ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e70	Four permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Hilde Magnusson from 9 February onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Torfinn Opheim from 9 February onwards and until further notice from the Socialist Left Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen from 10 February onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Truls Wickholm from 11 February to 4 March in order to take part in the International Visitor Leadership Programme, in the United States, after invitation Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Karin Yrvin, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Truls Wickholm, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: This application is processed and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: – For the county of Hordaland: Roald Aga Haug on 9 February and until further notice – For Oslo: Khalid Mahmood on 14 February to 1 March – For the county of Rogaland: Laila Thorsen on 9 February and until further notice – For the counties of Vestfold: Lars Egeland on 10 February and until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e139	Roald Aga Haug and Laila Thorsen are present and will take their seats. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e144	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e149	The President understands that there is another representative who will present the proposal on his behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e152	You have to thank me. On behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Torkil Åmland, Peter N. Myhre, Morten Høglund, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and myself – very popular proposal this here – I am pleased to promote a proposal for a representative on the state full funding of Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e159	The representative, Jon Hunter Gåsvatn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e162	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Per Arne Olsen and myself, I have been delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to gradually introduce a dental ceiling.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e167	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e181	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e195	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e211	The defence is a modern response defence, which has been marked by extensive change over the last ten years. The question that we have to ask ourselves is, have we followed up well enough in terms of defence personnel and competence structure? The ability to attract and develop skills will be one of the greatest challenges of defence in the years to come. Personnel and the administrative structure are largely developed for an invasion defence and are therefore not fully adapted to the competence needs of an intervention defence. The defence must have a human resources policy that enables us to recruit, retain and further develop both military and civil personnel with high motivation and appropriate competence, adapted to the needs and tasks of the defence. So what's the challenge as I see it now? First, a little bit about the command system. Is the current command system adapted to the needs of the response defense? In my opinion, it is obvious here that the departmental order system does not work according to the intentions. The purpose of the scheme was to provide the Defence Specialised Competence, Experience and Continuity at a lower/operational level to the organisation. At the same time, an age limit of 35 years was set with the possibility of three more years — as the upper limit of the departmental order. Then you have to leave the Defense. There is therefore no possibility of having a lifelong professional career as a departmental order. This special command, which I assume the defense needs, is then thrown out of the defense when it's at the top of the line of competence. It is in my opinion to waste resources and, in addition, to this group a poor human resources policy. The result of the scheme is that, for example: in the case of the army, the term of office is too short. In maritime and air defence, where age-independent competence is easier to identify, a particularly valuable critical technical professional competence is lost. My point is that we need to develop a horizontal career in a life-long perspective in Defence, or in a combination of providing educational bonuses as a transition to civil life halfway through a horizontal career. But in any case, I do not understand that the defense will not need many departmental orders in a lifelong employment relationship. In civil matters, I'm not familiar with that, for example. An aircraft technician who is 35 years old has to quit his job because he's too old. It is usually at this age that you really start to be at the top of your skills and experience. In summary, therefore, the problem of the departmental order system and the command system as a whole is that, in my opinion, it is not very appropriate to maintain what can be called age-independent competences, for example. in the case of technicians, economic personnel, logistics, administration, etc. Secondly, I ask questions about the rational backbone of the departmental order system – whether age-dependent competence is at all right. In my opinion, the measures that should be taken can be: we need to have a comprehensive revision of the command system. In the short term, it may also be appropriate to minimise the weakness of the current system. We need to set up plans and systems to ensure both horizontal and vertical running, and corresponding pay systems to ensure a horizontal career. Defence must continue to have attractive training facilities, the 35-year limit may have to go away, family policies need to be focused and working life needs to be made more flexible, a review of family measures to create a more flexible working day, and closer consideration should be given to the practice of annual management, which is to some extent a hindrance to the rational management of personnel. We also have other personnel groups in Defense, not just Command. I'll go a little bit into the situation around the crew. Defence spends a lot of resources on the education of branch ladders and sailors. Maximum and, exceptionally, three-year contracts may be awarded in the Defence Agency before they have to end. The situation today, as I understand it, is that many of these bring with them their competence and terminate the contract relationship in the defence before the first contract of three years has expired. On average, you end after two years, after I have been informed. This staff group is currently very important and is largely a supplier to the top end of the defence. Vervedet can be found in several disciplines – not just shooters and car drivers, but for example. aeronautical, maritime, commercial, pampering, etc. Here, the defense educates and loses a lot of technical and motivated personnel for the civil labour market. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether limitations in the total contract period give a signal about and facilitate that the HR does not have a future in the Defence. We must therefore also look at the improvement of the tools for the skilled crew, such as. providing opportunities for longer contract periods and improved compensation schemes, such as training compensation and bonuses, as an incentive to add and maintain important competences. To the extent that the defence believes that it is not appropriate to work as personnel who have been employed throughout their lives but have a civil career after a certain period of time, it is perhaps the positive original intentions of the principles that exist in today's command system, which should be added to this staff group. We're going to have to get back to that. I would also like to point out that the defence has another group that you can be very proud of. The defence is Norway's largest educational enterprise, with approx. 500 apprentices in 30 different disciplines at all times. It's impressive. In view of the longer-term exploitation of this knowledge and competence acquired by newly trained skilled workers, we should also look at how the defence can make greater use of this good resource. We don't know if it's a single and bad example, but renting the same people through a temporary agency or on shorter contracts than today will hardly help them stay in the Defense over time. Human beings are and will be the defence's most important resource. I look forward to how the Council of State now believes that he should ensure and maintain the necessary competence in the future defence, and not least what steps he sees fit to take to maintain qualified personnel in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e230	I would like to thank Mr Nordtun for a very good and important question. This is a field I have a lot of focus on, not least in working on a new long-term defence plan. The important concrete issues that the representative Nordtun now addressed will all be affected in this work, and it is part of a comprehensive commitment to the competence and knowledge of the defence. The tasks of the response defense have changed significantly since the current personnel and competence structures were developed for an invasion defence. The defence's tasks are becoming increasingly competence- and knowledge-intensive. Today, the defence personnel and their competence are the sharp end of the defence – as simple as it can actually be expressed. The fundamental change in defence we have seen in the last 12 years is one of the most successful changes in the public sector in Norway. Within truly advanced defence budgets, we have managed to get a lot more out of each defence crown. The conversion has taken place over three main phases. Firstly, we have implemented a concentration of the base and support activities that have given much more effect and much less unnecessary structure. Secondly, we have invested in a number of new platforms, sensors and weapon systems, such as new frigates, coastguard vessels, aircraft and helicopters, as well as modern equipment for the Army and Homeland Protection. The third axis is the one we are now taking seriously: to tackle the long-term strategic tasks related to modern human resources and competences. If we don't succeed in this, the structural choices and acquisitions make very little sense. The defense has a lot to be proud of and gets to a lot. The defence delivers day and night, year round, on its main task: monitoring, exercising authority and exercising sovereignty in Norway and contributing to NATO’s common defence. The training and training activities in Defence are now higher, both in 2011 and 2012, than in many years. It also strengthens competence. International recognition underpins this claim, which we harvest from Afghanistan, Libya and pirate hunting in the Gulf of Aden. We're not going to be blind to the positive. As you know, you don't build a house well enough by expecting only sunny days. If we are to ensure continued delivery, we need to invest more and more systematically in competence. The extent of the changes is reinforced by the fact that the technological change rate has been particularly high in Defence. In addition, demographic and other societal trends affect this sector. Competence requires and costs. It is therefore not possible to manage these personnel. We need to meet individual expectations and demands, develop and apply, think long-term and strategically – it is for officers, guardians, supervisors and departmental officers – not as an exceptional exersis, but as a normal situation. Otherwise, we are in danger of losing the competence that contributes to the delivery of the defence. We also know that people with a defence background are attractive in the civil labour market. The interpellant mentions, as an example, the specific challenges of maritime defence on the technical side. Securing personnel with technical competence is an important challenge for defence. It is well known in Norway, and it is not least good in offshore and many other maritime industries. We are happy about this, but of course it challenges us in the defence sector. In other countries, people are fighting for a safe job in the state – in Norway, business is attracting. We therefore have some specific challenges in this area. We are struggling with vacancies and under-continuity in some areas where we are not competitive in terms of pay and other conditions. On the maritime defence side, we have therefore taken concrete action. We have increased student production on technical lines at the Maritime War School. Staff are also recruited from civil technical/secondary technical/high school and from the civil labour market. The challenges in different areas of competence, such as: administration, we need to see if we have a proper balance between civil and military background in the personnel. In addition, we recruit too poorly from some parts of the population. We have considerable competence, but we're not sure how much it's used effectively. But I'm very proud, like the representative Nordtun, to be able to say that the defense is now the state business that recruits most apprentices. I would also like to mention that the defence recruitment profile has been added in recent years to the campaign we are now seeing in the newspapers: «For everything we have. And everything we are." This is a profile that focuses more on people and competences than on machines, and on values and purposes rather than exciting experiences. The development of competence will therefore form a particularly important part of the forthcoming long-term plan for the defence sector. It includes just these questions about departmental orders and servitude, and I want, in terms of that work, to draw attention to the fact that these challenges meet different parts of the defence differently. It is primarily in the Army that we see some special challenges related to the 35-year limit, which do not strike in exactly the same way in those parts of the Defence where the leakage of the civil sector is greater, and there is therefore a greater need to fill up with people who have come up through the departmental order system. Defence shall continue the development of more traditional human resources management to strategic management of human resources and will pay particular attention to management and governance. Personnel policy must be geared towards the future needs of the organisation for competence and knowledge. Right now, we need to make the best possible use of the human resources we already have. Educational activities are a high priority and should be better aligned with the requirements of good practice – both nationally and internationally. We need to organize a good family life. Women and men in service of Norway in international operations, as well as their closest ones, shall be confident that they will receive the follow-up they need in retrospect but also while serving. We need to address more challenges related to family and life-phase policies as part of the competence effort. So I want to say that we're good at recruiting good people, but it's a challenge if the defense recruits too much like people. Are we good enough to recruit minorities and people with different backgrounds? And it's a perfectly obvious problem that we're not good enough to recruit women. So I want to focus on it a little bit. In international contexts, Norway and other Nordic countries are particularly well targeted at statistics on female participation in the labour market. There is also a very important reason why our kind of country is doing better in the financial crisis than many others. It is simply that you get a better use of talent, a better use of the workforce and a better adaptability. This must also affect the defence in a way that is different from what we have previously stressed. There are fewer and fewer jobs in the defense that require that you go far with a heavy bag on your back. More and more defence positions require a high degree of system and overall understanding. The need for simultaneous capacity, the ability to have multiple thoughts in your head at the same time, increases sharply. Then I must almost as a man admit that it is beginning to become strange that we still have such a large surplus of men in the defense! [[Laughter]] Defence has some challenges in this area, including: water retention. We see that despite many measures, we recruit too poorly among women, and we are too little good at maintaining female competence. Now we are about to start summing up the experience of female parole duty, but if this is not enough, I believe that we need to re-open the debate on female parole duty. I'm not saying we're going to do it now, but I'm saying that it would have been normal to impose protective obligations on both sexes – the abnormal thing is to continue as today, we're living in 2012 – and that's what needs to be explained. The 1999 power and democracy investigation showed that, in particular, the Church, the police and the defence were following, but now the Church and the police have taken a lot of steps forward. We also have to take this over. I also want to mention the remuneration system. We have a payroll system that is not adapted to our time, our challenges and our response defense. To put it simply, you have a basic wage, and then you get a lot more when you actually do something. This is based on a time when you basically planned, practiced and trained something that usually didn't happen, and now we're in a situation where things actually happen. I have, together with the employee organisations, taken the initiative to look at this – not to reduce the total wage volume, but to look at how it is compounded. I think there will also be competitive and career positive effects in looking better at this. In the light of needs and objectives, the government wants to treat defence personnel and competences as a long-term strategic development theme – in a reform of competences. A pilot study has identified five key areas: competence organisation and strategic competence management the need to develop and apply the stock of competences needs-oriented structures, systems and processes strategic management interaction and exchange with civil society; As can be seen from this, I want to raise competence as an overall area of development for the defence sector. I don't think everything should be thrown over. I am rightly proud of much of what we have. But there is no evidence that the defence will be less competitive in the future. We have to take the consequences of this. The overall objectives and frameworks for competence management will be included in the proposal for a new long-term plan, but I also plan to present a more comprehensive strategy for the conversion of skills for the Storting in an appropriate form.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e293	Tore Nordtun, please – without bag, see the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e296	I would first of all like to thank the Minister of Defence for an excellent response to my interpellation. As the Minister of Defence explained, we have a number of challenges in the future in defence of the need for long-term and competence. I am very pleased that the Minister of Defense responded so positively to the various areas where we have challenges, not least the family problem and women's participation, and also in the recruitment of this group. This also applies to the perspective of the international, national and future challenges. So the response was good. The defence must have a personnel policy that enables us to recruit, retain and further develop both military and civil personnel with high motivation and competence, as I said earlier. Now I also see that the Minister of Defence here had a number of areas which he gave very high priority to, and which are general development projects now in the future, which go on staff, competence and overall. That the Minister of Defense will return to the Storting in an appropriate form, I think is very good. I also think it is right because this year we are going to adopt a long-term defence plan before we take a summer holiday in June. The fact that, in this context, we are getting personnel policy as high on the agenda as it looks at now, and as this government, with the Minister of Defence at the head, is drawing very well in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e305	I can only stress, as the representative Nordtun says, that this is very important, and in many ways it is the most important challenge we are now facing. As I said, the massive investment in new material and the extensive base structure conversion we have made makes sense only if we are able to address in a proper way the specific personnel challenges we face in our sector, in recognition of fierce competition against other sectors, which are also technology-intensive, and in the light of the fact that we live in a country where there is low unemployment and high demand for labour, that is quite the opposite of what most of my colleagues experience. It's very good for the country, but it's a special challenge for the defense. How we get a wide-ranging group of people to become apprentices, to be trained, to become a departmental order, to be an officer and to remain in Defense, and to give them the opportunity to have a good career in Defense in a way that is satisfactory to them, and also to give Defence the right benefits, is more important than ever. It's going to be essentially in this long-term plan and in the work we're going to do in extending it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e312	I want to start by giving some very overall perspectives on this debate. If you see the trends in society – just as the Minister of Defense said – we are in Norway within a period when the struggle for labour is raging. It is reinforced, inter alia, by: of the ageing population, but also because we in Norway are very successful in creating new jobs. There have been many more who have come to work. When we talked about working for everyone in the 1930s, we thought that every man would get a job when we talked about working for everyone in the 1970s, we thought that all women should have a job. When we talk about work to everyone today, it's a lot about everyone going with – right. So this has changed a lot. When we introduced a retirement pension in the population's population in 1967, there were 4.1 active persons per pensioner. In 2050, it's going to be 1.6 per pensioner. Despite record labour migration to Norway, the fight for labour will feed on the future. It's the reality that the Defense must also relate to. Then I think that being an attractive job, having a good working environment, focusing on developing skills, being able to compete for pay, being able to recruit from all over the population, thinking about creativity and being able to adapt, with a family policy that makes you an attractive employer, is becoming more and more important. In addition, just as both Tore Nordtun and the Minister of Defence say, the defence has changed significantly in recent years. The defence has become a competence organisation and is operational. It might also require a different kind of people than what we recruited before. In order to be able to recruit in the future, I believe that the defence needs to understand in a way what reality they live in, that the struggle for the labour force is eating up. Is the defense attractive enough to be able to recruit the people we need in the future? That's the big question. Then I am very happy that the Minister of Defense has discovered how important women are, and what qualities women have. There are still too few women in the defense, and personally I have to admit that when we had this up at the national meeting in the Labour Party four years ago – or two years ago, I don't remember – I voted in favour of female protection. I think it's one of the things that it's important to discuss, but of course we're going to get experience from the session duty. I am very pleased that Tore Nordtun places such great emphasis on what we can call the union workers in the defense. It's pointless – I think we all admit – that at the age of 35 you disappear or somehow get forced out, either to the War School, it's a road, an opportunity, or into the private business. I also think it is very important when the government is now going to present a new long-term plan for the defence, that we take this discussion and look at the whole system of departmental orders, and that we are able to take care of the defence professionals and the skills that they have been able to acquire, in a very good way. Then it's a challenge that the pay structure is so closely related to grade. It's also one of the things I think it's important to look at, because it leads to a defense that's too heavy – it's too many chiefs and too few Indians. It's a challenge we have to take seriously. Being a leader and being an employee in the defense we have today requires other qualities than what we needed ten years ago, and it is very important that we are able to compete for the labour force in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e329	First, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very topical topic. At the same time, it is with a certain interest that I record that it is the representative Nordtun, who comes from the Workers' Party and thus also one of the government parties, who has been sitting with the Minister of Defence for six years, who actually addresses this issue. For six years we have pointed out the problems of competence and personnel, and therefore it was all the more pleasant and with a very interest I heard what the Minister of Defence said. And I am very pleased that the Minister of Defence will now give priority to personnel. When the representative of Nordtun in his question refers to the lack of operational command, ship and weapon technicians by the Maritime Defence Department, it is something I pointed out the last time this was discussed. The Minister of Defence dismissed the problem at the time, even though those directly affected had focused on this issue when we visited Haakonsvern. But now, fortunately, it looks as if the Minister of Defense has got the same information as us, and is going to look at the challenges that the Maritime Defense, in particular, has. This also applies, as the Nordtun representative says, to the other defenses, so there's a need not just to think cut. Perhaps it is time to start giving priority to all the men and women who have actually chosen to safeguard Norway and Norwegian interests. It's hardly anything that's so expensive and so exhausting to an organization as ever reorganizations, and in the defense it's been big, very big, conversion processes in the last ten years. This is why it is important when recruiting young people to the Defence Agency that a long-term plan does not result in one reorganization after another. The youth opportunities in the Defence are many, and there is an offer that Norway can be very proud to offer to Norwegian youth. But as I said, this predictable framework also presupposes for those who choose these excellent offers. Otherwise, it is quick to wish away after the years of duty. As a result, the defence loses not only valuable competence but also the possibility of building up in the long term those who will constitute the core competence of the defence. There are also other challenges than this in the Norwegian defence that I hope the Minister of Defence will bring with him to the head of defence, now that they are working on the long-term plan. The first is, as we've heard here before, the Department Command, which doesn't exactly stimulate great Norwegian youth to stay in Defense, since they don't have a career after age 35. What kind of signals do you give to young people who want to be recruited? Well, you can get a job, but just until you're filled with 35 plus 3. If you choose to become an expert on e.g. Weapons systems, there is a relatively marginal need for such expertise in private business. At the same time you have to look after another job. Here, I think it might be wise to consider whether to change the departmental order system. The other thing you should be looking at is offering jobs to those who have been in foreign assignments. These are resource personnel who could be attracted to large exchanges in the recruitment and training of new soldiers. In the last edition of the Official Journal, there is an article dealing with personnel and competence, and there are two dimensions that are fundamental to the discussion of the competence of the defence sector: the justification or the existence of the defence and the timeless military core competence. These are both very important dimensions, and they are skills that cannot be compared and acquired elsewhere in society. If we are to have a strong, stable and competent defense, it does not help with the most modern in defence equipment. The most important resource in the Defence is its competent personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e348	Of course, the right-hand side shares Nordtun's concerns, we've been doing that for quite some time. For approx. two years ago, the Right promoted a proposal here in this Chamber asking for an overall review of the order system. This proposal was not adopted, unfortunately. But I have become a lot more optimistic today with the initiative of the inter-pellant and when I hear representatives from the government parties speaking as they do – and as strongly as they do, at the same time. The representative of Nordtun calls this a bad human resources policy. He's probably right about that. The representative, Laila Gustavsen, declares today's situation meaningless. That's why I think the Minister of Defense can have even bolder goals than what he says when he says he's planning to put forward a more comprehensive strategy on the personnel situation. I think the time is right now – also given that there is a large and broad political consensus that we cannot live on with today’s situation. Norway is in a situation where there is a shortage of labour for all practical purposes. So far, the greatest challenge for defence has been to be able to solve the problems financially, but we are seeing more and more that the challenge is equally high on the personnel side. The defense became more and more specialised, as the interpellant was inside. This means that there is an institution in an enormous transformation, where most sectors and departments require specialised personnel. In a situation where there is a demand for labour, where the defence personnel are significantly in demand, we now see examples of how we invest significant amounts of money in equipment, cf. ships that cost billions but that, due to the lack of professionally trained personnel, we are unable to man – and so be operational. This is a bad economy. I feel that we agree that this is something we have to do with. Therefore, it is commendable that the Council of State has the approach it takes to this issue. The personnel situation in the Defense is not mentioned in the Defence Chief's Military Professional Council. It is commendable that this thematics is affected in the year of Oslo Military Society. This may indicate that we are going to discuss this seriously in Stortinget. We cannot expect the defence organizations to be the drivers on this issue – far from it. If there are any who have believed it, they must have waited too long – and at least in vain. We have a departmental order situation that means that we no longer need to wait for more examples. These are staff who are well educated but who end when they are 26–27 years old. Who wants to take on a career where they know they'll be relieved when they're 35? Today, you work intensively to get people into the deal until they reach 35 years of age. The paradox is – usually – that when they're 35 years old, they're at the height of their careers, but then it's out and "wake me" as it's called in the skating language. I hope we now let words become action, and that the Stortinget gets a case about a comprehensive review of the personnel situation in the Defence. It's a good initiative the interpellant has taken. Now the ball – literally – is for follow-up in the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e365	In many debates it is important to remember the most primary, and the most important thing for the recruitment of the defence is the general duty of protection, that the defence can just recruit the best of the best in the whole year's coal. We still believe that in the Central Party it is absolutely essential that the defence has a broad recruitment base in the first place and further careers in the Norwegian defence. Let's not forget that, it's of great value for the defense recruitment. Then there is something I would like to say – I very much agree with the interpellant and also the Council of State, but I want to draw some thoughts as well. One concerning heavy duty defence personnel has taken on, not least in the last ten years. We have now been in continuous battle-like situations for ten years – not least the Army. There have been great demands for those who have been in such situations, but also for the families of those who have, for example: has been in Afghanistan on behalf of us for the last ten years. That's what we in the Center Party are concerned about. Now it's happened very well, and there's a completely different consciousness in the defense regarding the follow-up of the psychologist and the clergyman. You have good routines. But in the local environments where people are heavily affected, for example: of assignments such as those in Afghanistan, there is a special burden. What we have discussed before, and which may be a bit of a reflection in the case of pilot project Østerdalen, is how we can see the primary health service in the municipalities together with the services provided in the defence and state health services, that we can strengthen it extra in the defence-intensive areas. There is an extra strain on families – and in the school situation, where there are parents who have been sent out in this type of heavy, demanding and dangerous assignment, where there may be four to five students in a class who have a father or a mother who is in Afghanistan, and you have heard the news in the morning that it has gone off a bomb or that a soldier is injured. We have to have a consciousness around that. It is a great strength for the local environment to have heavy defence installations, but the school day and family life of the local environment are also marked by international events. There's a thought that you start talking about, but I think there's still a lot to go on here to enhance the competence of the normal health care system. Then there's one more thing that worries me a little – and I've also been in it before. Some of the soldiers who have been on this kind of heavy duty mission find it difficult to talk about mental problems in the defense system, because you're afraid that it might be hampering your career further. If a soldier tells a defense psychologist that he's struggling mentally, has a lot of nightmares and that kind of thing, he's afraid that it can do that later on, he won't be allowed to go on that kind of heavy mission. That's why I think an additional element for strengthening primary health services in heavy defence areas is that the soldiers who are unsure about using the defense's own apparatus can use the other public utility to get help, an auxiliaries who have special expertise in this area. When we're going to take the long-term plan, there's one thing we have to be sure of. It is that there should be a whole career in Defense, not as it has been, that if you talk to a defense kid, he can do all the dialects throughout Norway – that's clear it's a quality, but it can be a bit tiring too – but that it should be possible to live in e.g. The Østerdalen or Inner Troms as Fenrik and see that it is possible to run a full career in certain defence-intensive areas. That's why I think the development we have is right, because we have concentrated the defence heavier in certain areas, so that one, for example. in my area may go from being ensign to being Major General of Østerdal garrison. So one has possibilities. And then this could be the family base while you might have to serve in shorter periods elsewhere. The last thing I want to say, and where I think we also have a way to go, concerns the possibility of e.g. grenades and others recruited to take on-the-job training, to look at civil-military cooperation, to see how to use civil colleges, so that, in combination with a military career, you can get better education, and that is how you stand better equipped on the day you leave the military. Some of the assignments branched are not suitable for a 50-year-old. There must be possibilities afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e380	I am pleased with an interpellation debate that in and of itself is a natural part of the ongoing defence debate for the time being. When I choose the Air Force Station on Mågerø as the starting point for my post, it is because this station has a competence that is invaluable for the Norwegian defence. The station on Mågerø consists of three units, an operating quadron, the Air Force Control and Warning School and, in particular, the programming centre. I agree with the inter-pellant that there is reason to be concerned that substantial defence competence may be lost if the department – and later the Stortinget – follows the recommendations made by the head of defence in his defence study. As you know, the Defence Manager has proposed that the station at Mågerø in Tjøme and the station in Sørreisa should be closed and replaced by a new centre at Reitan in Bodø. Apart from the fact that the co-location of the air control stations of Retan will increase the vulnerability of the defence, it is reasonable to conclude that the current competence on Mågerø will hardly follow the Rethane. As far as I can judge, this will lead to the defence thus missing critical competence that cannot be immediately replaced, nor over time. In particular, this programming centre, which has developed a special competence that is useful not only for the Norwegian defence but actually for the entire NATO defence. It is not accidental that staff from Mågerø are still in service in other NATO countries. Last year, last year, CRC Mågerø was tested and got as the only unit in NATO's command and control chain excellent. When I pull out Mågerø, it's also because this station has a big impact on civil society. It is quite right, as the Minister of Defense pointed out, that the defence competes with civil society for recruitment and competence. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Defence in the restructuring that will now take place in Defence focuses on these areas. I also hope that he will look to some of the experiences we have gained in major restructurings of state activities elsewhere in society. I assume, for example, that if the Stortinget today, with the knowledge and experience we have gained, were to decide on the relocation of the Maritime Directorate from Oslo to Haugesund, we would at least have a completely different debate than we had at the time, precisely because we obviously underestimated the need for competence, and because it has its price over time to keep up with the acquired competence. It's a price that can actually be in the highest layer. Other institutions have also had similar experiences. The danger is that major shifts lead to loss of competence and that it always takes time to replace lost skills. So, of course, it's not said that we're not going to do any conversions, but it helps, as we know, to know the consequences of what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e398	The interpellant has received a lot of praise for having addressed this question. So I don't know if he can take any more. I believe it is important that in the work that Stortinget is going to do, to discuss the long-term plan of defence, we not only discuss battalions, squadrons and other physical devices, but that we also discuss the people of Defense as an organization, and that in the choices we make in the long-term plan of defense in the next few years, we also pay attention to what it will have to say in terms of personnel. In terms of the choices we make for the Home Guard, the battalion structure of the Brigade or for fighter aircraft bases, we choose one base or two bases, etc. – we must also have in mind what it means to say in terms of personnel, for defence employees. Officers are the most focused, but let's not forget the large number of civil servants in the Defense. And then a new moment: what does it have to say for the duty of protection and what kind of crews we need in Defense in time to come? It strikes me if a traveler and a visitor to the 2nd Battalion on Shield or the border guard in the garrison in South Varanger, or not to say if a person goes on board one of the new ships to the Maritime Defense, that there is an enormously advanced technical equipment the defense has today. It's clear that it takes a long time to educate those who are going to work on these systems. The Minister of Defence used the term ‘go a long way with heavy sacks’. It is clear that if it is the training, you have little to do with if you are going to handle this technologically advanced equipment. It also challenges the duty of protection as we now establish our defence. For – as I said – it is a very technologically advanced defence. If the training is to ‘go a long way with heavy sacks’, you have little to do with combating ‘cyber attack’, for example. My point is that we need to focus more on the people in Defense as organisations, civil servants, military employees and guardians, and we need to see the entire organisation of Defence personnel – what kind of people we need in the future – in connection with the discussion of the protection obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e409	My experience is that the representative Nordtun tolerates a lot of praise before he loses the ground contact, so he gets a bit of me too! It is nice that this issue is discussed not only in the future long-term plan and the upcoming big-time message or what it will be, but that we also take the discussion here. Let me just highlight some of the points that the representative Kristiansen made, and add some extra. First of all, the question of competence, which really applies throughout society, hits the defense with extra weight, and there are many reasons for it. One reason is that family patterns have changed completely from a few decades ago. Moving with the family where the one in the family is not going to work is an inconceivability nowadays. That means that thinking that you have to have the Defense occupied with how you connect jobs so that the other person, the spouse, too, should have work, is actually an important point. And so does the education system in Defense have some challenges. Today, those who start at the master's degree have largely rounded 50 years. That is, they have about ten years left of their career in defence, while they should perhaps have started earlier, so that the defence and society could have taken advantage of the competences they have, in a longer perspective, in a longer part of the time they work in defence. Then there are some challenges related to the departmental order system in particular. I think it's important to remember the background that it was introduced in its time. It was to fix a system that didn't work very well either. It was very heavy, and you had problems getting the system to work in an optimal way for the defense. Then you might have gone into the opposite ditch, where you find it difficult to keep personnel and skills over time in Defense. What's a pretty big challenge right now both for the Army and for the Maritime Defense, is that the average retirement age of the departmental order is 26–27 years. It's because you're in a election at the time: whether you're going to bet on five-six-seven more years in Defense and then start a civil career, or whether you're going to jump off then and start a civil career at an earlier and maybe easier time. It's a real challenge that you notice well, which makes it difficult to hold on to your skills. Then there's a combination of two relationships in terms of departmental order. One is to be able to get those who are departmental orders to stand as departmental orders until they're 35 years old. In addition, the challenge is to be able to create a system that makes those people actually stand even longer, that is, to change the system so that they stand longer, and thus retain the competence of the defense much longer. The general inspector of the Army has suggested that it would be helpful to employ about one third of the department's command in permanent posts. It would help in the gap of competence that is being experienced today. So there's actually two things about it: one is to get the department order to stand until they're 35 years old, and then it's to change the order so they can stand even further, because they're then at the height of their competence. Then there's one more aspect that affects the competence of the Defense, and that's what the Norwegian defense has been doing a lot over the last ten years, namely decommissioning in foreign operations, which is extremely valuable for learning in the Defence – it gives a competence in itself that's important. But the system is like, when you're going to send someone out, you often take the best and most experienced parts of a system, you plug it into a crew, which is then sent out. It has consequences for the training of those who are left. But the problem is also that when they come back and someone is going out the next time, there are largely others being picked and screwed together into a crew. So maybe you're not using the experience you have, well enough. There are several people who have argued that there seems to be a great political consensus here, and I fully agree with that. It seems that on the part of all parties there is a desire to make real changes that may affect the defence. But then one must also dry up to grips, dry to see past the debate that I think is sometimes paralysing the discussion a little, namely the question of what to call this – sub-office corps or special order, or other names. The most important thing is to make a change that means that we are able to attract and keep competent personnel in the Defense anymore. We depend on that, and it deserves those who choose a professional career in Defense. They're great craftsmen, they're great soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e426	I expect the representative Nordtun to be so robust that he can take a little more praise in a day like this. Although I have not heard the whole debate, I have no doubt that the issue as such is important. At the same time, it's tempting to say, is this an unknown problem? Is there something about the personnel situation in the Defence Department that has appeared now? I'm sorry, I refuse to believe that. I see that there are at least two former defence ministers present in the Chamber today, so the competence is great both among those who are debating and those who are listening to. Conversion is also no news in the Defence. Our challenge, together with the Minister of Defence and the Department, is to have arrangements that keep people safe, that we take care of the skills, and that we have the right man and the right woman in the right place in terms of the totality of defence. I think we're doing pretty well. If we look at feedback on the efforts of Norwegian soldiers in the Middle East, in Africa and in Afghanistan, to mention something, they are consistently positive. It is very rare that we in this room discuss critical feedback from allies or others that a bad job has been done. On the contrary, my experience is at least that what we are doing here is commending those who have done a job outside, on behalf of the nation of Norway. It says something about the quality, and it says something about the quality of the people who have been out doing the job. Our point is to make sure that it continues this way – to take care of the good, take care of the qualities we have in our systems, and make sure that it continues. I believe that one of the major challenges we have is to ensure that the status of the employees in the defence is respected – that is, those who are in uniform, or those who are civil servants, who others have been involved in before, because status is associated with something that is positive, and that is incredibly important. There are enough bad examples from other parts of society, where problems have gradually arisen because you have always felt that you have been employed in a part of the society that has been burdened. We can't have it that way in the defense. We can't afford it, either security or any other way. People are our main factor, so we have to make sure to give them opportunities – opportunities that the committee leader had in relation to further education. We have to take care of people, not just the individual, but the family of the individual, because it is the totality of the individual who contributes, which is important. If he or she feels safe for himself, for his or her family and relatives, it will be much easier to focus on his or her job. If you're worried about what's happening elsewhere than where you're serving, it creates an uncertainty that affects everyone in the long run. Then it also hits the defense as an institution. I believe that there is one more moment that may not have been affected to such an extent. It's the trust in the defense as an institution, that is, the reputational capital of the defense. We've discussed that here in the past. Unfortunately, sometimes there are discussions here on the total ability of the defence to solve things – the use of funds by the defence, feedback, for example. by the National Audit Office, asking questions about part of the arrangements made. Of course, this affects the leadership of the Ministry of Defence – the military management – but it also affects the individual who is employed there, who has a job in the Defence Department. I think one of the things that the Minister of Defence should be concerned with taking care of is to ensure a positive focus and a positive reputation of the Defense. Not least, the defence is a major competence developer. Many of the innovations that civil society is gradually gaining come largely through defence and defence research. Gradually, it is so accepted to take it into the civil part of society. So the key is again: personnel. Others have pointed out in the Defence for Change — whether defence and migration are in a way synonymous. I don't think we're gonna get out of it. A static defense I think will be a bad and sometimes weak defense. A defence in conversion is a necessity. That defence shall be a counterweight, amended and not static. Conversions will also be absolutely necessary in the future, but ultimately, people and personnel are the most important things we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e445	I think the debate in this interview has been good, and in my opinion it has been broad – not least the response the Minister of Defence gave, where he presented the perspectives and the power of action behind these things that are so unusually important. I think we're addressing this important debate at the right time. In connection with the long-term plan of defence, which we are now in the middle of, it is important to have this clear to us. The defense is facing an enormous transformation. In the past, there has been a lot of talk about the balls and the powder and what material you need, whether it's for boats, aircraft, etc., but now we're getting a lot stronger on the agenda of the staff who are going to serve this now and in the future. I think that's unusually important. We can't operate all of these things without having this in order. What I think the others who have taken part in the debate have brought in a good way is the perspective of family policy and equality – including women’s perspective – in Defence. I think it's very important to bring in now, so that we see the whole thing when we turn the individual things together. Then we have to take this with us if there's to be life to the future, and it has to! The defence and personnel are strong in the Norwegian population, and the fact that we want to invest in skills and look ahead is very important. I think that is the most important thing in the entire defence, namely that we have those foundations and reputations in order. The competition for future labour will be very central, including in the Defence. Defence will be very advanced and now has very advanced equipment. That's when competition, as I said, in relation to the civil market – to say it like that – is very advanced, and then we must not miss, we must be competitive. Then I would like to stress one thing at the end, and that was the Minister of Defence at the heart of it. It is that cooperation with defence organisations is unusually important in order to achieve this. I know the Minister for Defence believes that, but if we are to get this right and proper on the rails in the future – it is already on the rails – employees must be involved in all aspects, and that is also what we need to focus on in the further work we are doing. I say thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e460	I would like to begin by commending the Nordtun representative for having started a very good debate and thank you for very good input. There were a lot of input going in the same direction. I think it was well summed up, not least by the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, that it is important to remember why these arrangements were started. So it was the Bondevik II government, with Kristin Krohn Devold as Minister of Defence, who introduced the departmental order, and it was a right decision. It was not a bad decision, it was a right decision, because, as the representative Laila Gustavsen mentioned, the problem was that the old defense – the legacy of the cold war that had been slightly relocated over the 1990s – had very many chieftains, where the Indians were the others to be recruited. We couldn't have it that way. You had to do something about the career pattern. You couldn't have a career pattern where you had a lot of older people and very few younger people because there was no room for them. Something had to be done. Then we gather experiences. Some of those experiences are clearly very good, others are problematic. I also need to remind you – several have mentioned it – that there are two different issues related to the departmental order. One problem is that we lose them too early, and another problem is that we don't have room for them after 35 years. To put it bluntly, the first issue is particularly present in the Maritime Defense and Air Force and the last one particularly present in the Army. So we don't have to turn it into one problem. There are many different challenges with different types of responses. But we'll look at all of this, first in the long-term plan, and then when we come back with a deeper competence review. Then I would say that the concentration of the base business that we have now done, and that Battle Violence Vedum was also involved, has given completely new opportunities for long careers. The example of Østerdalen is very good. There can be a common sense of protection, one can be a branch, one can become a departmental order, one can become an officer, and one can become a boss in that area – career, family good, similar in Inner Troms, similar in Bergen for the Maritime Defense, similar in Sortland for the Coast Guard. And now when we get the chosen fighter base or base solution, we want a corresponding opportunity there. It is in itself a very important contribution to getting a more predictable career in Defence. I want to stress that there are many challenges, and many are pointed out. I agree with a lot of what has been pointed out. It's much better than it was. The defence shall be commended for a completely different attitude to the importance of competence. It's not like we're discovering it now. Again, the Elling's point is absolutely correct. We get a lot of good feedback, even when we compare with other countries. So we get something, but that's by no means a reason to get on the lat side and not bet on this. We've focused a lot on veteran issues. Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen as Minister of Defence did a lot there. Grete Faremo started a pilot study on personnel. I'll go on with this. Finally, Steinar Gullvåg spoke of Mågerø. I'll go there as soon as this debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e477	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e491	The purpose of the Patient Rights Act is, inter alia, to: increasing patients’ ability to co-destination and ensuring equal access to health services to the population. The introduction of the free choice of hospitals was a measure to achieve the objective of more equal treatment, to maintain respect for the patient and trust between the patient and the doctor and to reduce waiting time. The National Audit Office has examined the extent to which the authorities have achieved their objective for the free choice of hospitals. The study shows that the waiting time has been appreciably shortened since the introduction of a free choice of hospitals. The users of the scheme, who pay attention to shorter waiting times, will be able to do so. The system of free choice of hospitals thus helps to smooth out the individual and waiting time between hospitals and shorten the road to achieve the objective of the Patient Rights Act to ensure equal access to good health services, regardless of cows in the country. The study shows, however, a significant potential to reduce the gap in waiting times between hospitals by making several patients benefit from the free choice of hospitals. The system works better the more people who use it. There must be a goal of getting more patients to benefit from that system in order to reduce waiting time, both for themselves and for others. In its report, the National Audit Office has also looked at the users who benefit from the free choice of hospitals. There is an important element in the investigation. The Committee notes the importance of ensuring equal access to good health services irrespective of where a cage is located in the country. One of the objectives of the Patient Rights Act is that the law should help to ensure equal access to good quality health services for the population, not only regardless of how a cage, but also of age, gender, economic, cultural and linguistic background and social status. The National Audit Office's findings show that there are similarities in the background, education, income and employment of those who benefit from the free choice of hospitals, and those who do not. For example, a note that part of the scheme will be reduced the lower household income, and that only 20 pst. of those people who do not have training beyond the basic level, benefit from the scheme. Thus, the study shows that patients with high education and high income benefit more from the free choice of hospitals, and that when the indicators point downwards, one does not benefit from the free choice of hospitals and is given longer waiting time and thus poorer service quality. We cannot have such a structural inequality in social status when it comes to public health services. The Committee believes that these findings underline the need for more action to be taken to ensure that the healthcare system is more fully informed about the arrangements for its patients. The study shows that the most important factor in a patient’s exercising the right to choose a hospital is that the decision-maker informs about the scheme. Nearly half of the patients in the study were not informed by the decision-maker about the possibility of selecting hospitals, although many counsellors have been provided with information on how they can better disseminate that type of information. 71 pst. By the users of the scheme, this information was provided by their decision maker, while only 34 pst. of patients treated at their local hospital received information about the right to choose a hospital. A joint committee notes the Riksrevision's findings that the scheme will work better and that patients' rights will be better preserved if more benefits are obtained. It is not the responsibility of patients to obtain information about the offer alone. Health professionals, hospitals and caregivers have a significant responsibility to provide good and correct information on how the individual patient can use the scheme. The Ministry has sent out information to the decision-makers on their responsibilities to inform them of the scheme, but the Committee has nevertheless chosen to ask the Ministry to exert more pressure on those who have an obligation to provide information. When 45 pst. the determinations indicate that they rarely or never help the patient to find the hospital where the waiting time is shorter, and only every four indicate that the person often enters the information site to find the current treatment site, showing that there is a need to strengthen his or her information role, especially when such referral practices may help to reduce waiting times. When 9 pst. Of these, half of the users of the scheme are self-informed that there is a great potential for improvement here. The Committee is of the opinion that the Ministry should take action to ensure that more than one firm meets the requirement of the Patient Rights Act to contribute to the provision of additional information. The quality of patient treatment is the most important reason when patients choose the treatment site. However, on the Free Hospital Choice website.no information on the quality of the individual treatment is provided. The website provides information on the overall quality of hospitals. Both the users of the free choice system and the patients treated at their local hospital are very concerned about achieving good quality of treatment. In order to adapt to the needs of patients, it is important that authorities in the future develop quality indicators that clarify the quality of patient care itself. The Committee believes that the design of the Free Health Choice website.no must be user friendly at all times and that the site must contain adequate and targeted information that is easy to use for both patients and health professionals. The Committee believes that openness and the provision of information on the quality of health are important for users as a basis for the choice of healthcare provision. The Committee believes that the Ministry’s work on developing new quality indicators and publishing them has contributed to better results in this area – better than when the study was carried out. So that's progress, and that's good. The Committee looks forward to the notification of quality and patient safety. The Ministry has also said in its reply to the National Audit Office that the message will address tools to strengthen and further develop quality measurement work. Development and presentation of indicators for different purposes, including as a basis for the selection of hospitals, will be part of that work. There is good reason to believe that it will contribute to better information. The National Audit Office suggests that there is a difference between the expected waiting time being entered on the site and the actual waiting time. The Committee therefore looks forward to its project of comparing this relationship with the objective of presenting real waiting times for free hospital choice.no. There is a note in the configuration from the Committee's plurality, the members from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who deal with cancer patients. These parties think they should get better and more specific information on these websites. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party have not agreed on this, because we believe that one should focus on working widely to provide better, up-to-date, user-friendly and accessible information to all patient groups. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party have also referred to a Document 8 proposal, and I assume that they themselves will do well to do so. By doing so, I recommend the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e521	I have some comments to supplement the case rapporteur. The free choice of hospitals is a good arrangement. Both family members and I have made use of this system with good results. Last night I was told that a family member who needs surgery had been told that at the local hospital it would take eleven months before he came to treatment, while by switching to another hospital nearby he could get the surgery in two months. So this is how the scheme works in practice. It is a good system because it gives a certain degree of freedom of choice in cases where you do not have the full confidence in the local hospital, or can serve to exchange, quality or time. Societal economics is also sensible, as it can help people to solve their health problems more quickly and thus return to work more quickly. Now it's known that the Progress Party wants an even wider system than today's system. We want a system that also includes the private companies in the hospital industry, where the money follows the patient, whether a private or publicly owned hospital is chosen. This will help to solve the queues faster and break down the classed hospital system the red-green government has helped to develop. Recently, in a report in the media, I heard that the proportion that now had private health insurance had passed 300,000 people. This suggests that there is a significant crisis of confidence in the public hospital services in Norway. But this is another debate. As noted above, active use of the free-hospital selection scheme is important to shorten waiting times for treatment. I should perhaps also mention in a confession that it is of course important that the effectiveness of hospitals is good in order to reduce waiting times. But back to this with free hospital choice: information on the scheme is very central — from health companies, hospitals and hospitals. As far as hospitals and businesses are concerned, a central task is to ensure that the content and design of the information on the network is correct and that it is easily accessible. As far as decision-makers are concerned, they need to be more effective at informing their patients and helping them in this area. The National Audit Office's report shows that here are some doctors good, while others can do a better job. When 45 pst. by doctors admit that they rarely or never help patients in this field, we have a significant challenge, which needs to be taken seriously. Of course, it is also a challenge, as the rapporteur points out, with the gap in the use of the system, in terms of education and the economy. It is a gap that is worrying, and of course the Progress Party is also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e536	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and good statement on the matter – and the unanimous vote in the committee. It's like when we get sick and need health care, we're in a vulnerable situation, where we're given up a big and missing public health care system. Patient rights transfer power from the public system to patients. That is why the Right and the other bourgeois parties have fought for a number of new patient rights in the last two decades. Another important reason is that patients’ rights show that healthcare is available for patients and not vice versa. The left side has often been very sceptical about new patient rights and about transferring power from the system to patients. When the right to free hospital elections was introduced, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party had common comments expressing concern that this right would weaken the local hospitals. The right-hand side already concluded that the most important thing was that patients received help in a timely manner. Now we see that many local hospitals get patients outside their reception area, because they have short waiting time and good offers. This must be a better starting point for the development of local hospitals than for patients to be forced into long queues to secure the hospital's order reserve. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that the right to free hospital choice has led to shorter waiting times, in line with the objective of the scheme. This will allow more patients to receive health care when they need it. At the same time, we see that the system can be improved on several points. A small number of fixed doctors account for a large proportion of the references to free hospital choice. Patients who have appointment to provide good information about the plan have shorter waiting time than others. This shows that we need to make sure that more decision-makers guide patients about this possibility. But it is equally important that hospitals themselves provide the right information about the right to free hospital choice. The National Audit Office has repeatedly pointed out systematic failure in the practice of patients’ rights by hospitals. It concerns information on the rights, setting a deadline, and information on the right to treatment in other hospitals in the event of a breach of time. It is obvious that healthcare businesses have a significant potential for improvement in ensuring the legal certainty of patients. This is about the fundamental respect for the patient’s right to treatment in a timely manner, regardless of the capacity of the hospital in question. Better information from permanent doctors and hospitals is also important in order to ensure an equal opportunity for all to use free choice of hospitals — and thus to get faster health care. The waiting time should not be determined by the resources of patients to familiarise themselves with the rights and opportunities that exist. In order for patient rights to be real, information on waiting times must also reflect reality. The National Audit Office points out that waiting times are not always up-to-date and correct. This leads to patients being misled, rather than being guided by the possibilities for prompt treatment. For a long time, the right has provided better and more accurate information, including on expected waiting times, for example: for cancer patients. For those affected by a serious illness, it is essential to know when you can expect help. Information on historical waiting times is currently available, not expected waiting times. The right is looking for measures to ensure that several patients have a real opportunity to use free hospital choice so that they can receive rapid treatment in the event of a disease. We have proposed extending the scheme to professionally approved private services. It is a paradox that health cows are increasing and waiting times are long, while many private offers have free capacity. In fact, under the red-green government we see a growing class distinction between those who can buy quick help and those who can't afford it. An extended right to free hospital choice will ensure that everyone can get faster help, regardless of financial resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e557	The National Audit Office’s examination of the free-hospital selection scheme shows that the scheme has contributed to the smoothing of waiting times between hospitals. Therefore, the free choice system is a good system, which, by increasing use, gives us a great potential for further reducing the waiting times in the healthcare system. The vast majority of patients who benefit from the scheme do well to be treated in a public hospital in the same health area. I therefore disagree with the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, who said that there should be a crisis of confidence in public health. A majority of patients were treated at their local hospital, and the three main reasons for this were that waiting times were acceptable, closeness to family and friends and good experience with previous treatment. Most people who use the right to free choice of hospitals consider that achieving good quality is the most important reason. The report also shows that patients with high education and income benefit more from the free choice of hospitals and, as mentioned before by several, that the fixed assets are not good enough to inform the patient about the free choice of hospitals and their benefits. The hospitals don't have enough routines to make the system known, and they don't ask patients enough to use the system. The study by the National Audit Office provides a number of good measures to improve the functioning of the free choice of hospitals and to provide a real system for several patient groups. Here one port function is defined. It is also important that the Free Hospital choice site.no is improved with new quality information and more real waiting list information. Recently, there has been a great debate in the media about the increase in private health insurance. The waiting lists in the public health system are hereafter a cause of the explosion we've seen. Several parties on the right-hand side believe that the development of the private health care system is the solution to bring down the waiting lists and reduce the market for such insurance. The National Audit Office’s report shows that there is a large potential to reduce public waiting lists by increasing the use of the free choice of hospitals, and that increased use of the scheme could contribute to the overall utilisation of the capacity of the specialist services. Norway has a challenge that we have relatively large social health differences, despite being a country with a well-developed health system. There are great variations in life expectancy only within Oslo Municipality's borders. Health variations are also correlated with education and the economy. For this reason, the information presented in the study should be taken into account, that it is the most resource-intensive patients with the highest level of education and income who currently use the scheme most, and who may experience shorter waiting times for treatment, and perhaps better quality. It may violate the principle of ensuring equal access for all to good health services. There is also reason to note that the large majority today are well treated in the nearest hospital. Although the scheme is better known and more used, I believe that the vast majority of patients will also in future be treated in the nearest hospital with the necessary competence. So there's some kind of delimitation in the system. It is therefore important to continue the work of securing good quality and acceptable waiting lists in all hospitals in Norway. One last point that is not mentioned in the setting, but as we know is a reality, is that the oldest patients may be informed no matter how well they are informed that they have a right to travel away for treatment, not consider this an alternative. The oldest and perhaps the sickest of us want to be treated in the nearest hospital. So the free choice of hospitals is a good system that can improve. It can contribute to increased capacity in the healthcare sector. But it is important to be aware that the system also represents differences in the extent to which it benefits, which correlates with social health differences, and that we are then aware that for some patient groups, free hospital choices will have no great value, nor in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e583	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e586	The representative Toppe believes that we do not have a trust crisis in Norwegian health care when 300 000 have purchased private insurance and use private hospitals – an increase of an estimated 100 000 only in the last few years. I wonder where the representative Toppe sets the limit that it can be regarded as a crisis of confidence? When you reach 400,000 or 800,000, can you say that we have a crisis of confidence? Some people would say that as we get closer to 10 pst. by the population, or 8 pst. by the population, there is a significant distrust of Norwegian hospitals. As a question No. 2: Does the representative not see the social challenges of this, by getting a clear class distinction by buying better health services than others?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e595	That there are many people who buy private health insurance, we are very concerned about, and that there is a need for private health insurance, a job must be done to get away. So it is that even those who have private health insurance benefit greatly from public health insurance. After all, the solution is not to build up a private health system. The report we are discussing today shows that we have a great potential in public health to bring down the waiting lists. The fact that those who use the free choice of hospitals – in fact the large, large majority – are using a different offer in the public health system, I think, shows that we do not have any confidence crisis in the public health system in Norway. We're going to improve it, and there's too long waiting lists in some areas, but we have a good health care system in Norway that doesn't stop the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e602	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e605	Free Hospital Choice is an important patient right that the Christian People's Party has been and fights for. Our expectation has been that such a right should provide patients with faster treatment. The National Audit Office’s report shows that the scheme contributes to a reduction in waiting time. At the same time, the report also shows that there is a high potential to reduce the waiting time for several patients if more people are using the free hospital choice scheme. This would also make better use of the capacity of hospitals. Many suggest that the information to patients about the possibilities of choosing an offer elsewhere than where they naturally belong is not good enough. Some patients also do not have the power to seek out the alternatives themselves. Unfortunately, there are still people who do not have access to the Internet. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the study shows that patients with high education and household income use the free choice of hospitals to a greater extent than patients with lower household income and low education. An important objective of healthcare is equal access to good quality healthcare regardless of age, gender and place of residence and economic, cultural and linguistic background. This underlines the need for healthcare to provide patients with good information and to help find alternative treatment sites. Good information on the system of free hospital choice, waiting times and quality, etc. is responsible for both the prescriber, the health undertakings and the authorities. The study shows that the main factor for a patient to use the right to choose a hospital is that the decision-maker informs about the scheme. It is therefore of great importance that decision-makers also be briefed on the importance of their information in this context. It shall not be necessary for the patient himself to have to ask for such information at all times. Many patients will probably also depend on the decision-makers’ guidance to choose the right hospital for both waiting time and quality. Health institutions also have an obligation to provide patients with information. Although information on the right to choose is provided, there will be insufficient information for many. There is also a need to know something about waiting time in other hospitals. It should also be obvious that hospitals briefed that the entitlement status and deadline for health care apply even if another hospital is selected. Information should also be provided on whether the processing period can be met. The National Audit Office points out in the report that the information on the Free Hospital Choice website.no only provides information on the expected waiting time for the least-priority patients. This means that some patients with the right to necessary health care do not see the possibility of reducing waiting time. The National Audit Office also points out that the quality information is not up-to-date. Overall, the Riksrevision concludes that the information on the website needs to be improved in order to give patients a better basis for making their decision. This is fully in agreement with the Christian People's Party. The website must provide both good and relevant information and be easy to use for both patients and health professionals. For cancer patients, waiting time is a big stress and can also be crucial for life or death for the patient. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that it is important that cancer patients in particular be informed of the expected waiting time for treatment on the Web site. It is also necessary to publish the waiting time for private X-rays and other private contracts providing diagnostics and necessary health care. Like the rapporteur, who gave a good account of the content of the matter, I also look forward to getting the report on quality and patient safety to the Stortinget. I think we have an important debate then and an important follow-up to the National Audit Office's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e625	As many people before me have been involved, this report has demonstrated that there is a high potential for reduced waiting times when the free-hospital selection system is used more extensively. The simple fact is that the waiting time in the study is shorter for the scheme users, those who have actively chosen a hospital, than for patients treated by their referenced hospital. That means 70 pst. the users have waited shorter than those who followed only the referenced offer. The 30 pst. by the users of the scheme who had a little longer waiting time, it had because they had put emphasis on other aspects than quick treatment, namely what they perceived as a better adapted offer, where they had heard about the quality and thus found more reassuring. At the same time as a majority of users achieve faster treatment, the study also shows — interestingly enough — that there were no displaced patients who would otherwise be believed to be in competition with their local hospital, which was an objection when the scheme was discussed in due time. In this way, we can say that the right to free hospital choice has met the expectations of the Grand Duchy in 1999, when the reform was adopted. There is hardly any health reform that has been in the vicinity of fulfilling as many of the good intentions that the Stortinget has had, as precisely this right to free hospital choice. Greater patient involvement, faster treatments, shorter queues and not just their redistribution. All of this is something the specialist health service, with over a quarter of a million people in health queues, should value. Nevertheless, the free-hospital system has never been particularly enthusiastically received by state health companies, by central health authorities and, I dare say, not by the department under this management either. The system has been for patients with particular interest in their situation and with education and other resources to do something about it – which some other speakers have also been involved in. In addition, I can say that I have specific examples from hospitals that have also felt competition because of the freedom of choice of patients they feel they own and have found treatment after the patient has suggested that they should use the freedom of choice and apply to another hospital. It simply means that this patient who used his freedom of choice did not meet it at another hospital, but moved forward in line at the ordinary hospital to the detriment of another patient, who, unaware of this, did not move forward in the queue. This is one of many symptoms that state health businesses do not see fit to inform or otherwise contribute to the overall capacity of specialist health services being better and more fully exploited. With today's system, we can offer places to patients who choose them actively, in non-governmental hospitals that have an agreement with a regional health company, after the deadline set for the treatment of the individual patient. However, these hospitals also still report delays, obstructions and, in the worst cases, countermeasures. I think the ministry should be very interested in whether the scheme is being complied with after the intention. From this point of view, it is significant that there is a follow-up by the Riksrevision that causes Stortingen to get a case on how the right to choose a hospital has developed freely. The work of the National Audit Office on an area will, by its very nature, be directed towards the past, but in response to the report by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, there is little evidence that the free choice of hospitals will be stronger and underlined as an opportunity for patients. It is particularly interesting when the department says on page 15, at the bottom of the first column: ‘The Ministry considers that the recommended deadline in the prioritisation guides cannot be easily compared with the statutory right established by the Patient Rights Act and the priority provision. Prioritisation guides contain recommendations at group level, while the Patient Rights Act and the Prioritisation Regulation deal with individual patients’ rights. Individual circumstances may therefore indicate that the right status and/or period will be different for the patient concerned than for the condition group to which the patient belongs.’ This means – translated into daily Norwegian – that there is no need to inform about alternative treatment sites as long as what is considered to be recommended from a medical point of view has been overlooked. It is believed that the Patient Rights Act should be effective only when it becomes dangerous. I think it's too defensive. This shows, in my opinion, that the ministry believes that the free hospital choice system is something that should occur if a lack of treatment is in the process of exceeding a patient’s level of safety. I would like to say again that this is at the limit of a reluctant attitude towards free hospital choice as an idea. There is nothing wrong with the fact that we can already inform ourselves today that other hospitals have an offer for the patient concerned already at the time when the patient is found to meet the criteria for entitlement to health care. There is no reason to maintain the practice whereby this information comes only when the time-limit is a fact. I also dare to remember that in this room a proposal was voted down, Document 8:158 S for 2010–2011, from Bent Höie, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself. Otherwise, these good ideas, about past information in the course of the disease, have not recovered in the department under current management. If you think a little further, there is nothing wrong with the fact that from the system that patients can first choose freely between the country’s hospitals as a subsidiary system, you can also imagine that it was introduced as a primary scheme – a system in which all hospitals that satisfied approved requirements could participate and offer offers that patients could inform themselves about before they became too poor and too weakened to enjoy such a right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e654	I think there have been many interesting articles in this debate, but I have to say that I did not quite know myself in the last article. Because I would like to stress very strongly that free hospital choice is an important patient right. The national audit also shows that 70 pst. of those using the free hospital choice scheme, expected to be shorter than patients receiving the same type of treatment at the local hospital as they belonged to. And those who used the system also did not replace similar patients at the hospital they chose as a treatment site. This means that resources are better used. Against this background, the Riksrevision believes that the free-hospital selection scheme helps to balance the waiting times between hospitals. They also believe that there is a potential to reduce waiting times if several patients use the free choice system, as many have also experienced. The National Audit Office points out that more active information to patients could help reconcile the objectives of increased participation and equal access to healthcare. The government is busy reducing the waiting time for specialist health services. In the 2012 Regional Health Enterprise Mission Document, this is an objective. Increased use of the free hospital choice scheme is one of several instruments that can help reduce waiting times. The Free Hospital Choice Information Service was established in 2003. The service consists of a free telephone service and the free hospital selection.no website. By calling or going online, patients can be informed about the expected waiting time for more than 100 treatment types and some quality objectives. The information service is evolving and new information is to be made available. Among other things, the Health Directorate is working on a project where they compare the expected waiting time with the actual waiting time. The goal is to spend real waiting time at frisy hospital choice.no. Several new quality indicators have been published in 2011. This work shall continue. We need to strengthen and further develop methods to measure quality for different purposes, including: quality objectives that can be used as a basis for choosing a hospital. Knowledge and transparency about quality will be a central theme of the Quality and Patient Safety paper, which I will present later this year. The National Audit Office found that there are similarities in background, education, income and relation to employment among those using free hospital choice. Similarly, there are also similarities among them that do not make use of the scheme. The Committee considers that these findings underline the need to include measures in healthcare, so that patients are better informed about the scheme. I agree that good information is an important prerequisite for everyone to be able to use the scheme – not just those resources that know how to find out. As discussed by the rapporteur, different groups of users are using the telephone service and the website. Some users prefer the telephone service and some prefer the website, so we need to maintain both offers. However, it is important to be aware that equal access to information does not necessarily result in greater equality in the use of the scheme. The data from the National Audit Office also show that a majority of patients were treated at their local hospital. There were three reasons that pointed out: that the waiting period was acceptable, that the hospital was close to friends and family, and that the patient had good experience with the hospital from before. The most important thing is to ensure that the information reaches all, so that everyone is given the opportunity to choose where to process it. Then it must be up to the individual patient whether they choose the local hospital or another hospital. Many in the debate have stressed the responsibility of the decision-makers in this context. The decision-maker is a central advisor when choosing the patient’s hospital. The ministry has been clearly identified in circulars and letters. In a draft decree, which is being consulted on 22 March, we have proposed that the decision-maker should be obliged to inform the patient about the free hospital choice scheme and where he can obtain further information. It is underlined in the consultation note that the decision-maker is not expected to assist the patient in choosing a specific hospital. We have sent information material about the scheme to all of the permanent clinics and encouraged the doctors to distribute it to the patients. I have recently had business meetings with regional health companies. In these meetings I referred to the National Audit Office's examination of the system of free hospital choice. I asked regional health companies to put in place measures to ensure that everyone was given information and guidance on the scheme. I pointed out that such information should be provided at the same time that the patient is told when they have an hour in the specialist healthcare service. In this way, from the outset, the patient is provided with a basis for assessing whether it may be appropriate to use the free choice of hospitals. This requirement is in addition to the previous requirement that hospitals should use the templates for letters of reply prepared by the Health Directorate. In these templates, there is a separate point on what kind of information health care providers are obliged to provide, and one of the points is just information about the free choice of hospitals. The majority of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party and the Left want the hospital to publish how long waiting for cancer patients to expect. They will also publish waiting time for private X-rays and other private providers who have an agreement with a regional health company. A person diagnosed with cancer is a priority patient. We've set the target at 80 pst. of these patients should receive treatment within 20 working days. We follow this goal through claims in the mission document, and by documenting how many people actually receive treatment within 20 working days. We started by measuring this for three cancers in 2011. In my view, it is not appropriate to publish the expected waiting time for cancer patients. The reason is that the system of free hospital choice shows the maximum expected waiting time for the lowest priority patients. A cancer patient is a priority patient. We follow the number of cancer patients who actually receive treatment within 20 days, and this is more useful information for a cancer patient than expected waiting time. All of these results will be published. With regard to the waiting time for the private X-ray institute, I have asked regional health companies to facilitate public policy and private X-ray institutes to report waiting times to the Norwegian patient registry. Regional health establishments shall also ensure that the private X-ray institute that will have a contract must publish the expected waiting time for patients who do not have the right to necessary health care in accordance with the priority regulation. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Directorate-General for Health has carried out several information campaigns, by 2010, on the free choice of hospitals and on the information service for the free choice of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e687	Fortunately, the Council of State in its intervention was concerned with the importance of information. That is why my question is precisely when this information should occur. My question to the Council of State is whether she could expect to advance the time when the patient is informed about the right to free hospital choice, for example. to include a clarification in the regulation of the Patient Rights Act § 2-1, such as: could be expected to provide the patient with information on options for other treatment sites and times at the same time as setting an individual treatment deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e692	It may be appropriate to include it in the Patient Rights Act, but I would think that for the individual patient it is not the law they go into directly. It is much more important to get information when you are told that you have an hour or should have a treatment in the specialist health service. Then I believe that the decision-maker – which many people have been involved in – is a key point, and, of course, also that hospitals, when they consider that a patient should have a treatment, must immediately inform when the patient is given an hour, that the free hospital choice system exists, that the patient's choice is the scheme, and that the waiting time may be shorter than at the nearest hospital. I want to stress, patient – I'm sorry, President! It was probably a Freudian talk! [[Laughter]] I would like to stress that I am very concerned that all patients should receive treatment as soon as they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e699	All patients should receive help, including the president when he is a patient! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e717	Yesterday the Evening Paper wrote that the government is going to sea. In the transferred sense, it's a signal that we appreciate. Interpellant has noticed that two days ago the Council of State sent out a press release inviting cooperation on a strategy for short sea shipping. This press release states that the State is occupying important parts of the instrument. I hope that the Council of State today will present some plans for the use of these instruments. There is a large political consensus on the transfer of more goods from road to rail and sea. However, such a transfer requires a modern and efficient logistical hub, which ensures direct trans-shipment between trains, cars and ships. What measures will the government take to ensure the establishment of Norwegian ports as an efficient and multimodal logistics hub? Norway is a country with strong maritime traditions. Our long-distance coast has ensured that generations of Norwegians have used rowing boats, yachts, sailboats and steamships to get the goods in time. Our experience in maritime transport will continue to be crucial in order to ensure an environmentally friendly, modern and efficient transport system. Population growth, rising living standards and an increasingly international business life have given us an increased need for transport of both persons and goods. Forecasts show that Norway can face a two-thirds increase in the volume of goods in the years to come by 2040. We must therefore facilitate a transport structure that can cope with this increase. The roads alone will not be able to meet this need; they are already congested today. Increased rail and maritime transport will be both economic and socio-economical. However, today there are several administrative and organisational obstacles to the rapid and effective implementation of such a maritime transport effort. As an example of this, I will mention the organisation of Norwegian ports. There are three main categories of ports: fishing ports, traffic ports and industrial ports. The first two are municipal or state owned. The industrial ports are usually private. Due to lack of money, local and private port owners rarely have the opportunity to implement the large port and terminal extensions necessary to create a modern logistics hub where goods can be moved from road to sea. This is a classic example of market failure. Central infrastructure such as: Advanced intermodal ports are common to many in society. However, it is not always profitable for each actor to develop on his own. Such underinvestment makes maritime transport difficult to compete with road transport. Complicated organisation is one of the reasons for underinvestment in Norwegian ports. Ports are governed by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department and the Coastal Administration. The coastal works manage coastal fees and charges and plan fairways. On the other hand, fees and charges linked to the activities at each port are a municipal matter. In addition, the Ministry of Industry and the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs also have a strong influence on the performance of maritime transport. The other transport and logistics planning takes place in the Ministry of Transport, the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency and Avinor. It is difficult to see how a targeted and long-term port development policy could grow out of such an uncertain structure. The amalgamation of directorates, departments and departments hinders the development of domestic maritime transport. An example of how bad things can happen is the Railway Agency’s proposal to build a new freight terminal far out in the country outside Trondheim. Right wants to promote a good and complete infrastructure. In the context of the 2011 State Budget, the Right proposed setting up a separate reward scheme to give municipalities strong incentives to invest in flexible transport solutions. Our system would have led to more active arrangements for intermodal solutions for both passengers and freight. The present logistics challenge is not adequately addressed in the national transport plan. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what she intends to do in the preparation of the new National Transport Plan to ensure cooperation between departments and departments, in order to establish an overall approach to the establishment of an effective logistics hub during the next planning period. Work on the national transport plan often argues that ports are a municipal matter and therefore cannot be given priority in the national plan. I don't think we can always expect municipalities and individuals or agencies to be able to assume the primary responsibility for the development of national transhipment nodes. Local authorities often have a regional perspective on industrial development and will not always be able to define the optimal location of a national focal point. This should be guided by overall national assessments that provide a clear direction of development. This is how we can ensure that we create relevant trans-shipment facilities with a geographical location and traffic frequency that makes it cost-effective and time-efficient to use sea and track ahead of road. A number of our companies today choose to drive their goods by truck to Gothenburg because it is a modern port with many boat calls, including to overseas ports. Many goods we import are recharged to a car in Rotterdam, Hamburg or Gothenburg because there are no proper ships at the right port at the right time that can lead the goods to Norway. There are often very small margins that determine whether private operators choose sea or road. What requirements will collectors set for tomorrow's multimodal logistics hub and terminals? Yes, here it is commendable that the Council of State has taken the initiative to cooperate with the actors, which is very important. According to the National Association of Logistics and Transport Industries, the correct geographical location of such multimodal hub is the main success factor. Norway has a relatively low population, but large geographical distances. A collection of volumes of logistics is therefore necessary in order to achieve lower environmental costs and the necessary economies of scale for both imports, exports and domestic transport. By establishing a regional multimodal hub, industry will have lower costs through better use of terminal and distribution equipment, common to all modes of transport inwards and outwards. There has been a boom in the logistics industry in the last 20 years. Today, the market is dominated by 15-20 global companies that own ships, aircraft and trucks on all continents of the world. At the same time, consolidation is taking place on the product-owner side, which means that decisions on the flow of goods are increasingly being taken beyond the borders of Norway. Freight transporters are little concerned with Norwegian domestic policy considerations, but choose the most reasonable transport route, regardless of our political objectives for more goods by sea and by rail. It is we, as politicians, who have to create the assumptions that increase the use of seas and ports as a freight transport route. It has been a national objective for several years to transfer goods from track to sea. The right-hand side ends up whole-hearted about this goal. However, the government has little followed up with concrete actions or offered proper incentives to the transport sector. Although government charges have been somewhat reduced, charges represent a much higher share of the total cost of maritime transport than for road and rail transport. In practice, the competitiveness of lorries transporters is improved by the continuous development of the main road network, which has resulted in a high growth in the transport of food by road. We must match this rate of expansion by strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport. The right considers that efficient and modern ports are the key to the competitiveness of maritime transport. An efficient and modern port is linked to other transport chains, i.e. the connecting point between sea, track and road. It is therefore a key challenge to achieve a targeted, agreed and long-term policy for the development of ports as an effective logistics hub in today’s inconclusive structure. All regions need a strong freight hub which can concentrate the goods in the region so that they can be transferred to sea and track for the long stages of transport. This can only happen within a port. It is more demanding to develop a comprehensive plan for a logistical node than to increase the capacity of each mode of transport. However, there is no time to lose in planning and implementing a strategic approach of this type of regional development. Areas around the big cities are becoming increasingly attractive for other purposes, and marine areas are scarce where both protection and recreational and recreational interests are strong. Population growth and increasing requirements for soil protection will make it extremely difficult to implement plans for overall logistical nodes in 20 to 30 years. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on the solutions that she will choose for measures to promote the most effective implementation of the objective of more goods at sea, given the municipal direct and indirect jurisdiction over ports and areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e768	The interpellant addresses an important issue in the field of transport. I would like to begin by stating that maritime transport is a very important and a very well-functioning part of the Norwegian transport system, both domestically and abroad. The fact that maritime transport is actually well-functioning is also important in all discussions on transport and transport – simply because this quality feature has been under-communicated for quite a long time. We must not contribute to talking down maritime transport, and we must not forget that ships domestically carry out about 45 pst. of the total transport work and that maritime transport is fully dominant in foreign trade. The point is that the seaway can carry more. That's good for the climate, that's good for the roads, that's loaded with less transport, and that's good for the business world. As the interpellant is in progress, projections up to 2040 show that both cargo by ship and cargo by truck will increase, but road transport will increase relatively more than maritime transport. In order to achieve the objectives of better environment and better accessibility in the Norwegian transport network, the government will therefore pursue a policy that will help maximise the growth of long-distance transport. The key issues are how much goods can be transferred from road to sea, and not least what is needed to make maritime transport more attractive, so that market share increases. Geography, housing, consumption patterns, industrial structure and infrastructure are factors which, of course, have a significant impact on the choice of transport mode. The interfaces between modes of transport are relatively limited. It is also important to bear in mind that investment in one of the transport sectors, for example: a four-field road will necessarily affect the demand for other transport solutions on the same route. Analyses show that about 15 million. tonnes of goods currently carried by lorry can be transferred from road to sea and rail. Measured in tonnes, this constitutes 5 pst. of all cargo by road. Measured in transport work, i.e. however, the product of journey length and the quantity of goods transported constitutes 25 pst. by road transport. It shows that the transmission potential is primarily on the longer distances. That's why some of this volume we first have to focus on getting hold of. This is the potential, and this is the challenge. The government has invested in maritime transport and in improving the conditions of maritime transport, and it has been a necessary priority. The red-green government has therefore exceeded the financial framework for maritime transport and infrastructure set up by Bondevik II in the national transport plan for 2006-2015. The government has increased the national transport plan framework for 2010–2019 by 100 billion. kr – an increase of 45 pst. compared to the previous transport plan. The government has thus increased the framework for maritime transport and infrastructure by 77 pst. during the period. In the case of Norwegian industry, the choice of transport mode takes place, inter alia: on freight costs. Many have pointed out that maritime transport is not competitive because the level of user financing is higher for maritime transport than for other modes of transport. The government takes this signal seriously and has therefore done a lot to improve the competitive situation. The national transport plan provides for relief from the 115 million user charge for maritime transport. kr by abolishing the coastal charge and the ISPS charge. In the 2010 state budget, the ISPS tax was removed – it was approximately. Fifteen million. kr. Coastal charges have been reduced from 34 pst. to 10 pst. In total, charges have been reduced by nearly 90 million. NOK 3 years. With the 2012 draft budget, the government is well on track to follow up its National Transport Plan for 2010–2019 in the field of maritime transport. After three years of the planning period, the follow-up rate is 70 pst. The government will continue to look at the framework conditions, and I will also focus on improving the efficiency of the services offered by the Coastal Agency. The Government has decided to set up a public body of representatives from different actors to carry out a broad review of the unloading service and legislation. This sample is scheduled to give its NOU towards the end of the year, and we are now fully in the final phase of compiling the sample. This NOU will be an important and central input into the government’s efforts to further develop the pilot service for a forward-looking, cost-effective and user-friendly service that continues to safeguard safety and the environment. It is also that the choice of transport mode is not just about freight costs. Time is often equally important. If we are to strengthen maritime transport, we need to invest in combined transport services with efficient transhipment between modes of transport. The national transport plan is essential for such coordination and the most important tool of the government is to coordinate action and action in the field of transport. I would also like to bring forward the new Port and Water Law, which opens up new opportunities and solutions in the port sector and allows ports to develop as an efficient logistics hub. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is well in the process of implementing the next transport plan for the period 2014 to 2023. The cancellation notice is scheduled to be submitted to Stortinget in the spring of 2013. Now I look forward to taking a closer look at the proposals of the Coastal Administration, the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency and the Avinor on priorities and investment projects – the so-called plan proposal. Goods in the cold and the competitiveness of maritime transport are areas I want to prioritise in the work of the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. At the same time, there are a number of other actors who also have instruments. They are regional and local authorities, ports, shipping companies, transport companies and not least owners of goods. All must actively contribute within their responsibilities to the success of strengthening maritime transport. I am therefore now inviting key actors in the transport sector to such cooperation, so that we can jointly develop a broadly anchored strategy that builds on maritime transport – a short sea shipping strategy on which I and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, as Minister of Maritime Affairs, will have a strong focus. The ambition is to identify measures that, in the short and medium term, will provide maritime transport with as much as possible of around 15 million. tonnes of goods which can be transferred from trucks to rail and ship. At the same time, we should also take a closer look at the possibilities of moving further quantities of goods away from the road in the longer term. This strategy will be completed by the summer and will be one of the basis for the Ministry’s work on the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. The government will follow the ambitions of the national transport plan to improve the framework conditions for maritime transport. For more maritime transport, social development will be beneficial.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e802	I would like to thank the Council of State for her assessment of this area. She says we don't have to talk down on shipping, which has not been the intention of this interpellation, which rather focuses more on the importance of getting more goods and transport across the sea. The coincidence that the Council of State went out two days ago and focused on this through the media, I just think of it as positive in this context. The Council of State said it was 15 million. tonnes carried on the roads today, which could have crossed the sea. Yeah, the $15 million. tonnes is one side of the case, and the Council of State was so far concerned: there are enough trucks, these 15 million. The tons, which in some cases you might run the risk of meeting on the slope of a turn, and then it's about life and life as well. There is no doubt that many of the accidents that have occurred on the roads lately are due to this transport. The Council of State was also concerned with what has been done to reduce costs, i.e.: to transfer some more money within the sector – that’s positive, and that’s good. In any case, as was said from the shipping industry, one person still feels that the unloading charge is quite burdensome, especially for some of those who believe that they could have a fairway certificate after going so often on the same route. I'd like to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at that. Cooperation with the Minister of Industry will also be important in this context, because it means a lot when you get this to work in an intermodal port. The logistics advisory company Sitma, last June, produced a report that addresses the employment and value creation potential of establishing a logistics hub with port. Based on the volume of goods envisaged, an integrated logistical node in 2040 is reported to contribute to employment, at least 1000 annual works, directly related to the node, but the potential, the possibilities, should be much greater. Employment and value creation in direct relation to terminal investment may be multiplied if the hub is part of a comprehensive corridor and industry development plan in the region. The important aspect of the Sitma report is that the connecting point must have a proper location in relation to current and future flows of goods, it must embrace several types of goods, and it must be developed within a comprehensive transport strategy. The importance of business will also be high. What many see as the challenge of the coastal and fisheries minister is to coordinate with the other departments, when we see that it is now sector thinking that works, and that there is too little globalization. We ask the Council of State to take a close look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e817	It was absolutely not my intention to accuse the representative Myraune of talking down the maritime transport. It will be completely wrong, because I know that the representative Myraune – as I am – is very concerned about this field. But I simply need to find out that it is already an important part of transport production today. Then I want to grab hold of what the representative points out, that the shipping companies say that the unloading fee is burdensome. That's what the government has brought with it. That is why we are now about to start a work to review the entire unloading system. I would like to take the opportunity to clarify the Right's view of the unloading charges and their importance. As I said in my post, I am busy talking to many. I talk to and have meetings in my office, among others. also with the Right-Rapporteurs. On that occasion, a right-wing rapporteur called for us to introduce total and absolute unemployment obligations, particularly in the Oslo region, in the light of the accidents that have occurred. It has been shown that it is actually happening that the boatmasters have slept on the bridge. The argument was that by having a loose, you could get rid of it. The argument was that it would not cost anything, because it was the industry that paid the costs anyway. I would like to see an answer as to whether this is a view that is representative of the Right. The point here is coordination. In this area, there is quite a lack of organization. My point has been that everyone has to take responsibility, because I think that in any case it won't be that if we collect everything, it can sit one council and decide that goods should be transferred to sea. It is not the decisions that are missing; it is the implementation, and that is the action. I am afraid – regardless of the colour of the government and regardless of a government's competence – that it is not possible to decide that this should be resolved. It is entirely dependent on having all the actors, not least local politicians, who have an important role to play in port, port development and logistics hubs. Then I also register that there are different views on the matter. I had hoped that local and regional politicians would think of this as a great opportunity. I have been to ports outside Norway and looked at what activity in an area involves of income to the municipality. My goal is that everyone should view this as an opportunity and not a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e828	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses. I think that this topic has probably been a repetition, at least since the Viking Age. You world, we've come a lot further with the port structure since then. We have an international trade that constantly challenges us in many ways. So this is exciting to discuss. It's not an easy solution, as the Council of State says, but this is complex, and there are many areas where we have to look at the development potential. The interpellant is committed to strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport. Then I think it's important what the government has done to deploy actions related to maritime infrastructure. There the government has doubled the bet since 2005, which is very positive. But of course, they probably have even more to do. With regard to fees, which is the theme, it is clear that it is important to look at how to pay taxes at sea in relation to road transport – how that competition turns out. But I think it is important to point out that the Council of State actually says that the fees have been cut by 90 million. kr. It's important, and that's good. I was aware that this is a complex area to address. Of course, each measure contributes to a positive ring-effect. I think we also need to see this matter in relation to the rest of the world, and of course with international requirements and framework conditions. Then it is clearly important to look at the IMO and how we can contribute to the legislation we have, not least in terms of climate requirements. There's still a lot to pick up. I believe that Norwegian nutritionists have a lot to gain from the Norwegian model and the way you work here in developing technology, with our expertise – not least we need innovative solutions, but also build many of the boats to travel on the sea, because unfortunately we have many old boats. So a little bit relative to what goes on loading capacity: if we get better at logistics, and if we look more at what might be possible to pick up there, you can get more on board in the boats that actually go. We need to get the industry to look at how we can contribute to it. I believe that the logistic competence must always be in the forehead of the management who wants to send his goods off the farm. I also think, with regard to the national transport plan, that there are now many opportunities for dialogue with industry. State councils have been engaged in speeding up that dialogue, both in terms of pilotage, short-sea shipping strategy, etc. She's offensive, and that's so good. It's appreciated, and it's noticed along the coast. So I want to thank her for that initiative and for the pressure she has on these challenges. I am absolutely sure that more grips will also be taken forward – not just the positive that has been done, but that more will be taken into account here. Keep that course going!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e845	I am very happy that the Right addresses this matter. At the end of 2010, the Progress Party promoted a proposal for a representative on this very point, and the Right supported it. We did the same thing at the beginning of 2009. The policy of the Norwegian authorities on maritime transport obviously has great potential for improvement, and it is a pity that the government parties have not wanted to support our proposals. I myself do not fully understand what counter performances the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre may have to offer a message with measures to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport in the national transport of persons and goods. We know that the energy consumption per tonne-kilometre is half that of maritime transport compared to road transport, and this is something that should appeal to the left. The problem with maritime transport in Norway is that there is no lack of festivities, but there are no clear objectives, strategies and measures. An important barrier to increased maritime transport is that, in many cases, there is too low concentration of goods in the hubs for the volume benefits of maritime transport to be exploited, even if there are enough goods in total. Efficient maritime transport is usually dependent on large enough ships. Today, therefore, many goods are transported from the large ports of the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany to Norway by trailer and train. The Progress Party is realistic, and we want to bet on a smaller number of national ports with national road links, because it is important that the money is not scattered too thinly. Market-oriented investments and cooperation between public and private actors in public port activities should be facilitated. The infrastructure of maritime transport is largely financed by users, as opposed to, for example: the railway. Public charges thus become a competitive disadvantage for shipping. This was welcomed by the Progress Party as we promoted our own proposal for an alternative state budget for 2012. That's where we went, for example. to cut the unloading charge by 163 million. kr. Imagine what this could have meant for shipping, and especially for short sea shipping, if we had received a majority! The size should be dealt with at regular intervals on infrastructure related to sea-based transport, for increasing political awareness means increasing government organisation. The State should pay more for the infrastructure in Norway. This applies to both land transport, air transport and maritime transport. Here's the Progress Party 100 pst. on the business side. The responsibility for maritime transport lies today for fragmentation between departments. The Contracting Party will have its own Ministry of Transport responsible for everything, including maritime transport. This means that responsibility for the Coastal Plant is transferred from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to this Ministry of Transport. To sum up, the Advance Party is engaged in maritime transport, and I am therefore very pleased with this interpellation, and I hope for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e864	Complete thinking in the case of projects as large as moving goods from wheel to keel is necessary. I am going to point out in a relatively short post a number of places where I believe we have not been able to think about this properly. We got a year ago, to the great joy of many, through a fast route offer, so the fast route can run the coast for many years to come in good offers. One of the shortcomings we see in that offer is that there were no weights on goods and requirements to be able to include quantities of goods of a different nature in the tender submissions. So today it turns out that there are goods left on the quays along the coast, and instead the goods have to go with trailers – go against the thought you had just in connection with that project of getting goods over from wheels to keel. So there's a bunch of projects with near cargo. Some are state-initiated, some are regionally initiated, and some are at municipal level. At least it's important that we get a stronger cooperation between the different levels, so that you can keep a red thread and the good idea all the way down. The Council of State mentions the Law of the Fahrenheit. In fact, the latest changes on loose made it more difficult to make flexible and good solutions. In fact, when the Council of State wonders what the Right means by organising the unloading service in a slightly different way, it is that we believe the industry should be involved in organising the unloading service in a different way. It could also be that the industry might be allowed to hire losers, maybe have its own losers. It will be possible to find flexible solutions that can suit the type of speed and the areas of different cargo. This was removed when you last changed the fairway law, the possibility of organizing shipping, for example. Then there's another problem that keeps coming up, and that's that some fuel depots along the coast are losing approval. The cost of maintaining the depots means you put them down, and you move them instead to a large fuel depot, and then you run out diesel and petrol with trailers instead. In fact, West Finland is now largely supplied by a bunker depot in Troms, using trailers. This is because you put a depot in Hammerfest. I think it might be wise to go in and look at the rules, see if it's possible to place out more depots along the coast just to fulfill the idea of moving goods more over on the keel instead of moving it on the wheels. A large part of the large, heavy trailer traffic that goes between the Troms state and Finnmark state now, is actually fuel. So finally, I notice that the Workers' Party has added a new mantra. Every time you say something and comment on the right, it's that right-hand talk things down. So we've started talking about Norway. In the country of democracy, it must be possible to be allowed to participate in democratic processes and debates without being labeled as talking things down every time. I have reasonably good confidence both on behalf of the party and on behalf of my own head, but I also have a very strong sense that there is someone with a different political colour and who is taking part in a debate, so that my opinions may conflict with the opinions of others. If that's the way it was claimed by the representative Botten, that everything is very well, then the government wouldn't have had to put down other samples to think about what progress is going to be like. I think we're going to be very satisfied that there are many who are engaged in such an important theme as moving goods from wheels to refrigerators. It is important for the environment, and it will be important for coastal logistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e881	At least I don't want to talk down Myraune, who has raised this matter, I would rather talk him up to say that we very much appreciate the fact that the matter has arrived on the agenda today. From the Centre Party's point of view, there's one thing that's historic. The whole of our coast — everyone living along the coast — has an infrastructure built on maritime transport. It's only now that we have a car, and we have a railway. So now that we're discussing climate, and we're focusing on the environment, it's kind of going to make history go around. We're starting to look back: what was it that worked for the generations before us? The centre party wants value creation throughout the country. That is why we have very little sense of the desire of the Progress Party for a few very few national ports. In North Norway, we would certainly argue whether it was going to be in Bodø, in Tromsø or in Alta. We wouldn't get anywhere with that. On the other hand, we want a decentralised business structure, where we want to build key ports for business-related deployment, with business premises, and a business that also discusses the needs of the political system. We as politicians should simply be servants of those who are driving the creation of value in society. Then it is the small and medium-sized ports in the north and also in the west that are important, and we see that some regions have come further than others. For example, in the West, they have already managed to build a good infrastructure on the port side, in terms of both small and medium-sized enterprises. Now, when we're looking at a raging industrial development in the north, we need an infrastructure where we can use the maritime route as much as possible, where we can be creative, and where we can have small nodes built on the already existing ones. A good example can be the Sea of the Baltic Sea, where the port structure is built on the heavy industry. But it can be used in a development where we also link this up to transport out by boat in terms of agriculture/treprocessing, but also where we can transport in by boat from the coast of the islands outside, where there is a great industry in farming, which the minister knows very well. This is one way to think about it completely: how do we use maritime transport as a whole with road and rail? What's needed in our next NTP, is a holistic approach around this. There are small roadblocks in the system that are destroying very much for business development, and we have to go through this critically and thoroughly to see how we're going to do it. The very last thing I want to talk about is my past as a local politician, where I worked a lot on land planning. If we don't have the regional and local planning system in place, we're at risk of long-term training, and when we talk about long-term transport, we talk about many years. Getting good spatial planning both regionally and locally also requires close cooperation between authorities, politicians and business operators. The last thing we have to have in the whole picture is the environmental aspect, which is strongly linked to climate change. Now, if we get the development that the minister has outlined, we don't need any major, long and new investigations. We need practical implementation of what has been presented. The economic investment provided by the government must go hand in hand with regional and local land planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e896	Interpellant wants to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport in the transport of both persons and goods. It's a wish that I fully share. The Government, in its Soria Moria II Declaration, has also stressed the need to stimulate the development of freight transport by sea, and this helps to create the background for the government to its holistic transport policy. Maritime transport is a natural and important part of the national transport plan, and this is one of the most important tools we have for achieving the objectives of the transport sector. At the end of this month, in fact on the shooting anniversary itself, the trade unions are presenting their draft new national transport plan. We don't know what's coming there yet, but about a year ago, they presented the same etats. Avinor, the Swedish Railway Agency, the Swedish Coastal Agency and the Swedish Road Administration also presented their sectoral core network services, including common target formulations. We must be able to assume that the currently submitted subjects are based on these guides. Not surprisingly, there is a major challenge in getting traffic from car to public in the big cities. In addition, it is emphasised that businesses and district dwellers depend entirely on a functioning transport system in order to create the most robust housing and labour markets possible, and that, therefore, there is a greater need to facilitate the transfer of more goods from road to sea and rail. I believe this is a good promise to see the modes of transport in a better context. In the further work on the transport plan, where Stortinget will of course be more involved in the future, a person will be able to really do the grips that need to be able to achieve the goal of more goods from road to sea and from road to rail. There are previous proposals from the opposition party for an own monitoring message on measures to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. It was named by the representative Voesskensen instead. It may initially sound nice and straightforward, but we in the Labour Party have no support for this. The reason for this has not been that we consider maritime transport to be of little importance. On the contrary, maritime transport is so important that precisely in order to increase this transport of its part of the freight transport sector, strategic grips and measures need to be developed through a comprehensive assessment of the transport sector. As I understand the interpellent, it is precisely these contexts that he is also busy that we need to see and find a good interaction based on. Then it is our national transport plan that is the right and best framework to work on this. When the objective is to increase the competitiveness of maritime transport, it is important to define the competing modes of transport. There is probably not much research and so many distributions to establish that it is mostly our roads and trucks. Therefore, it is very crucial that we now continue in the transport planning process to truly balance this in a way where the road system – and the rail system, for that matter – are increasingly involved in making maritime transport and our ports even more attractive to owners of goods. It is not that everything in this field is going to happen in the next transport planning period, and nothing has happened well until now. The current NTP is also a good framework for improving the competitiveness of maritime transport. Several important steps have been taken to reduce taxes, simplify legislation and repair ports and not least fairways. Several reports have also been drawn up that point to concrete actions that could move in the right direction and, not least, what has now been emphasised, namely that the Minister is in a good and important dialogue with the actors involved in the industry. That this is both right and important was made clear in yesterday's edition of the Haugesund Newspaper, where former Right-Representative and member of the transport committee Thorhild Widvey, having led a debate on the subject, said that this had all been a few in a long time, but that it is positive that a now gets a strategy for how to achieve it. Therefore – to the representative Hille-Jensen: Right does not talk this down, at least not Thorhild Widvey. I thought she was talking about this and the Council of State – and thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e917	When the theme is talking up or down, I will also try to help talk up maritime transport. I believe that everyone in this room today has contributed, and we're trying to do that as often as we can. But we have to realize that there are people outside this hall who don't keep talking about shipping. We often discuss the political objectives and talk nicely in our celebrations about getting goods from road to track and sea. But the question is often: what happens when the parties and the goals meet reality – when we're going to try this out, and when the test pieces come? A current test piece is now the location of the railway station's new freight terminal in Trøndelag, the one currently located at Brattøra in Trondheim, but where capacity is now being used up. Although it is located on Brattóra in Trondheim, which is about at the port, it is not directly connected to the port. The Railway Agency has now delivered its concept selection investigation, with a recommendation on a shared solution. They will place the Railway Agency's freight terminal on an earth far away from the sea, far inland, so that goods must be transported by car if they are to be obtained either from the sea to the track or from the track to the sea. We've just been on committee tour in Buskerud and Westfold. There we got clear signals from them at the ports that we talked to, that they would like to have the freight terminals for the railway located at sea. I have spoken to – and we have received clear signals from – Trondheim port, which is moving from Trondheim center to another location in Trondheimsfjorden, that they would like to have a freight terminal at the port, and that it is essential to get more goods across from track and road to sea. However, the Railway Agency believes that the opportunities for growth in maritime transport are isolated, relatively unaffected by where they place the freight terminal in Trøndelag. The NHO transport lift was presented not long ago, and the NHO is clear that they will have intermodal hubs for freight transport. The fillings in Trøndelag are almost unanimous in that they want freight terminals located at port. You want an intermodal goodies point in Trøndelag. In fact, most municipalities, including in Trøndelag, with the exception of the municipalities that realize that they will have to occupy some of the beachline say – funny enough. So there's a great regional commitment to a location of the Railway Agency's freight terminal at the port of Trøndelag. In addition to the fact that logistics hubs can help to increase freight transport by rail, it is very important that opportunities for increased freight transport by sea are given great importance in this context, and I believe that the Railway Agency in its draft selection inquiry has not given it sufficient weight. That's why I'm going to use this opportunity to help talk up an intermodal freight hub where rail, sea and road meet, also in Trøndelag, and like to talk in the vicinity of an airport, which is one of the locations in question. Finally, I have one question, which is not really about the location of the freight terminal in Trøndelag, but perhaps more is a question for the Progress Party, because I see that it is one of the Progress Party who will have the word after me. The Progress Party representative Vosskensen said that the Progress Party would focus on a few national ports linked to the national road network, because they would not be squeezing the money thinly. Well, I guess that's the way she put it. But if maritime transport is so important as the Progress Party says they believe it is, I do not understand why it is only in this area in the transport sector and in the transport sector that the Progress Party has so little money that they have to spread them thinly beyond, while they have more than enough money for everything else in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e935	At least it's good that we can deviate from the requirement not to build in the hundred meter belt when we talk about ports. There are several in government that have seen sparkles today. I think there is reason to give praise to the council when she actually sends a positive signal – that is why I intend to do it. What's important is that a thing to keep the pressure up, but then there are several paradoxes we have to live. When everyone says we have to have more traffic on the keel, from the road and the track, I assume that one actually sees the investment plans in context. When one from the government party today says that one must see this gathering when one assesses the whole transport sector as a whole, I wonder that one does not see at the same time that it would have been a strength if one had gathered responsibility in one department, as the Progress Party suggests, so that one could have the natural progress between road and keel or between track and keel. In this way, interaction would have been easier. I mean, it's openbert's fight between what the Center Party says in this room, and what the Labour Party says. After all, if you want to succeed in the future in getting more cool, you need to have a clearer focus on some areas, especially the resources that are currently in the NTP, and at the same time, you need to see this in a larger context, as I've been in the past. If you think we're lucky with a fast strategy to make several national ports work well, and believe that one with today's resources can succeed in both road investment and investment in the cold, if one is to spread this beyond a number of ports, I would say that then a progress loses – that's what I'm overexploited about. If one in this room believes that in the future the government party intends to spend a lot more on investments in colds, ports and the like, and significantly more on connecting roads to the same ports, it is a good signal, but that is not what has been signaled at all. That's why it amazes me that one says that one is forced to bet all the places, knowing that then one loses the progress that a self-tells one is very busy. It's not related. This is why I hope that the Council of State can comment on one — at least at the inception stage — that it is necessary to concentrate the effort better, so that the most important strategic areas can quickly be developed. It is a paradox when a well sent value creation takes place in the West, for example. through the whole area of the east, on the road – and forcing traffic through Oslo. It is possible to solve it, but then one must focus on the areas where exports are largest – and prioritise port areas there. And then there's one more thing that's really important if you're going to be happy to get goods on the cold, and that's that one is sure that the goods will come out. If a boat is loaded with salmon going to Europe, it does not benefit that it is located firmly north of Town. It's a reality that we can't get out of. If you cannot be sure that the goods will arrive, you will continue to leave the goods on the road. That's why City's ship tunnel – which has been postponed so many times that I don't think about it – is really important to get in place. That's why I can think of challenging the Council of States: when will the new signal come in view of City Ship Tunnel, and will the Council of State intensify the work to get it in place? It's one of the key lines that we have to be happy with if we're going to be able to achieve what everyone in this room is dreaming about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e952	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the recordings that have been made during this debate. It is pointed out that there is an important debate, and I think it is. This is a very important debate. The Council of State says that whatever political colour it is not just to make decisions and make a decision. Of course, I very much agree with that, there are no decisions that can provide for this. That's why it's so important – and I think Magne Rommetveit mentioned it – to have a good debate with all the actors. That's probably what can help us eventually get a solution to this. This has been initiated by the Council of State, and I wish her every success in that debate and dialogue. Else-May Botten said that we have some challenges with, among other things. old boats. It's part of the actors that's going to be in the debate, I assume, because it's probably true, but there's probably few who will build new boats if there's no perspective in that there's a lot of transport going on. That is why these intermodal ports are so important. Else-May Botten also mentions that we have to have logistics in the pancakes all the time. Yes, I very much agree with that, and it has the actors. It has its keepers, because they count the money and figure out the fastest and cheapest way to get the goods. They don't think strategically about the environment, long-term plans for the country, etc. – as politicians, we have to do that. The Council of State said that she hoped that regional politicians had some more overarching objective. I don't think we should count on that. Now it's like everyone's closest to himself, and that's how it seems to be breaking out with local politicians as well. They want a port, but that port should have a regional significance – and something more than that – I don't think we can count on. Then I would like to thank Susanne Bratli for pointing out and stressing the lack of strategic thinking in what is available in the KVU for freight terminal in Central Norway. I really hope the Council of State can get a recording of that. State councils are asking for Right View in the case of pilots. We think the unloading service is important, because it should be safe to travel at sea, but we have not ordered everyone to be unloaded. We believe that a fairway certificate can be used. I don't think a losen should be on the bridge to make sure the skipper doesn't go to sleep. We have national ports today, and it's okay to have pointed out, but it needs something more than that. I would like to congratulate the Council of State – most of all in the dialogue with other departments to find a common solution to the overall transport needs in Norway over the next 40 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e976	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important matter, and I thank you for your input. I feel that there is a great deal of commitment both to the next transport plan and to commercial transport going by sea, and I am very happy that the sea has come up higher on the agenda in the transport debate. As I said in my post, it is an area where the government will give priority to work on the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. So to who's talking up, and who's talking down. As I said in my first short post after the main post: the interpellant should at least not be accused of talking the shipping down. Neither should the representative, Bakke-Jensen. I just have a deep need to show that there's a lot going well. Then I am very aware that the weight of the opposition in life is at all times to criticize the sitting government. It's kind of the form of work in this room. Therefore, I must admit that I very much appreciate the fact that the industries themselves – the Shipowners Association, the operators themselves – are very positive for what we are doing. It's important to me in the further work, and we get good advice on the way forward. For the organisation of these departments: both the representative Vogskesen and the representative Dale were in that one department would have solved this. I am aware that the Progress Party has not participated in budgetary negotiations in government – it is only the Right that can help them ever to do so – but what this view clearly expresses is that the representatives of the Progress Party do not know how the government is interacting. To put it this way: there is no disadvantage whatsoever that there are at least two councillors who argue for the same thing. Me and the Minister of Transport, in this case the Minister of Shipping, have the same objective in relation to the field we are discussing today, and it is always good to be more involved in arguing against the Minister of Finance. Then, of course, others can push that discussion forward. To the representative Vokskesen and the fact that the Progress Party has cut the unloading fee by 163 million. kr: What this will contribute to is a reduction in coastal safety – and, of course, it will also make a few dollars more affordable for users. I believe that if someone really means something, an increase in the appropriations, such that in case the state pays the cost of the loss. At least the red-green government does not agree that we should reduce safety along the coast. We have to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e987	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1003	The need and opportunities for cross-border movement of persons are increasing as a result of increased world trade, reduced transport costs, the reduction of border barriers and closer cooperation between different countries. Different cultures come into contact with each other, and ideas, knowledge and experience are exchanged faster and more comprehensively than before. Increased labour migration is an important contribution to taking these developments seriously and exploiting the potential of globalisation. The labour market is likely to be characterised by increasing migration of workers and service providers over the years to come, but also by increased competition for labour between countries. Having a conscious and comprehensive policy that ensures sustainable labour migration is one of the main policy challenges we face. Knowledge and competence, together with diversity in the workforce, are crucial for innovation and industrial development in an increasingly competitive and international labour and business life. In order to maintain the current level of well-being and ensure value creation through a living knowledge-based economy, Norway needs to pursue a policy that enables it to compete internationally for the competent labour force. Norwegian employment and business will need special skills to cope with competition with international companies. The enlarged international labour market gives Norwegian industry more opportunities to recruit the necessary labour force. Not very long ago, in 1992, the SSB made a big report predicting the development of the population in Norway. The mid-range option said that in 2016 it would be 4,3 million. residents in Norway. In 2012, Norway will pass 5 million in a very short time. residents. It's hard to predict the future, population growth has been much bigger than expected. Increased immigration is a main explanation. Despite the stoppage of immigration, we have had a formidable influx from abroad – refugees, asylum seekers, family reunification and, as a result of the EEA Agreement, significant labour migration. The political debate and public change of words have very much focused on the institution of asylum and its practice. I understand that this is an important debate, but unfortunately the debate also often helps to obscure reality. The reality is that the most growing group of immigrants are immigrants. If one looks at the 10 largest immigrant groups in Norway, a Polish group finds a clear no. 1, point 2 is the group from Sweden, no. 3 is the group from Pakistan. But on the top 10 list we also find countries like Germany, Denmark and Lithuania. I refer to the predictions of the SSB in 1982. Then they pointed out that we would probably have a larger net immigration to Norway in the years that came. They assumed a net immigration of 4000 per year. In 2010, net immigration passed 40,000, ten times as much as you thought 30 years ago. This can, of course, be reversed, but with today's severe economic crisis in Europe, there is better reason to believe that labour migration will increase, including from countries in southern Europe. We now see in both Bergen and Oslo that various organisations, such as the Catholic Church, have set up an office to help and advise jobseekers from southern Europe. Hanne Bjurstrøm has also commented on this, and her answer was that those who were pale should go home as soon as possible. The question then is: what kind of strategy does the government have to facilitate the type of labour immigration that one is now facing? Of course, the right thing is that those who come have a job when they come to Norway, but as long as they are EEA citizens, they can also come here and apply for a job. We will, in the course of the year, hopefully, discuss the follow-up of the Brochmann Committee and the Kaldheim Committee, and the Council of State has announced that integration policy will be dealt with here in the House. That's good, and there's a lot of challenges to tackle. Of course, we need to have a debate on how our welfare systems can be sustainable, in the light of the commitments we have through the EEA Agreement. But the most important thing we can contribute to is that there is growth in the economy, so that those who come to Norway to work can keep their jobs, and – even more importantly – qualify for new and better jobs. Yesterday, unemployment statistics were published for November 2011. It shows a happy decline in unemployment among immigrants. The greatest decline is seen in men from Eastern Europe, but also in other groups. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, it is important to see immigrants as an important and crucial resource for Norway. In the past, the right has highlighted the importance of offering Norwegian training to unemployed workers when they are unemployed, and that this must be offered as part of labour market measures in all parts of the country. Today such offers are given in a few counties, it should be given everywhere. Norwegian is the key to success in working life, and increased Norwegian skills will help make it easier to get back to work. Labour immigration is not a urban phenomenon, but equally important for district municipalities. In a number of Norwegian district municipalities, there is a total dependence on labour migrants for the wheels to walk around – in fish processing farms, industrial establishments, travel and service establishments. Last year I was on Fröya and visited Salmar's new salmon processing company, the world's most modern production of salmon for the world market. It struck me that the parking space outside was filled with cars from all countries other than Norway. And correctly, the company has 430 employees, of which about 400 are from abroad. The municipality had seen this and was in the process of monitoring the competence of the employees, given that many of them could have been trained by the municipality. What is the national policy? Have some idea of how many foreign health workers, engineers, master's candidates, etc. working in Norwegian enterprises, which could obviously be qualified for jobs other than those they hold today? My tip is that there are many overqualified employees from abroad at Norwegian production companies. And when one at the same time knows that there is a screaming shortage of professionals in many municipalities, more people should do as Fröya does and monitor the competence of employees. Last year there was a decline in the population of Norway in 112 municipalities. But there was net growth in the move from abroad in 421 municipalities. The housing in the districts is therefore very dependent on immigration from abroad, which was confirmed at the Municipal Ministry's Regional Conference at Voss this autumn. The rapporteurs from Austevoll in Hordaland, from the Progress Party, and Hasvik in Finnmark, from the Workers' Party, confirmed this and underlined that they were doing everything they could to facilitate the well-being and housing of migrant workers, because the companies in the municipalities depended entirely on their work. What was particularly frustrating in Finnmark was the difficulty of supporting the recruitment of workers from Russia. Here comes many of the measures that the right has taken up before. For citizens of non-EEA countries, access to the Norwegian labour market is difficult. Right-hand thinks this should be easier. The argument against is that the specialist quota is not met. But when one hears the experience of businesses and individuals with this scheme, one can see that this quota is not being filled. We believe that serious companies should decide for themselves which employees they need, and how they will be recruited. Today there is a huge paper mill, which causes many highly skilled workers to become so frustrated that they give up staying in Norway. Enterprises should be eligible for prior approval in order to allow professionals/specialists to start their work there while the application is being processed by the UDI. A rapid track system should be established for pre-authorised enterprises. Today's regulation regulates who is qualified as a specialist to fall within the scheme. It should be left to employers/enterprise to assess for themselves whether an employee has the right skills. It will eliminate bureaucracy and release resources to deal with more complex issues. The procedure and bureaucracy that meet people who want to work in Norway are unsustainable. For workers from non-EU countries, a procedural period of up to six months is reported from many enterprises. In addition, for many of the foreign workers who come here as specialists, it takes a very long time to get a personal number. The person number is a prerequisite for opening a bank account, which in turn is an important element of being able to get paid. Furthermore, a non-identifying person is given a personal number, and it is very challenging to obtain insurance, mobile phone etc., etc. We therefore need to change and simplify the process of applying for, and receiving, the personal number of immigrants. Work authorisation as a professional/specialist may be granted for a period of three years but no longer than the duration of the employment relationship. Renewal is a very bureaucratic process that takes a lot of time, providing long periods of unresolved situation and stress for the one involved. It is necessary to simplify these control activities, in particular those previously authorised. Just 5 pst. by immigrants applying for EU countries, have higher education or are skilled, while more than 50 pst. higher education is provided by those granted a residence permit in the United States. We need an assessment of the changes in today's system, and I ask the government to assess a comprehensive change in labour immigration policy by looking at the experiences of the EU and the US in the field. The most important thing in the future will be a debate on how to make the best possible use of the resources and competences of immigrants. Today, the focus is on those who come to Norway after fleeing political oppression. I want an equal focus on those workers who are so mobile that they move to an unknown country to start working.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1052	It is an important debate that is being raised by the representative of Greece today. I want to thank you for this interpellation. There is also a good debate on the process to be followed by the Stortinget and on the big picture of integration that the government will present. Norwegian businesses would not be able to cope without labour immigration. We're privileged in Norway. While the rest of Europe is experiencing a deep crisis, there is still growth in the Norwegian economy. This means that many people will look to Norway when they do not have the opportunity to get a job in their home country. We're still going to need immigrants in the years to come, and we've accepted a large number of years that have gone by. From 2004 to 2009, a total of 73 000 people have migrated from the 10 EU countries in Central and Eastern Europe. On November 17, 2011, the NRK wrote on its websites that More and Romsdal have now become immigration counties no. 1 and that the challenge now facing the state is to keep the immigrants on the labour market in order to ensure population growth and to keep the economy going. Thus, it turns out that, contrary to what many thought when it was opened up for labour immigration from Eastern and Central Europe, many migrant workers are falling into Norway. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the number of family reunifications, particularly for Polish and German migrant workers in Norway. This means that labour immigration is helping to change Norway, and it also means – and I fully agree with the inter-pellant – that we need an integration policy aimed at migrant workers. The Norwegian welfare state has, as one of its pillars, the universality of the services provided, and they shall apply to all residents of Norway – whether it is the education system, the services of the Employment and Welfare Act, health services or other public services. Having said that, there may also be a need for measures to facilitate the accommodation of immigrants and their families in Norway. First of all, it is important to continue to work towards social dumping and to ensure good working conditions for immigrants. Information on rights and obligations is then important, and we have actions specifically targeted at this group. For example, voluntary organisations receive support for information and guidance measures for migrant workers. It includes, for example: projects intended to provide information on duties and rights, as well as to contribute to networking and integration into the local environment. On behalf of the Ministry, the Directorate for Integration and Diversity has produced a start-up package containing systematic information on rights and obligations, with practical advice and tips. It is called New in Norway and is available both online and in printed form. It's written in five languages, and we get very good feedback on it. To date, 165 000 copies of New have been distributed in Norway and are used by both immigrants and public services. In addition, the Employment and Welfare Act is intended to establish a dedicated web portal during 2012 to provide access to all relevant information relating to labour immigration and the import of services. Interpellant develops language training, and that is of course of great importance. On 1 September 2005, it was provided that workers from the EEA/EFTA area are not entitled to any training or obligation. It was then considered reasonable that workers paid for training themselves because they had gainful work. Training in Norwegian and social skills is one of our most important integration actions. Although migrant workers work on arrival, it is of great importance that they learn Norwegian. It is important in terms of labour market mobility, it is important for the ability to maintain a job, and it is important to avoid worse working conditions than the rest of the population. Increased competition for jobs can mean greater emphasis on Norwegian skills in recruitment and dismissals. In particular, Norwegian skills are important for participation in society, both for migrant workers and for reunited family members. The Inclusion Committee and the Velferd and Migration Committee, as the interpellant also mentioned, have recently provided their investigations. They both discuss Norwegian training for migrant workers, but they have different recommendations. While the Inclusion Committee recommends free Norwegian training for migrant workers, the majority of the Velferd and Migration Committee does not participate in any general offer of free Norwegian training for EEA citizens. It is also recommended to organise the existing supply. This debate on language training will naturally have to become a topic when the government presents that communication on integration policy. Increasing labour migration gives Norwegian communities access to a lot of new skills. There are resources that our society needs to make the most of. Therefore, it is important that we have an overview of the competence of immigrants as a group. Therefore, a training registration system is established during 2012. This means that all non-residents staying in Norway should be able to record educational information. In the case of immigrants with a need to assess their competence, it is also important to have good arrangements. Among other things, we have real competence assessment, and we have professional testing. For migrant workers who become unemployed, the Labour and Welfare Unit has several work-oriented measures that are suitable, such as: labour market training, a place of practice or a wage subsidy. Nav offices may help to strengthen the language skills of unemployed immigrants, including: through specially organised courses combining language training and working practices. Nav Oslo and Akershus have, for example, a separate offer for the qualification and dissemination of jobseekers whose native language is Polish. The most important thing for those who come here to work is, of course, working conditions. One of the characteristics of the Norwegian social model is that there are small differences between us. It's not only about economics, it's also about the boss and the workers being more or less equal to each other, correcting each other and having a great deal of common ownership of the work. Not only do you accept messages indifferently, but you often participate with your own competence, where everyone feels a responsibility to contribute to the best possible final result. Increasing labour migration allows us to be on the way to a society where more and more people are employed elsewhere than where they work, where more and more people have temporary contracts. The joint report on rentals in construction sites in the Oslo area shows that 55 pst. by the employees of the contractors are hired, the subcontractors were equivalent to 43 pst. I will mention four reasons why permanent employment is important: Permanent employment provides security and predictability for employees. We know that only 16 pst. of those who work for a temporary employment agency, pay between jobs. Permanent employment provides safety and predictability for the holding. We know that training, corporate culture and pride are important for quality and cohesion. The fixed employment provides security and predictability for the bank that is going to lend us money to take care of our heads. And not least: the permanent employment of a company makes professional organisation possible. With employees from all sides – employable – we do not get there. The main response to the challenges we face with increased labour migration is linked to the challenges facing the labour market. It also means that the choices we make as a society with regard to the organisation of our working life, the rules of our working life, are going to be crucial if we succeed in the integration processes or not. Even more important than in 2005, it will be to ensure a work environment law that guarantees the right to permanent jobs, regulates overtime use, and ensures workers against exploitation. We need a clear law, and we need strong labour supervision to verify compliance with the law. That is why there is a close link between the policy of the red-green government to ensure the rules of the labour market and to combat social dumping, and the policy for which I am responsible, which aims to integrate the workers into the Norwegian society. The government is working as mentioned in a paper on integration policy to be promoted in 2012. In this context, issues relating to migrant workers will be discussed. As I said, there is a need for integration policy to raise this dimension more clearly. I fully agree with the inter-pellant. I look forward to further discussions on the theme when the message is to be processed in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1114	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, especially because at the end of his speech he stressed that this was a topic that would be raised in the integration message. Some of our intentions have just been to focus on the very large group that the immigrants have gradually become, and for which we have in many ways no own policy. It's not an end in itself to have policies for everything if it works, but there are some challenges, especially in relation to their competences, and how to make the best use of it for the Norwegian community. There I also registered that the Council of State now launched a registration system – he may have launched it before without me having got it with me – where those who want it can put in their skills and background. What is also very important, and as the Council of State concerned, is this about receiving approved education from other countries. There is more to it than the Council of State who has a responsibility. This is something that we're still meeting. People who have a good education from another country often have a hard time getting it approved in Norway. So the question is, how can you do that? This may be the Minister of Education who has to deal with it, but there is no doubt that there is a lot of competence there. I mentioned instead that I had been to Frøya. There they had recorded that there were many fillet workers with master's degrees in various subjects, who, with a little extra Norwegian training and a little adaptation of their competence, could enter good municipal positions or in other positions where the need for academic education was present. I look forward to having that debate on the communication on integration. I think it's very important that we put an extra focus on labour immigration there, as the Light Hill also points out. That net immigration to Norway is now ten times as large as was predicted 30 years ago, says a little about the challenges we face, but it also says a little about the attractiveness Norway has as a country where it is all right to work. I think it is important not only to problem what is going on in welfare schemes and abuse of them, but rather to focus and find out that it is possible to get a job in Norway. It is possible for good forces to come here and help build the Norwegian community further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1123	It's not much to put your finger on what the representative of Greece said. Here we share many perspectives, although of course it will be the case when we come to the debate on instruments, that we look differently at a number of things, not least related to employment issues. But I think I want to focus on what we agree on, which is very important, and that is that we need a debate related to immigration in Norway that reflects more closely the changed composition of immigration. It is too often that we discuss on premises that are largely shaped by what immigration looked like ten years ago or even further back. It is also important to take on board that what we thought some years ago would be temporary or short-term immigration, instead of becoming the establishment of new permanent minorities in Norwegian society. For example, we want to do this. have a permanent Polish-Norwegian minority, and it is of course just as important to discuss the group's assumptions and opportunities to become active participants and full-fledged citizens in Norway as it is for other groups that we often discuss in the integration debate. I have hopes associated with the registration system, as I mentioned. I also very much agree with the interpellant that it is a major challenge to ensure that people with a background from other countries actually get a census of their qualifications in Norway. It is not just a matter of individual concern, but a matter of great social importance. We're wasting resources in Norway today when we can't do it. There are many reasons for over-qualification, and one of them is the inter-pellant point on which the recognition of education is linked. It's a priority area for the government to get on with it. It is, as was pointed out, the Ministry of Knowledge that has the primary responsibility for it, but I also have good dialogue with the Ministry of Knowledge about it, because it is a matter that is extremely relevant to whether we succeed in integration and inclusion policy. In conclusion, I want to mention a challenge that we haven't faced yet, but that is real, and that is the challenge of discrimination. We were recently fully documented by a research project commissioned by the Ministry, that in Norway it is a disadvantage to have a foreign-country name when applying for a job. It's also part of the explanation that some people don't get a payoff for their qualifications. It is more difficult to find simple policy solutions. We will also discuss this in the Communication, but the most important answer is a mobilization of attitudes towards people and employers in Norway to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1136	The opposition often accuses us in the majority to ignore good minority proposals. I could imagine contributing a little twist on that, because the interpellant's idea of a separate strategy for the inclusion of workers is good. Governments have shown that many important measures have already been implemented or on the stairs. The visibility of actions across different departments under the heading of labour immigration may be misguided, and the Council of State has, to a large extent, also returned to it in the context of the Communication of Integration. The inclusion of immigrants is about the way we accept new citizens, but it's just as much about self-interest. Former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen already stated at the presentation of his first own budget in October 2006 that Poles are saving the government's promises. In an interview with her fatherland friend, she showed, among other things: for the construction of 19,300 kindergartens, saying: «Now it's not on money. It is the labour force that is the challenge.’ One of the uncertainties was the actual growth in Poland then, which could make it less attractive for Poles to come here. NAV EURES shows that last year the use of EU labour force was the highest in three years. Three out of ten enterprises used such labour. 34 pst. of these enterprises indicated that they were heavily dependent on this labour force. Typically, construction, industry, hotel and restaurant industries, 44, 45 and 67 pst respectively. enterprises depend on this labour force. The need is likely to increase in the future and not diminish. EU labour force is what dominates, but 15 pst. by enterprises also use labour from third countries, with Finnmark at the top, with 28 pst. by the enterprises. The five largest recruitment countries are Russia, the United States, India, Thailand and Iraq. So language training is important, also for migrant workers. The national meeting of the Labour Party decided to extend the offer of Norwegian training to migrant workers and their families. Here I think it must be possible to find good solutions in a cooperation between the public and private sectors, especially because every fourth employer has already set up their own language training arrangements for these workers. Interpellant also calls for work to secure labour for District Norway. Last year, NOU 2011:3 Competence jobs – driving growth across the country, followed by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. One of the main points here is just to ensure the recruitment of foreign, competent labour to the districts. But – and this is where I really want to challenge the Right a little – the theme of labour immigration is not just a sunshine story. A strategy for the integration of migrant workers can never escape the theme of social dumping. We have all seen grotesque examples of gross exchange of foreign labour: Poles who built the Opera for 62 kroner an hour, without holiday money, without sickness pay, with fake papers, two and four together in the room at the shelter, with two showers on the division of 20 men, Poles who have lived in fire traps, some living together on mattresses on the construction site itself. So these are not individual examples and not a good starting point for better integration of foreign workers. Nor is it a good starting point for serious firms to succumb to such ruthless competition. However, the government's action plans against social dumping have not received any particular support from either the Right Party or the Progress Party in this Chamber. They have voted against the publication of collective bargaining agreements, against the transparency of remuneration and working conditions of the trustees and against the obligation to disclose information when issuing ID cards, to mention something. In the 2012 budget, the Right cut off the tripartite sectoral programmes against social dumping. Now we are so lucky that, in addition to a notified integration message, we also have Meld. St. 29 for 2010–2011 Joint responsibility for a good and decent working life lying at treatment in Stortinget. It's going to be exciting to see how the Right poses to it. I seriously believe that without changing the position of the right and ending the whole thing about the work against social dumping, I find it difficult to see how the idea of a comprehensive strategy for the inclusion of migrant workers can really have something to do with it and lead somewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1160	Thanks to the interpellant who raises important questions about a theme and a challenge that gets bigger and bigger every day. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the Minister on the increase in the family. I also want to mention that this has a lot to do with the Ministry of Labour. It's important that we take with us. That's one of the reasons why I'm here today. I actually thought that the theme that we're discussing here applies equally to that side of the case. We are all briefed on the crisis in EU countries. In particular, Spain, Greece and Italy have been in focus when it comes to economics and not least to the high unemployment rate. This leads to enormous challenges for many individuals and families, and for their respective communities, and it means that Norway, with its low unemployment and its good welfare supply, is highly valued and not least seen as a happy country for those who have come into a very difficult situation. We've all seen headlines in the media about different fates: families who bet everything they have, and close the door behind them in their homeland to seek happiness here in Norway. Many people travel after marketing that Norway has a lot of work and good welfare conditions for children and families. Then, unfortunately, the shock gets bigger when the reality in Norway is something completely different. One waits for weeks to get a D number, savings are reduced, and one approaches the three-month deadline to get a job. It goes without saying that if one of these three months' work is to be done without being able to speak and almost without being able to master it, it will be a major challenge for all parties. Many of these jobseekers have good education and are well qualified for many jobs that Norway really needs in the future. But are we ready to accept these, or are we somehow fooling them a little bit when they come here and have burning bridges behind them in their homeland? Does Nav have enough competence to accept these in a good way? The fate of a TV screen shows that they have a glow and a stand-on-will to really get a life here in the country, which means that I, and probably more, had wanted to say a clear yes to these people. Norway needs you! Our unemployment rate is low. At the same time as a cry for more engineers and human beings in the health sector, there must also be a good part of these new ones with the skills requested. Here the reception systems must work well – together with both public and private employers. But I think there's a little bit missing here. There are a lot of criteria to put in place, from both a worker and an employer's side. These must be well coordinated and co-ordinated. Announces from the consultant of the Caritas Aid Organisation in November 2011 that there is a need for that type of workforce. Many people have education from their home country that can easily be transformed into the Norwegian system, and may be based on it. Having a good reception system is important. We feel that this is not very good – it could be better. Many of the challenges they would clearly have done before leaving their home country. There's probably a lot of information about this, and here we have to get better. One sees this when it applies to everyone who comes here and has not done what they should do in advance. As a citizen of EU, EEA and EFTA countries, there is no need to apply for a residence permit, but instead register online and then meet with the police in Norway. From 2010 to 2011, the increase in the application for tax cards was 82 p.m. for citizens of Greece. From Spain the increase has been 33 p.m., and the increase will continue. But then a giver needs to know the challenges we have – and not least do something about them. It is a shame to see that people have to spend the night outside or with some other organisation for those with disabilities – people who can contribute here and have the right skills that Norway is crying for. But this has come out wrong when it comes to what information has been given to them before they left. Our community gives them a bit of rude and wrong greeting, and we have to do the best we can to keep this from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1181	I thank the interpellant for an important and good interpellation – and also the Council of State for a very good post. It's pleasant to be in Stortinget during interpellation debates where we can lift our eyes a little higher than to just the closest problems. Here it has been said very wisely and very well. As a finnmarking, I would like to address a small part of what has to do with labour immigration, namely Norway's relationship with our large neighbour in the east. Over the years, we have tried to do something about the rules on labour immigration from Russia through the Northern Territory Initiative and the major, important part of foreign policy. The good relationship that has been between the Finnish mark-ups and North-West Russia for many, many years is an important part of the success of Norwegian north-eastern policy in recent years. It is with a bit of bismach that you call for hurrah, since, as rapporteur in 2007, I asked for the first time about this issue of labour immigration – and for the first time I experienced how difficult it could be to enter as a Russian worker in Norway – it has happened very little. It is not that the matter has not been the focus. Kristin Halvorsen was the first government council to say that this was to be done. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen told me that it was only supposed to be talking about days before it was supposed to be taken care of, and the next time Kristin Halvorsen came up – a little year later – she thought it was strange that things weren't right. The problem is that today it's just as difficult. The strange thing about this is that Norway is excused for having a role in Schengen cooperation. It makes this hard. Finland has exactly the same task in Schengen cooperation, but they are doing much, much better. It is therefore easy to enter from Russia to Finland as an employee, but it is difficult for Norway. There are many advantages to picking up Russian labour. It's people who are climate-friendly, it's people who are close to us in culture, and it's important for the good relationship between Norway and Russia. Clearly, the high level of labour migration we now have from Poland is doing something about the relationship between Norway and Poland — as a country. It'll be just as important in terms of the good relationship we depend on having to our big neighbor in the east. We have examples that we've got Russian labour after a lot of bureaucracy and a long, long time. What some of the good examples show is that when we have engaged employers — a committed business life — they concentrate on providing these workers with Norwegian education and education in Norwegian social conditions. The times this has been combined with classes of immigrants who have come for other reasons – they have been in need – this has produced very good results. It gives increased status to people who have come here because they have a need for protection, to sit in a normal class and learn the language with people who are workers and are here for that reason. It does something to people that you get normalized the situation as soon as possible. That's why, in fact, I think that working more towards Immigrants also getting these offers can give many pluses. So to the role of the Labour Party and the Right in social dumping: we can, of course, dissect budget until we're tired. In fact, from the Right, we have committed considerable funds to the Labour Inspectorate to take on the important task of working against social dumping. We've done that because we mean it doesn't matter whether you're organized or not. You should not be exposed to the kind of conditions in your working life – in any case. So the fact that we don't care about that kind of problem at all is to draw conclusions on the wrong basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1198	I just want to point out something Frank Bakke-Jensen says at the end. It is positive that Frank Bakke-Jensen and the Right are busy with employment for people, but he shows a lack of understanding of the problem if he says that no one should be exposed to such a type of employment. So in this country we have freedom of contract, and agreeing to have lower wages than others is a complete fight. This is a problem that I thought I should address in detail, because precisely in terms of the labour and social dumping aspect of labour immigration, it is extremely important that the Right is involved in the load. If the right is not concerned with doing something about social dumping, it means that we are unable to agree on a sensible labour immigration policy. I want to commend Trond Helleland for taking up this interpellation and raising this debate on labour immigration, because I think it is important that we discuss it in a complete way – that we cannot ignore the social dumping aspect if we are to ensure that we have a good policy. Let me give you an example: on the Finnmark coast, the Tromsky coast, the Nordland coast and so on, there has been a decline in the population. Then there is an increase in both the fishing industry, the workshop industry and other industries. What's going on? Well, exactly what Trond Helleland describes when he's on Fröya and visiting people. It says a lot of cars with license plates from abroad. If those plates are from abroad, and people are hired from Latvian temporary employment agencies offering lice pay to employees, that means a couple of things. First of all, it means that the low wages of those people, that part of the businesses are competitive, are due to wage dumping. It's legal under Norwegian law, but it's equal to full wage dumping. That means that there is too little pay for the people who are there working to settle in the municipality. That means it's negative for integration, because you kind of get a small community on the side that the community that's there. It also means that those people do not settle in the municipality, which means that the municipality does not receive transfers from the state or tax receipts from those people. This means that there is too little pay for the local people, those who live in the municipality and perhaps even are unemployed in the municipality, to have the opportunity to afford to work in the company. This leads to a contribution to cutting wages and salaries within an industry. In the Chamber next to us now there is a seminar under the direction of Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, our parliamentary leader, who points to the very consequences of low wages and higher pay differentials, namely the weakening of confidence in the population as a whole, as well as the loss of the leading productivity driver in Norwegian society, namely the fact that we have the highest wages in the world, which means that we have a greater degree of mechanization and industrialization than we have elsewhere. That's why I'm just saying, if the Right doesn't see the negative consequences of offering a lower level of pay to foreigners through widespread use of temporary agencies from other countries, one loses part of what's important to promote the positive development of growth, prosperity and productivity growth, which is at the bottom of everything. That's why I challenge the Right to be clear and clear: this is a serious problem. This is a problem that we will in the future be supporting the red-green government in combating, because if not the words that you want to ensure a good labour migration, worth anything. Then I want to go back and say – now I want to be positive again towards Trond Helleland, because I have to be it in between, so it's clear that I mean exactly that – that I think it's very, very good that the Right has turned its policy and goes in order that workers too should be given an integration offer. We have to remember that it was Erna Solberg and Right that just in 2004, when we received EU immigration – that is, on 1 May 2004, when we opened up immigration from some of the Eastern European countries – that the right to language training was cut off for immigrants and for others. That time it was only SV and the Center Party that were against. We saw that this was negative, because we were busy making sure that everyone who comes and wants to live in Norway would have the opportunity to learn Norwegian. I want to challenge the Right, because I think it is positive that they say that workers should be given the opportunity for Norwegian training. This goes in for both the Workers' Party and the Center's Party. It is a budgetary issue, like all other issues in this type of case, but it will be addressed in the context of the integration message. I would also challenge the Right to join in saying that the wives or men of those who are migrant workers to Norway need to receive language training, because they often attend and are in a way only partially included in today's working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1213	For the previous speaker, I would say that the Right is absolutely against social dumping. There are rules in Norway against it, there are rules against it in the EU. And then I expect that since the representative Holmås also represents a government party, the party can promote exactly those proposals for this assembly that correct the biases of such a severity, as the representative spends a lot of time explaining us to others. So we're probably going to go deeper into this. Otherwise, it is nice to hear SV's leading radar pairs actually hail some of the fruits of EU cooperation, namely the internal market. For it is what prevents Norwegian business from failing, and that large parts of the public sector do not. There is a widespread perception that the EU has established a full internal market. However, it is only recently that Germany and Austria, for example, opened up their labour markets for Eastern European entries, primarily from Poland. Gradually, integration also comes into the labour market, now that the eight newest Member States last June were fully integrated into the internal market for the free movement of labour. Bulgaria and Romania are still lacking, so we can also experience that the migrant groups, labour immigration, will change the nature and composition of the coming years. The EU Commission has estimated that a relaunch and relaunch of the internal market will give rise to some benefits. 4 pst. GDP in the EU area, which is equivalent to 500 billion. EUR, or – converted to Norwegian krone – SEK 3.5 billion, which is SEK 3 500 billion. Norwegian kroner, we got it right. They have examined 50 proposals, of which 15 are very topical. The most effective of these proposals is further labour mobility. As a legislative body, we must be concerned about this and, of course, we must also bring the labour market into line with Norwegian principles. However, I must say to the Council of State Lysbakken that when people come here, it is hardly because they have to announce a political stance or support for the Norwegian model. They come simply because they are looking for wealth, and they want to work for wealth. Then it is not the most important thing which rigid rules exist, but that they are actually jobs. Then the value chain is the following, to remind you of it: first ideas, then patents, then products and then sales, if you're busy with the private sector. That is what is needed to provide a new start for those coming from other parts of Europe. So it's not the social arrangements, it's not a compressed pay structure in and of itself as temptations, but it's the ability to earn better here than the alternative, which for them will be to be at home. So I notice that the Council of State Lighthouse uses this opportunity to argue in general against what is needed from the point of view of a company in order to assess new employment. It is then too important not to take the whole risk of new employment, but to walk the path of probation, to assess temporary employment if you are not sure that your job is in a fixed position. If you do not admit this possibility to the employer, you need to discuss other options, such as: extend the sampling times or otherwise change the risk of failure setting. You can also look at the protection against dismissal. There's several ways to do this. In any case, I would like to sum up that I am very pleased that the Council of State Lighthouses is not the responsible Council of State for Labour Market Affairs. There's another in the government, from another party. I am basically very happy with all the departments that SV does not manage, but to a particular extent this. I think we can have a nice dialogue, both to combat social dumping and to maintain some flexibility for those who take the position of hiring new employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1232	I would like to thank you for the contributions that have been made. They have largely, with some rhetorical exceptions, been supportive of it – I kept saying – the vision of making this area an important area in the integration debate ahead, and that was the purpose of the interpellation. Then we can discuss social dumping. We can discuss labour market policy. Erna Solberg stated in the evening post on 12 January that the allegations that the Right was almost in favour of social dumping fell on his own unfairness. We have voted in favour of 19 out of 24 measures promoted by the government against social dumping. Then there's another view of how to regulate the labour market that I don't want to go into this debate, but that obviously the Workers' Party and SV need to pull out. What this might also bear a little bit of a mark is that many people tend to look at immigrant workers as some poor people who come almost here with their hats in their hands, while reality, and at least my wish, is that we should exploit the positive resources of immigrants. I remember before the EEA period. Then there were many strawberry pickers in Lier – I was about to say – both doctors and rocket scientists. They were here to serve for the rest of their lives and could earn a good annual salary in a few weeks on the strawberry field. Now it's a little bit different times, because we have a more open Europe. There is more competition for the labour force. It's not part of Europe that's closed and just letting people out a few weeks in the summer. That's why we have to do what the Light Hill obviously intends to do: look at the resources that these immigrants possess, and how we can get them integrated into the Norwegian community. Finally, I want to attend Norwegian training. I would like to take up the debate on the extent to which the public will offer workers who have or have a job in Norway, and their families, Norwegian training. A lot has happened since 2005. At the same time, I have to say that I am a little surprised that the government parties are constantly avoiding answering the question: What about the migrant workers who have become unemployed? Why can't they get an offer of Norwegian training? The lighthouse mentioned in its post the one example that Bjurstrom also mentioned one year ago, when we had this case up in Stortinget, namely that Nav in Oslo and Akershus offers Norwegian training as part of the labour market measures. It should have been like this in More and Romesdal, which is the big work immigrant community. It should have been like this in Buskerud, it should have been like this all over the country. There I believe that the government must put in place a policy, because it is not about education rather than social security. Here's what it's all about to do to raise your skills for the better of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1244	I would also like to thank you for a good debate and thank the representative of Greece for a constructive tone and good input. We're going to come back to the discussion on Norwegian training in depth. There are arguments that can draw in different directions, but what is clearly of great importance is that we put in a strategy for how more workers can learn better Norwegian. That's necessary when we see how many people stay here permanently. In addition to the issues of unemployment, whether free or not, whether right or not, which are absolutely relevant, and which were addressed last time, I am also concerned about improving the opportunities for Norwegian training in the workplace, in order to combine professional practice with learning the language is often the most effective way of learning Norwegian. Furthermore, I agree with the views of Mr Bakke-Jensen on the importance of the role of Russian labour migrants in Finland. When I took over as an Inclusion Minister, one of the first things I did was to hold a series of people's meetings around the country to meet the immigrant population and get input related to integration policy. Then we met not only in the Grorud valley, but also in the Kirkenes. It was very useful and important and a good reminder that integration policies and processes are quite different in different parts of the country. The representative, Tetzschner, said that we should not be so concerned with what rigid rules exist. I am concerned with the legislation in the labour market, because we know that many of those who come to Norway are at risk of being lukewarm, of having weak rights and of having more opportunity to be exploited and of getting worse conditions than others if we do not have strong legislation. I don't think it's 'rigidity'. I think it makes sense, it's good for the individual, it's good for society and also good for the serious parts of Norwegian working life. That is why it is sad to see the Right in its alternative budget, among other things. have proposed to cut back on tripartite sectoral programmes in the fight against social dumping and to insist that the Labour Inspectorate is to fight against social dumping alone and that they will not support actions in cooperation with the trade unions concerned. It's a union creature that I find hard to understand. Tetzschner had some considerations about which departments should be governed by whom. Of course, I have a different view of it. I am happy with all the departments Right does not rule – and it is fortunately all these days!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1264	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1280	First of all, I would like to say that all of us who are concerned with child protection are now going to meet an exciting time. We are waiting with great excitement for the work that the Council of State is now doing. Hopefully, this will lead to a build-up before the next elections to make many of the necessary changes that child protection is now facing, so that we can have a well-functioning child protection that provides better care and security for vulnerable children. An increasing proportion of child-restraints is unfortunately acute. Over the period 1994–2004, there was a doubling in the use of emergency decisions, ranging from about 500 to about 500. 1 000. The sharp increase has resulted in the same number of children in this period being placed under compulsion following an emergency decision as after an ordinary decision in the county. Figures from the Central Unit for Children’s Protection and Social Affairs show that in 2010 1 360 emergency places were treated in the counties, compared with 961 planned care takeovers. This is an increase of about 40 pst. The numbers for 2011 are coming on February 15th, and it's going to be very exciting to see what the numbers show. Acute decision-making requires that child protection services have assessed that there is an acute risk to the life and health of the child. There are serious concerns and messages that form the basis for the adoption of an emergency decision on child protection. Acute movements are almost always traumatic for the children – but also for the adults in the family – and should be avoided for the longest time in the best interests of the children. Mons Oppedal’s thesis from 2007 shows that child protection has been working on average for three years with a family before emergency placement. This means that child protection has long been concerned about the child’s care situation and should know the children and the individual family situation well. In line with professional and political leadership, child protection works for the longest time to keep the family together. Research shows that when this fails, the child is moved quickly — often through an emergency position — and that is good. But I ask myself, hasn't it already gone too far when so many movements must happen urgently – considering all the traumas this is causing the child? Could the move have been carried out in another way, so that the child does not get the extra burden of being moved so quickly — often brutally and with the police present — from his own home, from the institution or from the foster home? The threshold for something becoming acute is high, and it should be, too, but when a situation that has been well known for a long time becomes acute, it's not that lucky. This development is worrying, and it is no less worrying that the government too is now seeking further distortion in the use of intervention, for more use of domestic relief measures. I'm not saying that this applies in all cases, but a lot of children's protection says that the threshold might be high, and that you could have intervened earlier to save many children from suffering that could have been avoided. Unfortunately, many times it may be that in individual cases one waits in the longest before it gets too serious. Then we have to ask ourselves if it's for the child's best. In a story I was told about a boy who was picked up by the child-rescue guard in a large Norwegian city for a while back, the police had been notified of house noise. Children and mother were taken away. The child-restraint guard later found out that the family had received various assistance from the child-restraint in the municipality for a long time. The episode that led to the babysitting guard coming in that very evening was an indication that father was violent. When the babysitter asked the boy in that family about how he had it at home, the boy – which was true – told him that he was beaten, he had been beaten for a long time, he had been beaten so long that he didn't remember how long it was the father had beaten him, and the boy wondered why it was just this evening the police and the babysitter came to pick him up, for this had happened for a long time. Child protection in the municipality had never asked or talked to the boy even about how he was doing at home. Had they asked him, they might have received answers, and they could have put in other and more correct measures earlier. This is just an example of how complex and complex this issue is and needs to be addressed in several ways. But what this shows is that we need to facilitate child protection to listen as much as possible to the children and listen to the young people along the way throughout the process. That's where we have a lot to pick up. Children and young people need to be heard more, and it can also be one of the answers to how to avoid many of the dramatic and acute decisions that have recently been seen to increase. Youths themselves say that if they had been heard, many movements and emergency positions could have been avoided. In the past, on several occasions in this Chamber, we discussed the research of Berit Skauge in Trondheim that the vote of children is almost absent in the proceedings. The rights of children and the right to influence and participation over their own daily lives are not adequately respected in today's system. We all agree that children's rights need to be strengthened, but then some improvements have to be made to today's system, improvements that may reduce the increase in the number of emergency decisions we have seen recently. In order to make the right changes in child protection, it is necessary to have knowledge and information on how children in child protection actually do. What do we know about how the individual child experiences his/her everyday life in child protection? What do they think about their case handler, about the foster home, and do the measures being taken seem to work? None of the recent investigations address the child’s perspective to a particular extent. I miss more focus on what are the children's own thoughts, the children's own experiences of how they experience child protection and their own everyday life. I hope that the government thread in the future will raise that perspective, and that there will also be much of the basis when we deal with the major child protection issue for next year. Monday this week came the investigation on the biological principle. There will be an exciting debate that we have to take here in Stortinget, which will not be a very simple debate. The sample concludes that consideration of the development of the child should outweigh the biological principle. It will affect the work of child protection and decisions on where the child is to live and on association, action and repatriation. The new principle they propose is ‘development-supporting association’, on the grounds that the quality and continuity of the interaction between children and caregivers is crucial for the development of the child. The committee proposes that the new principle should prevail over the biological principle, which is based on the basic understanding that children should primarily grow up in their biological parents. That is what we are going to discuss, very comprehensively, but it is a very necessary debate. I look forward to all the parties entering into such a discussion with a constructive approach. In the case of part of the emergency decisions, there is reason to believe that if child protection had previously taken place in some cases with heavier relief measures or with a request for care, perhaps more emergency positions could have been avoided. I, the undersigned, am concerned that many children are seriously harmed by living too long under care failure. There have also been reports in the address newspaper for the last time. The government aims to increase the use of domestic relief measures. What will the Council of State do to ensure that increased use of relief measures at home does not lead to more emergency placements?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1303	It is an important theme for the representative of Hofstad Helleland, and I would like to thank you for a constructive and interesting contribution. We are at the heart of the debate on child protection – how do we avoid unnecessary emergency positions? Would there have been fewer emergency decisions if child protection had intervened earlier? Is there any reason to believe that emergency placements are due to the threshold for taking over a child's care sometimes too high? I have heard many stories from children and young people in the time I have been responsible for child protection. Several of them have lived long with parents who failed. Most people say they think they got help too late. But then I have also heard stories from parents, from mothers and fathers, who have experienced that child protection has taken care of their children. Many of them felt that child protection intervened too quickly, and that they did not receive sufficient help in that situation. I have met a number of child-restraint children and child-restraint professionals who have asked about the threshold for taking children from biological parents is too high, whether the biological principle has too much space in child-restraint assessments and children have to live for too long under conditions that damage them. These are issues that I think are so fundamental that although they are both difficult and controversial, which were also the subject of the interpellant, it is necessary for us as politicians to discuss it thoroughly. The basis for such a debate is to have the best available knowledge on the topic. I wanted professional advice in the design of tomorrow's child protection policy. That's why I set up my own expert committee, the Raundalen Committee, which was tasked with elucidating and recommending some of the most difficult issues in the work of child protection. Never before has anyone investigated the meaning of the biological principle in this way. I think it's a big and important job. What do we know about the scope of emergency decisions? And what do we know about the reasons? Can the cause be linked to the importance and emphasis of the biological principle? The number of children in emergency care has increased in recent years, but with wide variations from year to year. It makes it difficult to identify clear trends. From 2008 to 2010, the increase in the use of emergency measures has been lower than the overall growth of child protection. However, reporting from the first half of 2011 suggests that much more emergency decisions have been taken in 2011 compared to previous years. Toril Havik, head of research at Uni Health University Research AS in Bergen, believes that child protection in addition to professional knowledge can be influenced by two strong values: one is the value of biological bonds, and the other is the value of partnership and good cooperation with parents. Havik believes that these values can lead to a child protection that is pending and that is in doubt when enough is enough. When an obvious and serious situation arises, a need to place the child in a position of emergency is triggered. A recent interim report from the evaluation we are carrying out of the administrative reform, called the difficult interaction, from NIBR, shows among others. that there are many emergency decisions in larger municipalities with social challenges. At the same time, researchers find that inter-municipal child protection uses less emergency decisions than other municipalities. The explanation is that intermunicipal work contributes to increased competence in the services of municipalities and to better prevention. Time use in healthcare has a negative impact on the use of emergency decisions. The representative of Hofstad Helleland asks what I would like to do to ensure that the government's goal of increasing the use of relief measures at home does not lead to more emergency placements. That's an important question. Good and individually adapted assistance measures need to be put in place when children and families are in need of child protection assistance. Measures to protect children must be effective. How do we make sure that that happens? Following a legislative amendment in 2009, the Child Protection Service was given a statutory obligation to evaluate the functioning of the relief measures according to their purpose. There was also a statutory obligation to assess care measures. This means that municipalities are to draw up a time-limited action plan, and they are to monitor closely how the child and its parents are doing. They shall pay particular attention to the adequacy of the assistance provided. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the aid shall be carried out on a regular basis. The aim is for the protection of children to put in place measures that contribute to positive and lasting changes for the child. Having a special look at whether the help serves the child is also something that is included in the investigation from the Raundalen Committee. The committee proposes that a time limit be laid down for the evaluation of voluntary assistance in the field of child protection and that the evaluation should be in writing. This shall ensure that effective and adequate assistance measures are put into effect in a timely manner. The Committee also recommends that child protection should be used to a much greater extent as a means of providing care. There are measures designed to improve the ability of parents to provide good care for their children. The committee would like such measures to be imposed on parents. So the question is, can such a directive help to reduce acute displacements? It's a question that I want to invite different disciplines and research environments to give opinions on in the hearing we're about to have. The NOU on the biological principle has provided many suggestions and many recordings of both a professional and a valuable nature. The report shall contribute to the development of child protection. First, as I said, the proposals must be discussed with the Stortinget through a broad consultation round. The child-restraint lift that the red-green government has started has, as you know, three main parts: one is a resource lift to ensure that enough adults are out in the municipalities to provide the children with the help they need. The second is new organisation, where we go through, among other things. cooperation between the municipality and the state to see if there are more appropriate ways to organise our child protection. The third is a new priority. This is exactly where the debate on the biological principle comes in, as well as for example. the discussion of whether we are good enough to give children influence on their own situation. All three main aspects of the child protection promise — the resource promise, reorganisation and new priorities — share the intention of helping us to improve early intervention. It's one of the most important things we can do to create a better child-restraint and to reach the children sooner. It is best for children, and it also facilitates the success of the task of child protection, which is to provide children with safety, stability and good care. A prerequisite for employees in child protection to do a good job is that they have enough capacity and competence. Strengthening municipalities by providing earmarked funds is a major and important contribution. It has not only given new jobs but also given the opportunity to strengthen skills. I am otherwise concerned that the work done by other municipal welfare services could affect the use of emergency decisions. Through good prevention, municipalities help to capture and respond to vulnerable children and young people who need it. Early intervention can prevent child protection from resorting to more drastic and interventional measures. Schools, kindergartens and health centres play an important role in detecting the need for help for children. We have come some important steps towards creating greater transparency and understanding of the need to notify child protection in the past. But it is, as we have also discussed in this Chamber before, among other things. Challenges in relation to the communication of kindergartens with the protection of children. It is part of the challenge we face in getting other welfare services to catch up with children with problems early, so that child protection can enter a phase in which it is possible to prevent emergency placement. We can never avoid that there will be children that have to be outsourced. There are situations that are so serious that acute positioning is the best solution here and now. However, the aim must be to put in place the right measures before you get into an emergency. Acute positioning shall only be used when an unexpected crisis arises in a child’s life. That is why I believe that the questions raised by the inter-pellant are important and relevant issues that deserve to be discussed here in the Chamber, and which will of course also be important questions in the matter I am going to put to the Storting before this majority period is over, on the organisation and priority of future child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1344	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, which I found very reassuring in many ways. That was a lot of good answers. I would also like to back a lot of what the council hears from the youth themselves, namely that when the young people themselves look back at a long life in child protection, most people say: I got help too late. For too long I lived at home with my mother or father. Too long the rush mother herself. Or: Too long it was the father who struck without anyone getting me away from there. Although there are also parents who say that the child was taken from them without any reason from child protection, and although child protection employees say that the threshold is often too high to intervene and move a child, it is easy to get the impression that today we have too much parental protection and too little child protection. There must in many ways be a backtrace we bring into the great and important work that we are going to do when the Council of State presents its case to next year. It is time that this happened, because too many years have now passed without us having made any of the necessary changes that need to be made. It is important that these changes are made based on facts, based on the necessary information and, not least, also on an update of what the situation is, so that we make the right decisions, and so that we make the important changes for the benefit of the children and for the benefit of the young. The right also fully agrees that the biological principle should be strong. It will always be the case that emergency placements have to be made, but what will also be important in the further debate we are going to discuss is that it does not just have to be a celebration when it is said that the child's best interests are to be decisive. Most people talk about the child's best all the way, but we have to believe that it is the child's best that should be crucial for all the decisions and priorities made by child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1355	Too much parental protection and too little child protection, says the representative Hofstad Helleland. That is exactly what I have heard many times from employees in child protection and from former and current children's protection. The interpellant certainly has that too. It is precisely because I was turned off how often it was repeated when I started travelling around Norwegian Child Protection, that I took the initiative to initiate the process that mouthed out in the Raundalen committee's investigation. It's very interesting, I think, that we can have such a starting point for this debate across political dividing lines today. It shows that there have been quite significant changes in value in Norwegian society. It's no longer like we think what's happening in the private sphere of the family, that no society around the world has anything to do with. It just shows that as a society we have come a pretty good way to realize that the principle of the child's best needs to trump other considerations. It has been no more than 10–15 years since we saw that most of the political debate on child protection in Norway was about child protection being too much – that it was very often on the agenda. Today, it is almost exclusively about examples of child protection being too small. It gives the Storting and the Government a space to see what kind of political changes we should make that enable child protection to act in line with the value changes we see around us. Me and the Swedish Government fully agree that the biological principle should exist, but what is the question is how different principles should be weighed against each other. There's my starting point about the same thing as interpellantence: we have to ask questions about whether the child's best is really something that always trumps other considerations when the child's best is at stake. I'm afraid that it's not really that it always does. That's why we've got the Raundalen committee. That is why we are going to have a further debate and, hopefully, also concrete changes under the heading of ‘New priority’ in the context of the child protection promise and the treatment of future organisation by the Stortinge. It is my hope that changes in this direction, both in terms of reviewing the principles of child protection, in terms of changes in the way they are organised, and in terms of strengthening resources out in the first line, will ensure that fewer children come under the care of child protection in the least fortunate way – namely by putting them in an acute position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1368	I share the interpellant's concern for children who suffer from long-term care failure. I think this debate is now very good, because now we are at the core of some of the concerns that I think everyone has when it comes to the challenges of child protection. Despite the fact that one still has major challenges in this area, it is good to know that in recent years more children have been able to help than in the past, both by reporting that more people are being used, but also by developing new methods, increasing resources and increasing competence in the field. Children’s protection has also been given a much greater place in the social debate and in the money bag. One in recent years has seen an increase in the number of concerns messages, and I choose to believe that this is a consequence of the lower reporting threshold, but still not enough. KS's key voice report shows that municipalities have significantly increased their efforts to help more children than ever before. Acute positioning is never a good solution, but absolutely necessary in some circumstances where one has not been able to discover the need before. It must clearly be an objective to avoid too many emergency situations, and I am therefore pleased that the government will review how the various measures actually work, and explore their use in relation to positive changes. Overall, the overall strengthening of child protection and the further strengthening of the child protection system will be important. When reporting on the need for emergency accommodation, it is very important that it is implemented in a good way, that child protection knows how to act, and that it is done in as good a way as is advisable to those who have happened. In 2008, Norway was actually the first country in the world to start researching emergency child placements, because one had seen that there were great variations in the way it was carried out. One has seen that some people have a good, thoughtful device that takes into account all the possible stress reactions, including natural reactions from both children and biological parents in such a situation. Important factors have been the development of routines and the learning of others. It is equally important that the apparatus, on the other hand — the ones to receive the children — is banned, qualified and safe for the children, and that the biological parents are also taken care of and given the help they need. The Children's Protection Professional has given us the "Communication 1: The Good Child Protection", as they call it. These are experiences from children and young people in the whole country living under child protection, about 200 young people between 10 and 20 years of age. I mean just like the interpellant said, it's important to listen to those who have experience and opinions about how child protection is and should be. They themselves have said in their proposal that support contacts, as an example, need to be followed up better, that they need to strengthen the system of visits, which is what they want us to call it – because there are some good suggestions for a user's involvement in child protection. Listening to the children and letting the children participate is, in my view, very important. For example, municipalities that have been very active in the health care service have fewer emergency messages for the protection of children. KS's key voice report shows that kindergarten, school and police are now cooperating better with the Child Welfare Service than before, which is crucial to strengthening efforts at an early stage. I also believe that competence in the development of children, the risk factors, the general child protection service and the auxiliary services must be strengthened more in pre-school and teacher training. Those who work with their children several hours a day need to know more about how, together, we can help to strengthen the early effort needed. As both the Council of State and the inter-pellant have mentioned, the Raundalen Committee, with its report, came this week, proposing a new principle in addition to the biological one, and that it should take precedence. I think we should listen to this. I also believe that it will be important in relation to the problem we are now discussing. As many cases end up as emergency cases where a person has already received relief measures, the biological principle — or the weighting of the principle — may have led to greater doubts as to when enough is enough, as the Council of State says. It may also mean that the relief has not been good enough or that it has not been right. I mean that the starting point, helping children and families in the home, is good as long as it's for the child's best, and I have faith in people's ability to change through help and support. At the same time, I think that the threshold of taking a child out of the world may seem too high. I am aware that taking a child out of the world is serious, but it is even more serious if children grow up in a home that is harmful to them. There are serious issues that child protection should solve, and the most important thing that politicians can do is to facilitate both resources and empowerment, so that they can do their job in the best possible way and for the benefit of their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1389	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting this on the agenda. Like the interpellant, the opposition – at least the Progress Party – is very excited about the time ahead of us now, and the matter that comes to Stortinget. What's a little bit of a problem is that the opposition is very impatient. We think it is a pity that the matter has not come before, but we also understand that it is being worked thoroughly, so that we can get a real case that will allow us to get better child protection. It's a difficult topic, and when I listen to the speakers who have been there now, they talk about the best of children. All the way you talk about children's best, children's best. What is child's best? Perhaps we should have had a debate on the definition of the «best of children»? Perhaps we should also change it to ‘children’s rights’, that it is better to have ‘rights’ in relation to the Convention on Human Rights? When the Raundalen Committee presents in its report that we should attach this to the Children's Protection Act, I hope it is a signal that the Council of State Lighthouse will bring with it. The Council of State was aware that the threshold for child protection intervention, often too high, or that the threshold is too low. I guess that's what child protection is in a nutshell, because for every case where we see that child protection came into the picture too late, and there's a look at it, we can also show examples of child protection coming in too early. It is this that makes it so difficult with these matters. What's important is what's going to define the best of children? What is the definition of the problem of child protection? What should the threshold be to take the kids out of the home? If there is a suspicion of violence, assault and intoxication, the Progress Party believes that child protection must intervene as quickly as possible. Interpellanten’s theme is acute placements. We see very often – and it is serious – that the right offers are not available at emergency locations. It is important for the majority to be in relation to prevention — to focus on the fact that the health care provider, that function, and kindergartens have a lower threshold for reporting to child protection and not least to school and police. But I think that the health sister, who sees the little family who might need help, or suspect something, is an underestimated instance. It is worrying when you see that a lot of municipalities are reducing and unable to strengthen the health sister function. It's important that we play together for the families, and not least for the children. Then it is important to get help at home as early as possible, so that we can try to help these children. Then we know that it is important – and Raundalen also said in his report – to improve and strengthen the interaction between parents and children. Several of the reports that have come to light point to the importance of early prevention. When you go to the drastic step that you have to take children out of your home and the state is going to take that responsibility, it's important to have a good offer in place for these children. We just see too often that a lot of these kids have to move. There is one case in Bergen's Official Journal in the near future that shows that very many children move up to five and six times in a few years. It's not durable. There's something we have to look at, and I expect the Council of State to take care of it too, because this government has deliberately built up a lot of institutions to help foster families. That might be good because you think that a foster family is more like a normal family. But not all kids are equal. Some kids need a reinforced foster home, some need other foster homes, and some need institutional places. That's why it's important, at least as the Progress Party sees, that we need to have a diversity in treatment places for these children, because when you take a child out of an insecure situation in a family, it's important to provide security for these children, so that they get the security they haven't had before. It is therefore important to put in place good measures. It's a good initiative to take this interpellation. I think we're going to have more debates on child protection before the government brings up a case. I hope that this is taken quickly. I'm not going to go into any particular detail on the report, because I think we'll have to discuss it quite often in the future in relation to the biological principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1415	When I took the train here today, I was sitting there looking at a young woman and what was most likely her first child. She puzzled and stilted with the little, expensive, chattered and actually sang a small couch wool as well. That's how all children should have the right to have it. You can hardly imagine anything sadter than a neglected – let alone forgotten child. On the other hand, it's also hard to get into a parent's mind that doesn't have the power to be a mother or a father. The development that the interpellant has made very well known is alarming. So in ten years there has been more than a double in the use of emergency decisions. It is important that we, as politicians and fellow human beings, constantly seek answers as to whether the rights of the child and its parents are properly respected in these matters. The sharp increase has resulted in more children being placed under compulsion following an emergency decision, in fact more than after the ordinary decisions in the county. In the case of young people with serious behavioural problems, the figure is even higher. After an emergency decision, it may also take a very long time before it is replaced by an ordinary decision. In some cases, there may be up to eight to nine months. When thinking about small children, it may be difficult to reverse the decision because the child has developed a relationship with the location in the meantime. Public child protection has no longer roots than the middle of the last century. It was only when the Children's Protection Committee was established in 1947 that it was formalized by five different laws, three of which still constitute the tribe of what we know as child protection today. One of the points of the interpellant was the need for the child’s voice to be heard in these cases. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was incorporated into Norwegian law in 2003, has strengthened the right of children to be heard and seen. A few years ago, seven-year-olds were defined as being too immature to speak in assault cases. We go even further back, to the 1930s, the children's opinion was actually characterised as a lie. In an interview in research.no, first amannuensis Berit Bae expressed in pre-school education at the University of Oslo that the emphasis on the verbal language was also a problem. The community has given greater space to children's voice, but we've been too busy with the verbal. This has affected not only the smallest children who cannot express themselves verbally but also children who have problems and children with a minority background. She's concerned that we should also listen to other languages, not just to the words, but to body language, music, drawing and singing. Acute decisions under the Child Protection Act are significant interventions in the lives of children and parents and involve difficult balances between the protection and assistance considerations and the privacy of the implicated. However, it must not be the case that the need to keep the family together overshadows what is best for the child, which has been in the hands of others. The right is very concerned with ensuring the rights of the child. It is therefore very important to arrive at the best solutions on these issues. Municipalities say that they have to give priority to matters, in other words give priority to children who need help, while we know that there is free capacity in private institutions and foundations. We don't want it like that. The right will facilitate the diversity of child protection services through predictable framework conditions, including for private child protection institutions. The private intervention apparatus plays an important role in child protection in Norway. 52 pst. of all institutional positions provided for by the Act on Child Protection Services, are privately owned. It is possible to reduce the waiting time for children in this queue and to wait for permanent resettlement at home, and to ensure that they receive a customised high-quality offer in time, if that percentage is increased. Every little child has his or her own story. It's not always easy to get it right from the beginning. Children in Norway have seen it materially well if we compare ourselves with other countries, but material standards do not say anything about children’s experience of happiness. Even in Norway, there are children who have stopped dreaming. Studies show that Norwegian children are placed in the third most recent place in Europe in order to measure their mental well-being. It's actually a cross of thought. Unfortunately, all the stories testify that it is still a long way to go until we have child protection in Norway that is really a protection for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1447	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic, an important interpellation, and for a very good and constructive opening inlay. Then I would like to thank the rest of the debaters who have followed that tone. It would have been very nice if the tone of the child protection debates in the future in Stortinget also had this dignity and constructiveness. Child protection is an institution that is getting more and more trust from people and from society. We see that by increasing the number of enquiries. The paradox is that the more confidence child protection is given, the more work they get. I choose, as the representative, to see the growing demands on child protection as a sign of an increase in the confidence in child protection, and not necessarily of children in Norway getting worse. Just this dissatisfaction has led to part of the understaffing we have seen in child protection, which our government has taken on through the child protection promise and the earmarked funds for child protection positions. I think it's important that we see this debate and the debate on the increasing number of emergency positions as part of that picture, and that child protection needs people, resources, to put in effort early. It is necessary to introduce measures earlier. We've also seen examples of child protection getting access that they don't have the resources to address. So I believe that what we have now started with the child-restraint lift is an important measure in this way. Otherwise, the discussion of when it's right to intervene is the most difficult. I have to say I'm incredibly impressed by those who do that job out there. A quick search on the Internet will show that child-responsive child-responsive workers are also being massively hottered on the Internet. Without my having a research basis for that, I think it might also be a factor that makes it difficult to intervene, precisely because you see that it can be so devastating for the parents who are being taken away from their kids. It's a tough assessment to take. I believe that the figures that the interpellant showed, and the experience we have seen from child protection, show that child protection is too late and too little – I think we have to admit that. In this context, the Raundalen Committee is incredibly important. We have to take the discussion: Is biology always the best? I don't think anyone here thinks so, but it's a big and difficult debate that we have to take. Part of that debate is about when it is right to intervene, when it is right to implement a care takeover, but it is also about what happens after a care takeover has been carried out. When a child has been in the safety of which the representative Horne was so concerned, shall it be permanent, or for how long shall the child be unsure whether to return to the biological parents? It is also a debate. Should we introduce an annual limit? Eventually, it may be that the biological parents become fit to be parents, but perhaps the children have attached new ties to a new home and need to be there. Maybe that'll be right. It is a difficult but important debate to take. Otherwise, like the interpellant, I will burn to hear the voice of young people and children. We have carried out the first user survey in the history of child protection. For the first time, we have carried out systematic work to check what the children in child protection think about their own situation. It is a work we must continue to do, and we have systematically strengthened the rights of children in the last few years – there was a representative from within – to be heard, and that is a work we must continue to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1464	Thanks to the interpellant for raising an important debate – it is an important topic. Interpellence raises the question of the increase in the number of emergency decisions in the field of child protection and of the use of relief measures in this context. It raises the question: how long is it right to use help when it does not seem to work? And that again raises the debate on the biological principle. It raises the question of whether we are using the right help measures. The timing for the debate is so good, as on Monday we got a NOU on the biological principle. It is an important debate. The report is a very good craft from the sample and should be of great importance. At the same time, there is an expert investigation, as the mandate and composition of the sample are. Then it is we politicians, and through a broad public debate, who have to make the final human rights-related balances, and not least we have to look in an overall context at how to help people who need it, through the means we have in our welfare society. The councils illustrated the dilemma that he has had stories – as many of us have experienced – where young people are heard to say that they were getting help too late, and where parents are heard saying that child protection intervened too quickly. There's such a big debate going on here, that if my post leaves more questions than answers, it's all right. But I hope the questions get hanging, and that we can spend more time going into them, because here I don't think either of us have all the answers. I think it's often the way both stories are right. Yes, when a child is injured after care failure, the help has been too late. Then it may also be true that the parents didn't get the help they needed, as the council said, and maybe it's even right in one case. Yes, because a child is injured due to care failure, we have intervened too late. Too much parental protection is often the ‘diagnosis’. So it may often be that the parents in question did not get the help they needed, not that it was not right to take the kid out – but maybe both of them are right? The mother who did not deal with drug problems may not have received the drug treatment she needed. The mother who got rid of mental problems might not get the psychiatric offer she needed, whether it was right to take her kid out or not. Because if that's right, we have to ask ourselves: in what other areas of the welfare community is it that we are content if we've only helped one in a family that's struggling? We have to ask ourselves the question: is it good child protection to leave a mother with mental problems in her home with her greatest trauma that has just been triggered by us taking the kid away from her, without her ever getting the help she needs, getting a help offer? That's where we are today. We need to see child protection in the context of the other instruments we have in the welfare community, so that we meet both the young and the parents and help them with the problems. Then we have to take the kids out when that's right. Then we also need a slightly larger debate on what is the alternative, because it is not always that the option of letting the child become is a stable life and relationship with caregivers. On the contrary, it turns out that the option is often an emergency home for nine months, foster home for two years, new foster home for two years, institution and then foster home – and then we justify it with connection! So let's think about that a little bit. I'm glad it looks like the debate shows that we agree that the best thing for the child is to go ahead when there are contradictions between the best and the biological principle of the child. But I really hope that the debate doesn't stop there, but that the best of the child becomes a broad discussion about how we help the child and the family, the mother and father of the child, so that we set ourselves as a welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1481	I would like to thank you for a very good and interesting debate. This question is just one of the very, very big challenges we are facing in our work to improve child protection. In fact, the increase in the number of children who have been helped by child protection has been over 50 pst. in the last ten years – that's a lot. About 3 pst. by all children in the country today receive assistance from child protection. With an increase in the need for child protection on the level of what we have had in the last two years, we will have doubled in just eight years the number of children in need of child protection. It tells us a little bit about the huge challenges we're facing in this field. At the same time as this increase, we see that already too many children suffer from care failure. There are too many children who feel that the cases are being dismissed, that they are not being helped. We see that unfortunately, the human rights of children in child protection are broken every day, because the child's voice is so absent, and because children's rights and influence over their own everyday lives are often completely absent. Then it must be the law of the opposition in Stortingen to point out that there is a need for change, and that one has to act, for it is, after all, the same government that has managed child protection for almost eight years, without much being done to change the situation. Right promise that we will be very constructive, but we also promise that we will be impatient to help all the kids who are not doing well. Then I hope that the government parties will be able to stand up to their demands, that they will be able to accept that a part of today's practice is being asked, and that we can have a good debate in Stortinget without the government parties going in defense. I hope you can meet in a good debate, where we respect that all of us who are concerned with child protection have one goal in mind, and that is to give the kids a better everyday life. I hope that what comes out of this will help all the kids who today need the best of what Norwegian child protection can give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1493	I can assure the interpellant that we are going to be very open to recordings about changing Norwegian child protection. I am not a conservative man, and I have continuously challenged Norwegian child protection and raised the issue of a change in the time I have been responsible for. The debate that we're going to debate about the place of biology in child protection, related to whether we're good enough to always base the child's best on, can go across some of the usual political divisions, and I agree that it raises a number of issues that I think are difficult for all parties and for all of us. Going in and taking care of children is the most serious society can do to individuals, and that is the most intrusive thing we can do to families and to parents. It is not possible to go to the debate on the conditions for that without being very serious. At the same time, it would be to neglect not to do so, precisely because society, child protection and our values have changed so much as we have talked about in this debate. I record that both the selection Magne Raundalen has led, and the Children's Protection Panel has been very concerned not only with this with the threshold of child protection involvement, but also with what kind of offer biological parents get when child protection has taken care of. From both sides it comes, I believe, constructive proposals on how we can build greater support around these parents, which, of course, are in a very difficult situation. Although it may not often seem the most popular people in the child protection debate, I think that all of us who work with children often experience that we are being approached by parents in such a situation. Of course, it is also disappointing – and important for us to focus on. The aim of child protection is to ensure stability, safety and good care for the child. Of course, this means that whether emergency placements, relief measures or care take-over are not carried out through emergency accommodation, it is quite obvious that both the outcome and the legitimacy of child protection depend on the fact that we also have a good enough offer for those children to be placed away from home. This means that it is not possible to take this discussion without also continuing our work for more and better foster homes and for better institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1508	That is when the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1514	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1566	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1586	In Case No: 5, 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-09.ana.ud2281e1598	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
