ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e80	The representatives of Laila Davøy, Svein Roald Hansen and Irene Johansen, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on study leave from 7 May to 11 May from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the leave of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen for the period from 7 May to 10 May to take part in the trip with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Svalbard On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: for the Province of East-Agder: Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski 7-10. May For Nordland County: Kari Storstrand 7.–10. May
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e126	Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski and Kari Storstrand are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e132	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Geir-Ketil Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Geir-Ketil Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e142	Before we deal with today's issues, the President will be allowed to wish the President of the Folketing, Mogens Lucketoft, and his delegation cordially welcome to Norway. [[Applause from the centre]] It is a great pleasure to welcome the delegation. We hope that there will be an interesting and pleasant stay, and that through it we will further develop our close cooperation and the good relationship between our two parliaments. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e160	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e174	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e183	The opinion concludes that, with the exception of the proposer, the entire Committee is required to annex the present proposal to the minutes. As rapporteur of the case, I shall make a few comments on the issues raised in the case. Winding up or seeking to abolish the tax on free mobile telephony raises several questions. Firstly, and that is the most important question: The majority, as I understand it, clearly believe that the benefits in kind of being able to have a free mobile phone and other means of communication are in line with other types of benefits in kind that can be obtained, either as a worker or in other contexts, and that, naturally, according to the Norwegian tax system, are taxed in kind, regardless of whether the employer would cover the costs or have minimal costs in the future, because, for example, he did. achieve economies of scale or discounts which actually make it cheaper to finance overall. Nevertheless, it is fully in-kind that taxpayers receive and are naturally produced for taxation. It is also the case – and it is also stated by the Ministry of Finance in the exchange of letters in connection with the preparation of the case – that many of the reasons behind the taxation of such benefits in kind are, of course, based on a principle of equality, by the fact that, unlike those who do not, they actually have to tolerate being subject to taxation. In addition, we know that in terms of these benefits and benefits in kind received by taxpayers, the economic benefit actually varies to a certain extent. Prices are fluctuating. Recently, we have seen that it is cheaper — yes, in many respects — but it is also true that much of the increased use of communication, both as a worker and as a private person, contributes to the greater benefit of such a service, not only by providing cheaper services but also by making more use of it — both in terms of mobile telephony and other forms of communication — and that is in favour of maintaining taxation, as today’s system puts it. The other ratio is the question of how to do this. There, at least from the Labour Party, I would point out and stress very strongly that this form of stencil taxation has so far proved to be a very great advantage. It saves bureaucracy for employers, and not least for those who receive this type of benefit, to have such a template. It is my opinion that the kind of stencil we have in mobile telephony and telecommunications is actually a great advantage. It is easy to enforce and provides few opportunities for circumvention. Then I am also pleased that the Ministry of Finance – of course – is making assessments of where the limits on the amounts are to be set. It's quite natural to do that and see how this develops. I have the confidence in the Ministry of Finance and the government that this work uses the natural budget rounds to see if there is a basis for changing the limits of money – and how the limits actually happen. I also remind you that to the extent that one should aim towards a total liquidation of the tax on free mobile telephones, it has a significant proceeds, which would make it difficult to make such an operation almost overnight or in the revised national budget. In my opinion, it's also hard to do it for the next year's budget, all the time this is useful for the public to bring with it, as it is with the revenue you have in respect of taxes. That is largely the reason why we believe that this proposal should be dealt with in the way the majority opposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e205	Thank you to the President-in-Office, even if we did not win this time. The left supported the introduction of the stencil rules for the taxation of free telephone and other electronic communications services, because it was both sensible and simplistic. Now that we are proposing changes to what we have previously supported, it is because developments in this area have gone at record speed since the introduction of the stencil rules. This applies to the price of services, but also to what a mobile phone can be used for, and to the input of computer boards, which was not an electronic means of communication when the rules were introduced. While a mobile phone in 2006 was essentially a medium for conversations and text messages – some advanced ones could be used for e-mail and a simple form of web surfing – most mobile phones today are actually more advanced than many PCs were in 2006. Very many companies now use exclusively mobile phones and no longer have fixed telephones in the workplace. There are very few employees who have their own private mobile phone in addition to the one they need in the job context. In addition, costs related to mobile use/calls have been drastically reduced. Very many types of subscriptions actually mean free use of the phone. The advantage for individuals to use the same telephone in private as for work is, in fact, an advantage that is no longer of economic importance for the employer, and it is therefore very doubtful whether this can be called a service in kind, which should be taxed. Moreover, this development has led many employers to communicate with their employees in addition to normal working hours, through electronic communications paid by just the employer. The Left is very pleased that the Minister of Finance has announced that he will assess whether the current amounts and rates are still appropriate. Nothing would have happened if the Left had not tabled this proposal for a representative. I look forward to such a review taking place fairly quickly, and ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that this will happen in the context of the 2013 state budget. What is not quite so pleasing is the cash rejection of the Left's proposal to abolish the tax on so-called free cell phone, which all parties are behind. I have previously shown in my post that there are very many employees who are required to have a mobile phone in their job situation, and who are expected to be available in addition to normal working hours. For many reasons — including environmental ones — it appears that they have little use for having their own private cell phone in addition to the one they are required by the employer to have. This is going to be economically very wrong. However, if you have your own private mobile phone and use it for private calls, you are taxed today for use during working hours – and for employers. It can hardly be said to be a particularly fair tax. In addition, it is obvious that jobs that only use mobile phones have higher costs related to mobile telephony than fixed-phone jobs. Ergo is getting the bill higher, and the tax is getting higher as a result. Once again, not particularly fair, as the left sees it. I see the objections that have been raised to change the legislation in relation to the revised national budget, which will come in a few days. The left has therefore re-examined the proposal to apply from 2013 onwards, and changes should therefore take place in the overall tax regime of the State budget for 2013. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal in the vote – for which I have now argued reasonably well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e228	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e231	Mr Storberget said in a good way that the Progress Party can most of the time join. The taxation of actual benefits from the employer is a good principle. This also applies to private use of the telephone paid by employers. Of course, it is not easy to decide what is the private use of the telephone, and what is the private use of the telephone due to the employer. Finding out of such conditions is both inappropriate and resource-intensive. We have experienced that before, when that was the practice. It is therefore reasonable that the employer’s payment of the employee’s use of communications services, as introduced in 2006, should be based on a systematic tax, i.e. the possibility of taxed use, not the actual use. The Party considers that it may be useful to review the regulatory framework for the taxation of employer-paid telecommunications services, not least in the light of the rapid technological developments in this area and the fact that competition in the market has pushed prices down. So it's good that the blue parties have brought up competition in the market. With the reluctant support of the Workers' Party, we have also had prices down, and the issue is not as topical as it was before. The gradual increase in the flexibility of working life, while increasing the number of people working outside what was previously mentioned as normal working hours, calls for regular review of the regulatory framework. The Progress Party notes that, in its reply to the Committee on the ground of the case, the Council of State also sees the need for this. However, the progress party is a bit over the Left's proposal to abolish all taxes on the use of mobile phones. This will probably be popular with many, but at the same time a little principleal approach to fiscal policy. When the proceeds of such tax relief in 2006 were SEK 1.1 billion. kr, it is natural to believe that the amount is significantly higher today. The Progress Party wants significant tax relief, but we do not support such a priority. The Progress Party therefore does not support the Left's proposal, and we obviously look forward to the alternative government budget for the Left in 2013, which will then include – perhaps – up to 2 billion. kr in this form of tax relief. That'll be interesting. We're going to follow it with argus eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e246	I want to come up with a few considerations. I would also like to refer to the statement made by the rapporteur, whom I think went through the matter in a good way, and so far also to the previous article, which was also clear in its form – to put it that way. It is important to underline the main principle here, and it is that benefits gained through work are taxable profit. Clearly, there may be differences of opinion, and there may be a slight difference between being an employer or an employee, but it is now that when an employee uses the employer's mobile phone, the employee will normally save money. That means that there is an economic advantage present. It can also be argued that many employers who are in a strong negotiating position as wholesalers of a mobile phone provider can achieve good conditions. But that's essentially not the point. The point is that it is not the additional cost for the employer itself, but that the employee himself had to pay for the service, which is the starting point for the template taxation. So I think it's important and right that we have the system that we have today. It may well be argued that in some cases the taxable benefit for employees may exceed what the employer actually pays for the benefit. But, as I said, there is no reason to limit the employee’s tax liability to the employer’s additional costs. Another aspect that none of the previous speakers have had is that this also has some similarities in itself. In principle, it would be unfortunate if benefits received by employees from the employer were not taxed, whether in cash or in kind. It's not an advantage that everyone has. Tax exemptions for employers-funded mobile telephones could also constitute a significant discrimination against taxpayers, so it is also a factor that should give weight to the case. I therefore believe that today's legislation is working satisfactorily. It is an appropriate model for both employers and employees, not least in relation to the previous legislation, where one had a bureaucratic and heavy-duty system. Having said that, I think it is appropriate to assess whether the amount limits and rates should be corrected as a result of the general production of this type of service, which has become cheaper, and whether the service provision we have today makes changes to the legislation. I want to be clear that the way to go is not to liquidate the benefit tax for an employer-funded mobile phone. But I want to go through the legislation, and in order to meet the proposer, I intend to also review when we come to the 2013 budget – which will be presented later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e264	First, I want to reassure the committee that this proposal is being phased into the alternative budget of the Left. But then to the question. In my article I showed two major inconsistencies in today's legislation. One is that you are taxed on an employer’s mobile phone in any case – even if this phone is something you are required to have, and even if you have your own private phone. The second is that the total cost of mobile telephony is obviously higher for employees in enterprises that only have mobile telephones and not fixed telephones in addition, resulting in increased taxation for individual employees. As is not known, private use of the company's fixed telephone is taxed, even if it is a private advantage. Does the Minister of Finance think that this makes ‘taxation of free telephones work satisfactorily’, as he writes in the letter to the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e271	As I said in my answer, I believe that today's system is an appropriate and good order. But as I also said in my answer, we are willing to look at how this works, not least in the light of technological developments and also the fact that mobile telephony over time has become more reasonable. But it is in the nature of the matter that when you have a template, it means that it kind of hits the same and different equally. To put it that way: Some people may feel that they are using the phone little, but get a high tax – and vice versa. But it's basically the nature of the stencil rules. The alternative would be a very costly and bureaucratic system, if one were to go on actual expenditure. So I think today's system is reasonable and correct. But I am willing to look at the device, and I will, as I said, come back to it in connection with the budget for 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e279	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e297	I address in the interpellation the question of using the price mechanisms, tax and tax policies, actively in order to achieve the agreed goal of the Stortingen in health policy, to focus significantly more on prevention in the years to come, and to balance social health differences. We know much more about the causes of health problems and serious diseases now than we did for – let's say – 15–20 years ago. We know that the way of life affects very much a number of non-infectious diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes, cancer and lung diseases. The main factors here are smoke, alcohol, diet and physical activity. We know that cardiovascular diseases, lung cancer and chronic diseases account for nearly 60 pst. in the case of differences in mortality before the age of 67 — between those with short and those with long education. Here, it must be added that the World Health Organisation recognises that health behaviour is not only a result of individual choices but also related to social conditions and structural factors. In connection with the treatment of the Interaction Reform, the National Health Plan and the new Public Health Act last June, these knowledge were used. The conclusion was clear and clear: significant efforts should be made on prevention. Early efforts in the health system and primary prevention form the basis for the new Public Health Act. As one of the overall objectives, it also aims to reduce social health inequalities. If we are to achieve the objective in this area, it must be active, targeted and coordinated policy by the state in all areas of health, in schools, culture, transport, the environment and, above all, in fiscal policy. Tax policy affects the prices of alcohol, tobacco and food. The relatively high taxes on alcohol and tobacco in Norway have an important health policy justification. I believe that an active charging policy for food is not as clear. What clearly affects health negatively, according to the Health Directorate, is sugar, salt, and saturated fields. The foods that have a positive effect on health are vegetables, fruit, coarse cereal products and fish. In NOW 2007: 8 An assessment of excise duties is considered to be an instrument of health policy. The Health and Welfare Committee, as previously mentioned, has also underlined this in its position on the budget for the year. The country must use the price instruments much more and actively to achieve these changes. Now I have been very clear about what I think about using these instruments in price policy to achieve positive results in the health of the population. My question to the Minister of Finance is: To what extent are price instruments suitable for improving diets, and what priority should be given to measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e318	There is an important issue in general raised by the representative, since it is beyond doubt that good nutrition is important both for personal health development and for well-being. For this reason, Norwegian health authorities have been working for several years to reduce the incidence of health problems caused by poor diets in the population. A sensible and good diet also helps to save health expenditure on the state budget. The last Health Directorate report states that the diet has evolved positively over a long period of time. Consumption of vegetables and fruit has increased significantly. The consumption of sugar has decreased in the last ten years, but it is still significantly higher than recommended. Showers and candies are the main sources of sugar. Fat levels were also reduced from the mid-1970s to the early 1990s, but in recent years the decrease in saturated fat levels has stopped and increased again. Despite a number of positive developments in recent years, health authorities point out that diets in large parts of the population still have clear nutritional weaknesses. It contributes, as the representative said, to the development of different types of disease, e.g.: cardiovascular, cancer, obesity and type 2 diabetes. According to health authorities, one of the main challenges facing us in the future is to increase the consumption of fruit, green, coarse cereal products and fish. At the same time, the intake of saturated fat, salt and added sugar by the population should be reduced. So the question is, how can you achieve that? It is generally accepted that price affects people’s behavior. Typical examples are excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. Otherwise, it means that these charges help to increase the price and reduce the consumption of such goods. There is reason to believe that taxes on unhealthy foods could have a similar effect. But the challenge is that it is a little more complicated to find good fiscal instruments on unhealthy food compared to having more accurate taxes on alcohol and tobacco. There are several factors that need to be assessed if a fee is to be used as an instrument. In a public investigation that we dealt with in 2007, the Excise Excise Commission, it was said that health-related charges should be set in such a way as to cover, on a marginal basis, costs of the environment and/or community. This could be done, for example, by: expenditures related to the treatment of diseases resulting from unhealthy lifestyles, there may be circumstances in which the consumer may underestimate the effects of special foods or special means over time on his own health. And the last is that consumers do not take sufficiently into account the long-term effects of their consumption, or simply choose to ignore the fact that it has adverse effects. Another important premise is that any charge should help to influence or reduce consumption. In the course of this extension, one must also consider that the charge on a type of goods may distort consumption on other goods which are not necessarily more healthy than the goods you charge. In other words, there are significant challenges to the broad charging of diets. Another effect that we often discuss in the staging hall is so-called unintended effects – I look at the representative Gundersen who lives in a border municipality in Sweden – increasing border trade. It's clear there's such things that you also have to include in this picture. Then there are some legal and practical matters that need to be taken care of. It must be affordable administratively, one should also not have too complicated rules, and one must be able to verify that this works fairly properly and rationally. Another aspect that I would like to mention is international relations, for example. special conditions linked to customs duties and charges, which discriminate against trade between countries. So there are many arguments that can be put forward against using excise duties, but I come back to an opportunity at the end of the post. Today we have three different excise duties on sugar products – if one then addresses the searchlight. There is a charge on non-alcoholic beverages, a charge on chocolate and sugar confectionery and a charge on pure sugar. The Excise Tax Committee recommended that these three charges be replaced by a general sugar levy in food and beverages. In consultation with the Ministry of Health, we have assessed whether it is possible to impose such a general sugar levy. Some of the things we have encountered as an obstacle in that regard to trying to get at a decent fee is that there are no pan-European rules on how to label the nutritional content of foods – because some of these are also imports. However, in the autumn of 2011, the EU adopted a new regulation on food information and that regulation lays down requirements for the labelling of a total quantity of sugars in the product. However, there is no requirement to label the content of the product with added sugar. Foods with added sugars are the main food for which health authorities wish to reduce consumption. In addition, the Regulation does not require a nutrition declaration for products in small packages. Therefore, the Regulation is not appropriate as a basis for charging added sugar in food. In consultation with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance will consider other changes to current taxes on chocolate and sugar confectionery. In particular, it is appropriate to consider whether the fee can be extended to more energy-tight and nutrient-poor products than at present. It is too early to say what will come out of this work, but we aim to come back to this issue and to an assessment of these issues in connection with the 2013 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e346	I thank the Council of State for the answer and see the answer as positive. Here, it is announced that you will consider different fees and look at the assessment, among other things. the sugar levy as a measure to influence consumption positively. The Council of State said that increasing the levy in many areas could lead to a turnaround in consumption in other areas, other foodstuffs, which are not equally health-friendly. Here it is very important to find out – as in my interpellation, in my question – that you should increase the prices and charges of unhealthy foods, in order to put it simply, you must also be able to put them on healthy foods. For example, VAT on fruit and vegetables is an important issue in this context. You have to see this in a whole and equally stimulating way to use healthy foods. So it's important to look at this in a long-term perspective. The positive effects will not occur overnight or in a short time; this must be seen in a long-term perspective. When the Council of State mentions the EU and the measures adopted in the EU in relation to consumer policy, I would just like to stress that it is important that Norway – where we have the opportunity to influence – should influence in the same direction. To put it simply, unhealthy foods are becoming more expensive, and healthy foods are becoming cheaper, because all European countries face the same challenges in this area. But I thank you for the answer and I can see that this is going to be positive. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important that national policies in this area prevent and link, so that what happens in the field of taxation is related to what we do in schools, culture, health and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e359	I am attached to one of the last things the representative said: one thing is now what we can achieve through general fiscal policy, another thing is what we can achieve through other policy instruments. I think it is also important here – as in so many other contexts – to stress the responsibility we have as individuals, the responsibility we have as parents to build up under good and healthy eating habits. It is also true that this is not only a matter of concern to Norway, for this is also happening in a wide range of other countries, that diet and lifestyle diseases are causing a high cost to the individual and to society. I certainly believe that Norway is good at international level, and that there are many positive aspects to public health in Norway. So I just want to make a comment on the question of VAT: This is of course something that may be nearby, but it is quite complicated to use the VAT for that type of purpose, because it will give significant delimitation issues, and therefore the control side and the administrative costs can also be heavy and high. So I think the way to go, in case, is to see if it is possible in this round to find a good excise duty, and then preferably see if it is possible to get a uniform sugar charge, which I think is the track we want to pursue in this context. And as I said, we will come back to this in connection with the 2013 state budget. Then Denmark has introduced a fat tax. It came last autumn. It may be that there may also be an element in this debate, but it is too early to say anything about the experience with the Danish tax. I think it makes sense for a person to look at what is happening in Denmark before considering any similar situation in Norway. So we're going to continue working on a possible sugar levy, while once again stressing the responsibility we have, individually and collectively, to promote a good diet and sensible lifestyle – I kept saying without it taking pleasure from people to live. For quality of life, I think, is an important part of living a healthy and good, and spread, life – for example. for those who train.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e372	I thank my colleague on the Financial Committee for raising an important debate. It is a good socio-economic principle to correct for external effects by subsidising activities that have positive effects on other areas and to tax what has similar negative effects. Corrective taxes on the environment, climate and health are the most basic components of the tax system, as they contribute to better resource use in society as a whole. Measured in dollars and cents, health-related charges are the most important excise duties other than car charges. Price is an important tool to regulate demand. This type of instrument should have a principle anchoring and be designed as precisely as possible so that the system effectively contributes to the correction of external effects and treats competing enterprises equally and fairly. The Excise Committee represents an attempt at such a principle approach. Goods such as tobacco and alcohol are legal. At the same time, tobacco is a risk factor for six of the eight major causes of death in the world. Tobacco products are harmful to the user, even when used in the manner intended. Tobacco has a high cost for both society and for individuals. It suggests that it should be an important health policy objective to limit tobacco use. In the years that we have behind us, the traditionally strong decline in tobacco sales has flattened out, but the smoking law has probably helped to reduce the level of damage caused by passive smoking. Tobacco taxes can help reduce smoking. Tobacco taxes were actually increased in the 2011 budget. Alcohol also has a high cost to society when consumption is too high. Some life situations should and should be non-alcoholic, e.g. in traffic, working life or in association with children and young people, because alcohol in these zones may be a disadvantage to others. Less alcohol damage will help to improve the use of resources in society and to enable healthcare funds to be used for other necessary tasks. The Excise Committee indicated that the socio-economic costs of alcohol use may be higher than the proceeds of alcohol duty. The sample clarified that the socio-economic costs and the proceeds of alcohol taxes are not directly comparable, as some alcohol has not been subject to tax through tax-free and border-trade. A majority of the sample suggested an increase in alcohol taxes. Tax-free trade represents a greater challenge than border trade. However, both elements must be taken into account in the design of the charging system. However, in Sweden's previous parliamentary elections, both alliances supported increased fees. Finland has increased alcohol taxes several times in recent years, and in Denmark increased alcohol taxes have been reported. From 2003 to 2011, the Norwegian alcohol duty was unchanged, except for the general price adjustment. In the same period, people's purchasing power increased significantly. Alcohol consumption also increased. Alcohol and tobacco taxes are more strongly anchored in the population than in the past, and the proportion of people who think that the charges are too high has been reduced in recent years. In the autumn of 2010, the Stortinget adopted a moderate increase in alcohol taxes — actually by 5 pst. In food and drink, there are more challenges related to demarcations than to tobacco and alcohol. In addition, changing prices contribute to shifting consumption to other food products. In addition to the consumption of some foods, it is important to encourage a healthy diet as a whole. The value added tax should be neutrally designed, simple and with small administrative burdens. The VAT system is therefore, in my opinion, not suitable for grading to a greater extent than what is being done. Instead, I think it is the excise duty that must be used to influence behaviour, and they should be basically anchored, treat competing businesses equally and have a professional justification. Rather, we should have a system of correct rates and exemptions, rather than a system of varying rates and many exceptions. Today we have three different sugar levies. This is an area where there is a clear need to look at, as there is a wide variation in the level of fees between different sugar products. The Excise Tax Committee recommended one general charge for sugar in food and beverages to replace the three we have today. In this context, work on the EU Food Information Directive has been continued for a long time, and the Directorate-General for Customs and Charges has assessed what is needed in order to obtain a more accurate fee. I am concerned about the further follow-up of this, and it is positive that the Council of State discussed further follow-up and interaction with the Ministry of Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e402	I think it's an interesting debate and the issue here is the interpellant. The answers given by the Minister of Finance are also interesting given that Norway has the most expensive food in the world. But first of all, what is healthy food? This is where the experts disagree. Does the state have the fasit of what is healthy? I would like to mention some examples of what the state is stimulating to today – what is the use of Norwegian taxpayers’ money for? We have, as many people know for sure, matprat.no – The egg and meat information office, which is there to get the Norwegians to eat more meat. Do all experts agree that meat is healthy? No, no, no. I know a lot of nutrition physiologists. Of course, it can be random, but all I know are almost vegetarians. But it is probably a debate of its own. We also have the Information Office on bread and cereals – brodogkorn.no – which I assume is for the Nordics to eat more bread. But all the experts don't agree that eating a lot of bread is good. Then we have the Information Office for Dairy Products – milk.no – that exists for, I guess, to get the North to eat more butter and to drink more milk. Do all the experts agree that it is healthy to eat more of that? No, not everyone agrees. So a little bit more pleasant things, maybe, what about chocolate? Chocolate can be good for your health and have many positive ring-effects. Nevertheless, in Norway, as we know, we have our own chocolate levy and sugar levy. I came up with an article that it's good to mention. Researchers have found that chocolate helps to combat stress. Not only that – previous research shows that chocolate has other positive properties, such as reducing the risk of blood clots by between 25 and 50 pst. A lot also suggests that the chocolate can help against leg bloating. That's what scientists in the United States have found out. Furthermore, cocoa contains many good substances that prolong life. In a study, they investigated the physical responses of volunteers in the 20-year period, both before and after the clinic. They found out that those who had taken a piece of chocolate had better pleasure and better experiences than those who had not. So eat chocolate, but then you have to do something with the chocolate fee. What about drinks? Yes, beer and wine are also healthy. However, Norway has extremely high fees for wine and beer. Nevertheless, as was said here, the fees increase. You almost get the impression that everything of alcohol is negative, but most people actually enjoy alcohol. The score is moderate. In the last decades, there have been very many studies in this area as well, which show that light or moderate alcohol consumption is associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular disease. There's also evidence that red wine helps against Alzheimer's. In fact, several studies show that those with moderate alcohol use are less obese. It has also been proven that the composition of the red wine prevents damage to the gums and stops bacteria in the mouth from spreading. Academics at a University in London point out that those who only drink a glass of wine a week and up to five bottles of wine a week had significantly stronger thinking than total domestics. It is also confirmed by a Norwegian survey from Tromsø, which says that a glass of wine a day makes you smarter. Maybe there's something to think about for those who're going to the barn restaurant afterwards. Now I see the time running out. I also intend to pay attention to the customs tariff, which contains a lot of fun. Of course, I can't go through everything here, because it's a bureaucracy without equal. For example, I can. refer to Chapter 7, or more Chapters, which briefly relate to vegetables and fruit. For those who believe that bread is healthy, there are high customs walls around Norway, which make healthy food more expensive. So I encourage the representative to take the initiative to lower the customs walls and lower the taxes on alcohol, both in the case of wine and beer and chocolate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e423	I had settled down a little before the debate. I thought that when an SV representative addresses such a question, there would be a bunch of proposals for new charges, regulations and regulations. But it didn't. It might illustrate that here are the challenges, but the map is rather incomprehensible in what actually reaches. I think that if you look at both the development of obesity and the development of diabetes in society, there are some challenges to our welfare community, you can call it the inactive society that we're going into, which actually requires quite a lot of skills to keep good health. It's a huge challenge. I think the Minister of Finance's review was good. We look forward very much to the review of a general sugar charge and what you can possibly do. We have largely followed the government on the fee scheme that has been, except in the case of the food tax, I think. There are certainly some limitations. There are probably few areas where there are so many issues related to the treatment of the State budget, as precisely in the charging policy. I think we're completely at the limit as to what kind of charges we can have with regard to the border trade. The Minister of Finance pointed out that I live in a border municipality. I see what traffic it generates across the border, and also what Norwegian investments it generates on the other side of the border, because there are quite a number of Norwegian shopping centers that are owned by Norwegians. So border trade is definitely a restriction, but it's also a limitation of what's effective. I think that the price estimates are going to be pretty big before we really get a change in people's consumption patterns just through the use of taxes. I recognise that I belong to a party that believes that the individual actually has quite a responsibility in terms of his or her own health and activity, but it is clear that there is also a need for a focus on national policies. The challenge is huge, and we're going to see in the health budgets to what extent we've succeeded. I sat and listened to the radio as I drove inward to Stortinget today. There it was, among other things. a news that three- and four-year-olds are now being sent to chiropractors to receive treatment for stiff neck and back problems. That is quite significant. If you think that a three-year-old or a four-year-old is being cured by a chiropractor, that you don't find a better cure by getting into activity, it's somehow with the general attitude out there that's changing, and that's going to be a huge challenge to get corrected – just by getting the skills that are needed, as I said, to have a healthy lifestyle in the welfare society we live in. It was also a quite funny debate in Nitimen, I think it was, about how to get a jumper – it was a debate that entertained me almost all the way to Oslo. The point was that you actually had to stay active, because in 50 years, men could have narrow shoulders and wide buttocks — if you didn't take the initiative to stay active yourself. I think this also applies to food: you actually have to have some knowledge to know how to live healthy. That challenge is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e436	I would like to thank the interpellant, Geir-Ketil Hansen, for the interpellation. It is very nice that someone who has previously been on the Health and Care Committee, and who is now on the Financial Committee, intervenes in this. This is no new matter in the Financial Committee. We all know that there is a clear connection between what we eat and what we drink and good health. We also know that there are big differences in the population in recognizing these relationships. The most resource-intensive are careful to control too much sugar, while others have a different attitude to it. The relationship between diet and health is incredibly important. The authorities have the knowledge. The authorities have had knowledge for a long time, but we experience – almost daily – that there has been more obesity in the population, that it is becoming a bigger and bigger challenge, and that diabetes is a major and growing problem. That's the facts. This is something that the authorities know. The individual is responsible, but the authorities are responsible for contributing to more correct choices. I have to say that it has happened very little in this government period in this important area. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has understood the seriousness for a long time — and has repeatedly pointed it out. But – as the interpellant is on – the topic is now the financial instruments, and in terms of fees, it is under the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Finance. As the Council of State had in mind, we have had a separate sample that gave an assessment of the excise duties, NOU 2007: 8, where among other things. has discussed a general sugar levy to replace the three sugar levies we have: chocolate and sugar products, non-alcoholic products and sugar levies. The general sugar levy is intended as a graduated sugar charge per gram of food and drink. Taste it, President, graduated by sugar per gram of food and drink. It is obvious that this will be a very demanding administrative matter. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand all the complicated administrative aspects of this proposal. In addition, we have EEA issues, and we have today's brand rules, on which the Council of State was involved, which need to be changed before a graduated sugar levy is paid in Norway. The centre party is positive to get a graduated sugar fee. But the problems are big – and have been great all along – and we see no prospect of change. What is therefore the obvious solution is to look at the VAT system. There is a joyous development in that more and more drink ordinary water. For me, spring water is the most common water, it's the cheapest, and it's good in Norway, so we're all going to appeal to it. But what we're talking about now is soda – drinks – which are added sugar. For some wonderful reason, breasts with added sugar have in due course received a low rate of VAT – as if it were a food. We got a low rate of food consumption, and sugar drinks – what is called shower – came into that system. I've never been clear about what was the reason for that, or who was behind that rate. It may not be difficult to impose a full rate of added sugar or sweeteners on an administrative and controllable basis. The problem is in case you have to set the limit at half a percent or a percent, or whatever. It must be a purely pragmatic, practical adjustment. I would therefore appeal to the Minister of Finance to focus on the VAT system for beverages. In general, the Ministry of Finance wants to have a full VAT rate, and here they have an opportunity to do so. It will be good for public health, good for state funds and good for taxpayers who do not want to pay taxes in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e457	This is a debate that gives me a little dejà vu – all the time signed almost on the day five years ago had an interplay on about exactly the same topic. There has been a lot of sugary drink in the sea since then, but the charging system has not changed to a great extent. Now I have to say that after Rytman's posts you probably got the impression that the healthiest meal you can have is red wine and chocolate in combination. I'm not quite sure it's a clear advice, but let go of it. From the Christian People's Party, this is a matter we've been dealing with for years. It also makes it possible for us to make proposals at virtually every budgetary procedure that are just using the charging system to underpin positive changes in other policy areas, in this case read: public health. You can view fees either as an instrument for getting money, or you can view taxes — of course — as an instrument for getting money into the treasury and distributing it. But it can also be used for something else, namely to promote good policy areas elsewhere – in this context: good public health. When we propose in the budget to increase the VAT on sugar-containing drinks and sweets, as it is called, to the normal VAT rate of 25 pst. – just like the representative Lundtigen now had – we do it because we see that it will have a positive effect on public health. We also believe that it can actually be done without the major administrative problems, which are presented for over-measures when you have such proposals for treatment. The opposite of our proposal in the budget is that we use the same money to reduce the VAT rate on fresh fruit and vegetables at the lowest rate, 8 pst. I think it could have been a very good move, also to achieve what the interpellant has earned today. I listened to the Minister of Finance, and he is a lukewarm person who does not make proposals to the ground before he has to, but it was kind of very strange that there is a lot of control about this, that it is going to be difficult, and that there are many administrative considerations that need to be made, and that it is asked whether in sum it will pay off. The seventh and final decision must be made: if you think that the health impact is more important and exceeds the administrative challenges, and if you do something to promote public health, you get something. If we think that there's too much control, and that the health effect is small and maybe doesn't mean anything in particular, we leave it alone. I guess that's basically the fasit that you're stuck with at the end of the seventh. On the part of the Christian People's Party, our position is clear: we support the inter-pellant's starting point that it is a great health effect to get out of a more active use of the charging system. That is why we are proposing what we have done in our alternative budgets. I also hope the government will follow it up in the next budget, but as I said, this was a debate we had five years ago. Then they waited for this special committee, and nothing happened later, so they allowed me a very conditional optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e476	It's an important and interesting issue the interpellant addresses, and something left has been on for many years. For us, it has been an independent goal to use the tax and tax system to stimulate behaviour. It is about both stimulating investment in Norwegian jobs and businesses, and it is about using the tax system in a holistic way to transform society in a more environmental and climate-friendly way. A real green tax shift will also contribute to the issue of lifestyle-related illness and the environment. In addition, the interpellant travels quite concretely: does it not make sense to make more active use of pricing and charging policies in relation to diets? The answer from the Left to that question is a loud yes. That's why we have also proposed such a conversion a number of times here in Stortinget. In our alternative state budget for 2012, we proposed a number of measures to stimulate healthier diets and lifestyles, including: in the conversion of the VAT system for food and drink combined with higher taxes on tobacco. In concrete terms, the Left proposed that there should be no VAT, i.e. zero rate, on fruit and green, while there should be full VAT, 25 p.m., on cheese and heavily sugary drinks, which were also in the middle of the interpellant, on which the representative Lundtegen was in and on which the representative Syversen was in at the end. So the left will increase the general food tax by one percentage point. Overall, such a change implies a reduction in the total food prices, but where the great relief comes to those who have, or to those who add to a healthy diet. In order to stimulate a healthier lifestyle, the Left also proposed increasing the tobacco tax by 10 p.m., abolishing the tax-free trade in tobacco products and altering the taxes on alcohol, making spirits more expensive, while wine and beer sold through the Wine Monopoly are becoming cheaper. It's a paradox that we have a lot of knowledge about the adverse effects tobacco has, while the first thing we meet when we get back to Norway by plane from abroad is the offer of tobacco products at much lower prices. I registered that these proposals were voted down by the government parties, including the interpellant, but should leave it. The sad thing is the argument – at least in the past, but in so far as it is here today – against the Left's proposal, which is a very technocratic approach that makes this more complicated and therefore cannot be supported. I do not share that assessment, all the time the Left does not propose to introduce any new VAT rates, but simply to change the VAT on certain types of goods within existing rates. It is my view and that of the Left that the socio-economic bill will obviously go in plus if you do such a conversion, which stimulates healthier diets and lower tobacco consumption. I'm sure the interpellant shares this view. Let me therefore wish interpellant success in the work within the government to implement pricing and charging policies to stimulate a healthy diet. He needs to know that he has the whole-hearted support of the Left. If the inter-pellant were to fail, of course, he is warmly welcome to vote in favour of the Left's alternative budget already in the context of the revised budget this spring. This also applies to the representative Lundteg.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e492	I'm about to make a few comments, despite the fact that my very moderate alcohol consumption will mean that I don't have the same intellect as the other thing. This is, in my opinion, one of the most important interpellation debates we have in Stortinget – first of all because it points out some of the challenges we have as politicians, that we are de facto in the process of repairing ourselves. In almost all sectors, we have political debates that are very much about the repair that is going to happen when it's wrong, whether it's disease, or there's crime or other kind of behavior that we don't like. I welcome this interpellation, because it raises one of the very important questions: How can we, as a society, in the future produce the quality of life and the well-being we have – without just having to think about how much money we allow to repair where the damage has happened? One of the reasons we have succeeded in many areas in Norway, regardless of government colors, is that we have had an active, preventive policy. A very important part of this is tax policy in many areas — tobacco, alcohol, food and its like. That is why this is a debate that I believe we must actively address – opposition as a position. It represents a political thinking that helps prevent the wrong from happening, and that makes it so that we actually only create better quality of life through it. It's much better to have a society where we have a few morbid spaces than a society where we have many. One of the reasons why we in Norway have very little crime compared to other European countries is that we have actively prevented it. Let's take the relationship between violence and alcohol use. It's perfectly obvious. It has been studied, and it has shown that one of the most important instruments we have to combat the crime of violence is the alcohol charge. Alcohol is one of the most elastic goods there is – here we are really sensitive when it comes to price increases. We'll see about the consumption, right away. One of the reasons I took the floor here was that I was very excited about the comments of the Progress Party in this debate. For many weeks now, we have heard that on the right-hand side one gathers to create a thought – a possible – government alternative towards 2013. I was excited about Rytman's posts, but I recorded that there was a lot of food talk going on, and that there was a lot of harelas about how maybe one of the most important political instruments we're dealing with would be a failure. Now, the Progress Party is a party that has as its foundation the need to go too far in reducing taxes and taxes. It is therefore interesting to note that there is a huge leap — a quantum leap — between the bourgeois and the possible, thoughtful, governmental parties in terms of such an important instrument as the use of charges, whether in terms of health or the fight against violent crime. Therefore, it might be interesting to challenge the opposition precisely in this area: what is the strategy towards this, which is one of the most important elements for us to produce good health in this society, and for us to have a reasonably low crime rate? Is it that in this area you actually don't choose to gather? This, I think, would serve to shed light on the policy – much more so than we have now. The voters had earned it. The selectors are busy with these questions. We are still seeing, as the representative Tegen pointed out, studies that show that the desire to achieve a reasonably high level of fees for many of the products that cause serious damage is increasing among the population. I think it's an awakening in the population when it comes to seeing that we have to take some other action to prevent damage to either our own body or the body of others. That is why this inter-pelling debate really deserves more attention and more political seriousness than what we have been presented for – in particular from the Progress Party instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e511	Thanks to the interpellant. I fully agree with the previous speaker: this is one of the most important debates we have, both within health and for the whole of Stortinget. Today, we have a population with failing health – we have a major public health challenge in Norway. Our good life has become in many ways the greatest challenge of this society. We have living habits today that give you unhealthy, and we get an explosion in diseases like diabetes and obesity, which makes us get a population that can't last that long. Dietary and physical activity are two key factors in public health work. Both of these are about to become a class question. That's not how we can allow it to evolve. This growth should be very worried about the social health issues that we have in Norway today. We have a spread of lifestyle diseases that are strongly related to educational levels and income levels. I didn't think this interpellation was going to get entangled with – as we have heard today – and I thought this big thing should take the question a lot more seriously. We have a great political responsibility to curb the developments that are taking place. We can promote healthy lifestyles if we want to, and we can make the healthy choices easier if we have the courage to do it. The Health Directorate is quite clear in its recommendation: we can do a lot of things, but what is important – it's just like in the alcohol field, we have to use what is called a structural tool – is price policy. In Norway, we have good traditions of using the tax system in the tobacco and alcohol fields, and it works. But we're much less attractive and less immature in using these types of drugs in the diet. There is something we must do now. I feel that there are tension lines in the policy in this area: whoever wants to take general action against diet and physical activity, and who thinks this is essentially the individual's responsibility. I think that experience shows that parental responsibility is good, but when we get increasing social health differences, we have to make political progress and stop progress. I'm thinking about the political game we saw when this government introduced free fruit and green on the youth ball. Many politicians and political parties used this health effort as an example of poor schooling priorities. It shows that there's a whole different way of thinking we have to establish here, to understand that we're talking about prevention, and we're talking about public health. There are also other things, such as branding schemes, keyhole marks, advertising bans, or the regulation of marketing aimed at children and young people when it comes to unhealthy foods. There are also other measures that you can do, but using price policy is something we must now do. Using excise duty – such as the sugar levy, which is set out in the Soria Moria declaration – is obvious that we need to do so. The centre party has gone to the elections and is clear that we believe that the VAT system can be used. It is said that it is not accurate, but I have not heard anyone else who can come with another arrangement that is better when it comes to separation. In the end, I would like to remind you of how good we were after the war, as we had the opposite problem, with malnutrition and miscarriage of young people and the emerging generation. Then we put a big stake in the school with a school meal all over the line – a general measure – precisely because we were so good at thinking about prevention, and that we had to have measures like spells all, and that the school was a good place to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e532	This is a very important debate. Public health concerns us all, not only as individuals, but also as society, because costs of poor public health are borne by taxpayers. This is about something very important, and it's about something far more than just the state's tax potential, as some people do this debate. It's about what you eat, about what you do, about diet and nutrition, about varied diets, and everything by way. I think it's quite in place when the Progress Party reminds me that what actually gets subsidies from the state, by some people is perceived to be bad for health, not good for health. It's not a hustle and bustle with a debate, although some red-green politicians like to get a bad conscience because they give money to what they want less in today's debate. But it's also about physical activity; having gym in school, outdoors, leisure activities. All of this is part of the whole, and it's about much more than how the state can charge some things. When we look at today's state budget, there is no lack of fees in all the areas you have said that one eats too much of, and thus destroys public health. If this was as simple as Knut Storberget gives the impression, why hasn't the government already dealt with this question? He has run this country for seven years and has controlled all the fees. I think that instead of shooting at the Progress Party in this matter here, one should see himself in the mirror. But probably you know what you're looking at in that mirror, because it's already the representative Lundteg said, "A look at the paralysis of action, a look at an area where you've been talking a lot, but you've done a terrible little thing." It doesn't mean that for that reason this debate is less important, but it does mean that I don't have the great hopes that it actually changes something. The artificial and inconsequential care of the representative Storberget for the opposition, he can spare himself: he can rather take responsibility for the government he himself has been part of. We'd rather strike a blow for knowledge about the different types of food that are, how the combination of these is important to public health, and for someone to want to use the school as a better venue than today for just physical activity and knowledge of the food industry. The fact that a person uses price policy is nothing new. But I would rather imagine that we talked about getting a reduction in VAT on healthy food, rather than looking all the way at how to increase the fees on so-called unhealthy food. It would have a positive effect on this, but then I think that the red-green parties would still be paralysed, because then one actually had to start prioritising the state budget, rather than taking more money out of the taxpayers' wallet. One area that we will specifically try to raise in this debate is how to stimulate more activity among people, because it is the same important side of public health as what one eats. There are two concrete proposals that I would have liked the Minister of Finance to comment on, and that is to let the employer who pays his staff a trim card do this tax-free. Today, if as an employer you enter a room for work with training equipment, employees can use this without being taxed for advantage, but if one does not have that place at the place of work and rather pays, or ‘leader’, training opportunities at a training centre, the employee is taxed on it as normal income. Will one take this away, so that one of the authorities can give an incentive that people actually get training cards and can train more, just because it won't cost them anything? Similarly, we know that getting to and from work or around society in general is something you can either do by sitting in a car and driving, which many in the Progress Party are happy about, or you can move and ride, which is something many in the Advance Party are happy about, or you can take public transport, which in many places is not appropriate, but in many places it is appropriate. Where it works, the employer can pay collective cards without one being taxed for that advantage – it would be a way to make people move more, simply because many people have to move a bit to get your bus, t-path, etc. Stop. It would be a contribution to making people think differently about health, what they eat, and what they do. It would have caused the state to lose some revenue, but if one actually believes that this is one of the most important debates that Stortinget has, such a tax and income loss would actually be quite fine, because public health would be much better. It's a little strange that when this was taken up last time, I think it was the Left who asked a question about it in 2006, Kristin Halvorsen, who was then the finance minister, was very concerned that the state could lose money on this, instead of focusing on how to actually improve the environment and public health. So I would like the Minister of Finance to look at both money and money in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e549	I would like to thank all those who have spoken for very good posts, which, as I see it, in sum have immediately concluded in the interview that this is a very important area to focus on. Tax policy is an important part of health policy. It is also important in the future that it becomes part of the debate on health policy. So it's been said by several, and also by those who signed it, that the challenges we have in the health system ahead, we're not going to be able to deal with out of it. We know, among other things: with regard to the incidence of cancer, it will be so increasing in the years that we are going to have problems recruiting enough cancer doctors – the Health Committee has been informed in response to the health service. At the same time, we know that the same disease is possible to prevent in very many areas. We cannot afford not to take preventive action as an important part of the health debate. That is why I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on this. The last person to speak, the Solvik-Olsen representative, pointed out a number of areas in which it is also important to focus, namely physical activity and the provision in schools and kindergartens in this area. I fully agree, but tax policy, the price policy for food, is also an important part of prevention. We have enough knowledge about this, and we know, as Lundtigen said, what works, and we know what doesn't work. The representative Rytman mentioned a number of foods that various experts disagree on whether they are healthy. To that it's just to say that what I said in my post, and food scientists are quite unambiguous and clear about affecting health in the negative direction, are salt, sugar and saturated fat. There's no disagreement about that. Grain products, fruit and vegetables are those that have a positive effect on health. That's why this is what we've been focusing on today, very important in the health debate in the years to come. There's nothing done overnight, this has to be seen in a long-term perspective. I will promise that I will contribute the time I have in this house, to keep this high on the agenda in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e562	The last one is a wish I think it's important that the representative Hansen actually sticks to, because it's important to keep the matter warm. There are several of us who should contribute. In many ways, this has been a somewhat unusual discussion for the members of the Financial Committee. It was one who was not a member of the Financial Committee who took part in the debate, but nevertheless this is also an important debate for the Financial Committee. There has been a debate about tax incentives on the one hand and taxation on the other. I took part in a debate earlier today about taxable and tax-free benefits in kind, so we've got parts of the range anyway. Thus, many people have argued that taxes have several purposes — to influence behaviour and consumption is an important part of it, to finance important joint actions is another. There may be grounds for recalling a very targeted action, which has had a combination of tax and awareness-raising combined with legislation: it is the effort put in to limit tobacco consumption. I would like to say to the representative Syversen that if one puts the issue of health effects on the one hand up against governance and administrative conditions on the other, it is at least my position that where the health effect is greatest, that is the health effect you should follow. What you've done on the tobacco side, I think, is a good example of how to work. So the instruments can be different. Something has been focused on the VAT system. It referred to the VAT on shower. Of course, this must also be seen in the context of VAT on other goods with a high sugar content. I think that a general sugar charge might help to resolve something in that knot. In order to build up under what the representative Storberget was into, the whole discussion of prevention on the one hand and repair on the other, and perhaps a further perspective in that debate, the relationship between individual cost and common costs as part of that discussion, I would say that self-responsibility is anyway important. I think it is also important to work in a broad field of policy on the issue that the interpellant has raised today. It is a question of distribution policy, it is a question of policies to smooth out living conditions, and it is in a way a wide range that should be included in this debate. I would like to thank you for the initiative and for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e579	Case No. So 3 is done. The President has no intention of giving the floor to himself, so there will be a slight art break while the interpellant and the president change places.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e602	The Law on Voluntary and Forced Debt Scheme, the Debt Scheme Act, was referred to as an innovation when it was dealt with in the Stortinget on 15 June 1992 – that is 20 years ago. Private individuals in a deep economic crisis would be given the opportunity to take a fresh start and gain control of their economy, or as the then state councillor Grete Berget expressed it in Odelstinget: ‘This means that individuals who are in a deep and tragic debt crisis are given the opportunity to settle and restart according to their ability.’ The background to the law was the development of the 1980s, with strong credit expansion and strong interest rate increases, combined with falling property values, leading to more serious debt and payment problems. Dwellings went over to become speculation objects. In Oslo, we especially remember the so - called city renewal victims. Inner-city lodges had for several decades lay with demolition debris over them, and the decay was gradually considerable. In 1977, the urban renewal programme was adopted with rehabilitation and new construction. In 1977, a majority in Oslo City Council adopted the so-called self-financing principle, i.e. the residents had to pay the bill for the urban renewal. They had to pay both for the neglected maintenance of the farms and for the lack of follow-up of the municipality. With the sharp rise in prices and interest rates in the 1980s, many ended up in debt victims. The freeing of the housing market, which brought an end to the regulation of the rates applicable to flats, also led to a price explosion. Several of the urbanly renewed housing laws went technically bankrupt, the apartments were unnegotiable. The common debt alone was greater than the market price. Now bisto Stortinget gradually by deleting part of this common debt, but many ended up as debt slaves anyway. 70 pst. had to move. This is basically just one of the backstops of the Debt Scheme Act adopted by the Stortinget in June 1992. The preparatory work on the law, the committee's position and the debate show that this was primarily aimed at those in debt crisis due to the purchase of housing. The law was intended to be used when other instruments were not sufficient. Today – 20 years later – debt problems are increasing, especially in large cities, with increasing payment problems. It happens because of galloping housing prices. But it's not just housing that's the cause of debt. In fact, it is also increasingly about people who have started up personal businesses, or individual enterprises, who have ended up in a debt situation and have applied for a debt regime. Of course, this also applies to all those who somehow have been in a debt situation because of galloping credit card usage, often as a result of the first, as I mentioned. The rules for obtaining debt are extremely strict, as is confirmed by lawyers who work specifically with victims of debt, including free legal aid. Those who enter into a debt arrangement almost seem to live. They are put under debt management and experience being stuck to a minimum to live for — far below social assistance rates, often. Almost everything they serve goes to indebtedness. Nor can they leave the country, not even across the Swedish border. The law requires them to pay as much as they can for a five-year period. This is really a very long time, if you think about the strict regime that they are subject to, even on a voluntary basis. Many of those currently in debt are victims of excessive housing costs and housing prices. They have loans they can't serve, and they get stuck in a trailer. Of course, this applies to a good number of young people, because the price of entering the housing market is very high, and not all things serving the debt. Debt regime also makes them stuck, but in a different way. In addition to the housing debt, as I mentioned, the examples I have been away from have been female entrepreneurs. They have established hairdressing salons, flower shops, etc., and discretionary equation has often been the main cause of accumulated debt. Many of them have initially had too little knowledge of accounting and administration and have ended up in an economic situation. Lawyers I've talked to say that people who are in debt restructuring experience the situation that so tough that the only solution is to work black, so they have something left to live for. It's not a development that I think we can agree with. In today’s situation, the Debt Regulation stimulates black work. So the frame conditions are too tight. Let me also mention a provision in the law that has also been included in the text of the interview that has been sent. That's the third paragraph of Section 1-4. Under the third subparagraph, a debt arrangement may not be given to the same person twice. There's a lot of reasons for that, let me underline it. However, this can sometimes have dramatic consequences. For example, there are examples of people who have been given control of their economy following a hard debt treatment. In one case, as I'm familiar with, a break in life and a stay in a crisis centre led a woman who had a debt arrangement to end up in a new debt crisis. A new debt regime was subsequently applied for, but this was rejected by the reman because she had previously been granted a debt arrangement. With the house sold in compulsory auction and a total debt of 1.4 million. She is now hopelessly trapped in debt. This is the category that is increasingly in a situation of disability, i.e. of disability, even though they are basically very busy. But breakup, divorce, etc. So you can get into that situation. In this case, there was a person who was the founder and had established an individual enterprise and a separate enterprise. There was a lawyer who told me that no one asked anyone who was in trouble, if he had been rescued once before. If you come to the doctor with your broken leg, you won't be met with, OK, this is the second time? No, then we can't break your leg! The reason why I'm saying this is that we might sometimes have to be a little bit more flexible. The law should contain more flexible provisions. It is true that we must ensure that the law of the debt regime is viewed with positive eyes also by those who do not need to be indebted. There will be a balance between it and being able to have flexible arrangements, if it's not somehow self-inflicted that you get into such a situation for the second time. Let me add that debt problems initially affect the weakest, but in fact they also affect resource-intensive people who, in a given situation, have suffered economic hardship. Several of those who go into debt work for those dolls. They are often employed, but eventually they end up with Nav because the money disappears. Stand-up comedian Jon Schau gave a face to all the indebted victims a few years ago when, through his one-man show, he showed the brutality of the development of having a debt – he who did not dare walk on the doe in the daytime in fear that the creditors would find out that he was at home, who stopped opening letters, which began to drink. And what happened? He collapsed and ended up in a coma. Luckily he woke up again, but he was bankrupt while he was lying in a coma. It tells us that we're a little bit too brutal when it comes to human debt. The Debt Code would prevent such a situation. The question is whether the time has elapsed from the law adopted in 1992 and has had some minor changes in 2002. It is important for society that people are not broken mentally and economically by a debt crisis and thus end up as clients in the social auxiliaries. But is the Debt Code today what makes it possible to start over, as was said in the debate 20 years ago, and is five years too late? There are several questions I ask here. My challenge to the Council of State is: Will she see if it is possible to carry out an evaluation of this law? Are there also other debt mechanisms, both today and today, that can make us get people out of debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e641	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up a very important theme, which unfortunately just becomes more and more important. It is about countering the debt problems of private households. As the Consumer Council, I am concerned about developments in this area, and I am concerned about limiting the debt and payment problems of individuals. The work of countering debt problems follows a two-track system consisting of financial advice in municipalities and debt regime via the tax collector. The amount of the case under the Debt Orders Act has never been greater than now, and there is an increasing momentum to obtain financial advice in municipalities. Many also incur payment claims as a result of unpaid bills. In such a situation, it is important that there is a way out of the problems. First of all, I would like to mention that there is a great deal of effort being made by the financial advisors in the municipalities – many people here are being helped to arrive at a voluntary arrangement with the creditors. Another important instrument is the Debt Scheme Act, for which my department is responsible. The large amount of the case under the law is an indication that many people are struggling, but it also shows that the law works. To date, about 50,000 households have taken advantage of the possibilities of cleaning up the economy provided by this law. As a further addition to what I have now mentioned, three years ago, a help phone was opened through Nav, 800GUY, where those who have financial problems can get advice and guidance over the phone. This service is also free of charge. A recent evaluation has shown that the offer works very well. So it's a big device to help those who get into economic problems. The interpellant points to the fact that a debt regime can only be achieved once in life, thus increasing the number of people who fall outside the law because they have already had such a scheme. It is true that the law as a general rule works this way, sail if there is also an opportunity to make exceptions. I still understand that many people can experience this as difficult. At the same time, it is important that the debt regime law has legitimacy in the population. Many people may respond negatively if there are no limits to how many times you can get a debt arrangement. On the other hand, as the interpellant pointed out, it is also important with some degree of flexibility, such as: takes into account innocent relationships. The interpellant described an example of what can happen in life, which can make people get up in a difficult situation. I would also like to mention that the other offers, i.e. on economic advice, etc., are also open to those who have been subject to a debt regime. To the interpellant’s question of whether it is now appropriate to evaluate the Debt Schemes Act, it is the case, as the interpellant pointed out, that a comprehensive back-testing of the Law was carried out in 2002. This resulted in several legislative changes, such as: simplified the procedure and made it easier to obtain arrangements with public creditors. We are now in the process of reviewing some aspects of this law. Among other things, we have proposed legislative changes aimed at facilitating the entry into the law of particularly vulnerable groups and the implementation of a debt regime. I will now consider these proposals in the light of the consultation we have just carried out, but I am also open to other proposals. The interpellant pointed out some groups that could be relevant to looking at. In that case, we can discuss that later. I would also like to mention that we are looking at the possibilities of establishing a private debt register, so that the credit rating can be more accurate. The purpose of such a register is precisely to prevent the individual from being overly indebted. It is incredibly important that we have preventative systems. It is important to avoid creating debt problems. Debt problems are very serious for the person concerned, and the government is working on several measures to prevent the problems. In addition to debt registers, we also look at the possibilities of establishing prevention measures, in particular targeting young adults. In the later years, we've seen a strong growth in the default of payments in this group. In 2011, the Ministry carried out a survey project in cooperation with the Consumer Ombudsman, the Consumer Council and SIFO to examine the causes of payment problems among young people. The survey showed, among other things: that young people are met by overwhelming quantities of commercial messages and that credit is quick and easy to obtain. Many young people think it's going to be okay anyway, and they've learned too little about personal finances at school. It is important that young people do not enter a spiral that eventually ends up with serious debt problems. Prevention is therefore incredibly important. The Ministry will work to strengthen teaching in the personal economy and has asked the University of Southern Trøndelag to assess the need for new learning material. In addition, we will continue to cooperate with consumer institutions. I would also like to look at other measures to prevent increased indebtedness among groups in society, and this is what I will come back to later. We are in changing times and the economic prospects are uncertain, even for Norway. As I see it, we now have good tools and a good tool at our disposal in this area, but we can get better. I can assure you that I will follow the situation carefully, as it is called in the politician's language, so that those who experience financial difficulties will get the help they need in the future as well. Then we have to work along several tracks. We need to prevent, we need to help those who need help, and then we need to see that we have sufficient flexibility in the systems, as the interpellant called for, so that we can help people and avoid that individuals end up in a persistent hopeless situation that keeps you stuck in a poverty trap, or at worst ends up in dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e671	Let me thank the Council of State for an answer that I think was positive and uplifting. I feel that she takes this seriously and will go on with it. She is quite right that the amount of the case under the Debt Scheme Act has never been higher than now. There is also a growing momentum in obtaining financial advice in municipalities, including in terms of obtaining debt advice. I registered that the council said she would look at investigations and follow the situation carefully, and I appreciate that. In Oslo and other big cities, as it says in my interpellation and as I said in previous posts, the debt problems still relate to mortgages. It goes without saying, when the housing prices in Oslo and Bærum have been six times in the last 20 years, and they have increased by 51 pst. from 2005 to 2011. It goes without saying that those entering the housing market are having problems. If they do not have parents who can pay the excess separately, they remain in a debt trap. And then it's taking up credit card debts, which we've also talked about. I agree with the Council of State that we have to make the creditors responsible and try to do something about running after youth with both loans and credit cards. I think that's a problem, and it's probably also true that some of the young people might say, "Well, this is going well, in a few years this is going well." Then there'll be student loans and then there'll be other loans. The Debt Scheme Act is important in given situations, but it may be appropriate to consider mitigating a little under the conditions of the victims. The question is the number of years you should go this way and be almost alive. The second is to be able to have a second debt arrangement in a given situation. When the law was revised in 2002 in the treatment of the Innst. O. No 15 for 2002–03, the majority in the Stortinget said, and it was the time when the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party – it was the opposition parties at that time – that one must be open to indebtedness regime No. 2 in ‘special cases’ where the debtor himself cannot be loaded. I might think that the last sentence is quite important, because there may be situations that apply to a human being, not least in the event of a breakup, which will make it necessary to look at this again. So it can be said that it must be bone-tipped to enter into a debt arrangement for the second time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e682	I thank you for the positive words of interpellant Marit Nybakk. This is a theme for which we must have vigilance – the whole government. There are many governments that are directly or indirectly involved in this. The finance committee discussed just before we took over here — that is a natural theme for that committee and for that department. The same applies to housing policy, which is very important for the further development of the debt situation in Norway. I then have overseen consumer responsibility, but not so many instruments under my department. But the Debt Code is one of the ones that I have. I also have dialogue with the Consumer Ombudsman, the Consumer Council and the SIFO on this to see how we can have a most effective tool, both to prevent and to help people who get into problems as a result of debt. I am pleased with the positive signals that have come from the interpellant, linked to trying to make the creditors more responsible. Because there is no doubt that many people are experiencing payment difficulties because they are subjected to great temptations – greater than they can bear. In particular, there are those groups that are unable to cope with the development of wealth elsewhere. It's extremely difficult to have little money in a society where there's plenty -- there's no doubt about it. It is also important to put in place a debt register. And, as I said, ensuring that young people have knowledge of personal finances is important, and that's where we look at a project directed towards that very thing. Nor is there any doubt that what the interpellant points out is that entering into a debt arrangement for the second time is bone-tight. That's not what you want in the first place. But there is therefore a balance that we have to go – and I would like to have dialogue with the Stortinget – linked to the balance between legitimacy, efficiency and flexibility. It's not quite easy to say exactly where it is we should put the center of gravity, but it's at least an assessment that we have to do. I thank you for the discussion so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e697	Like those who have spoken before me, I would like to thank the representative Nybakk for addressing this issue. For those who do this, there has become a major and serious problem in their everyday lives. Although most people deal well with their personal finances, unfortunately we record a trend where more and more people are having problems. An indicator of this is the number of debt collection cases and the number of applications for debt regimes. Here we're talking about big numbers. For this reason, it is understandable that more and more people are unable to make up for themselves. What is really challenging is that debt and debt collection cases are increasing sharply among young people. This year’s figures show that 27,894 people aged 18 to 26 have received payment remarks. That's an increase of 18 pst. Last year, and overall, these young people have incurred a debt collection of 1.1 billion. kr. The interpellant points to the problem that more and more people in big cities have payment problems – that is correct – but you will find the problem across the country. Overviews show that the young people in the rich municipality of Bærum have fewer payment notes, while in my municipality of origin, Alta, the country’s worst payers are found under 30 years of age. It's a statistic I'm a little proud of. Of course, you can ask questions about what's the cause. The interpellant was in on many. I also want to look at what many people think is the beginning of getting into credit problems, namely credit cards and cheap consumer loans. We should never forget that the most important decision to make use of this kind of loan is ourselves, but we get good help because we find advertising about using credit cards everywhere. If we take a trip to shops or shopping malls, we will meet posters with the message: Buy now – pay in three, six or twelve months. When we turn on the PC, the first thing that meets us on different portals is a very attractive offer to borrow cheap money: a loan of up to NOK 3 000 000 with no requirement for security and bail. The last message is the part of the ad that is going to capture my attention and your attention to contact the loan institution. It is clear that there are deadlines, and too many are being lured into such offers. This kind of advertising is not illegal, but it is possible to ask questions about ethics and morality in such a form of marketing. I also hope that this will be part of a debate we will meet in the future. The council was also concerned that something could be done. But I came a little into the house when the Council of State said in its statement that it was considered to introduce a debt register. I hope and believe that the words ‘assess to introduce’ will be replaced by the words ‘to introduce’. I guess that's what she meant. In 2011, there were over 3,400 open debt negotiations in Norway. It's more than ever, and each case is about individuals and their everyday lives. Entrepreneurship is not a joke — it is quite the opposite. We know through the media that the cause of this interpellation is the meeting with the debt victim Tove. Her story is strong, and there are many similar stories out there. Something has to be done. If the law helps to make this an insurmountable problem, we have to do something about it. It is strong to read that since last fall the police in Lower Eiker have been pushing out ten times to save the debt victims who would end their lives. We find similar stories on our own pages on Facebook – here we meet indebted victims who describe a tough everyday life. We must never forget that it's people that it's ultimately about. I also spoke to a debt victim yesterday. By working very much, he sees the light at the end of the tunnel. It's just a little bit of a joke – but it did. He asked me to pass on his meeting with the central government collection centre. He was the first to say that it's not about the individual case handler – they're just doing their job. But nevertheless, he describes such meetings with the Entrepreneurship Center that it gives a sense of being trampled on while you're lying down. Such feedback is not good. I don't know how big the problem is, but the question we have to ask ourselves is: is the regulation that we have adopted not too flexible and does not open it up for understanding? If there is a review of the Debt Regulations Act, we should also look at this area. We've talked about the consumption loans having an effective interest rate of over 30 pst. I guess there's not one in this room that thinks it's – to say it nicely – a little above. And we have strong opinions about interest rate policy. But what is the interest rate policy of the State towards those covered by the Debt Scheme Act? I think it is quite clear that the State must go on its own asking whether we should continue to have interest rates far above market interest rates for those who have come under the Debt Regulations Act. Through meetings with individuals, we know that this also helps to make their everyday life tough. I want to support the interpellant in her request for a review of the law, to see if we in this room can make life easier for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e725	I thought it was very nice that the representative Marit Nybakk addressed this issue. There is no doubt that there is a worrying development when we see that the number of those with payment problems increases. Particularly among young people, it is increasing — and it is also particularly worrying. When we also look at the situation where today we have a starting point with extremely low interest rates, there's of course reason to fear that this is something that could get worse if interest rates at some point, in some years, are getting considerably higher than it is now. There are, of course, different reasons for this. There is no fasitivity at what comes into debt. This housing thing is called here. Now I don't think it's the people in the housing market who have been in debt in the last few years. In the last few years we've had a very strong housing price rise, and those who have borrowed housing have probably come pretty good out of it. Of course, the situation was different in the late 1980s and early 1990s, when housing prices fell. Of course, there is also a situation that may arise sometime in the future. It was also pointed out by the interpellant that the comparison was a few times the reason. I have also registered a feedback that there are a lot of people who have come in a difficult situation. They have simply not been able to submit all the information to the Equator, perhaps because of mental problems, and then one has become a similitude, which has made this much worse. So I think we're going to look at whether the ability of the authorities to compare should also be reviewed, so there's no more problems. Government Council No Marte Thorkildsen recorded this with a debt record. That's very good; it's something that the Progress Party has called for in the past. It's probably a fact that there's a lot of people who get loans that they shouldn't have. We've had a very strong debt structure in the last few years in private households, and many of them might not have been able to borrow them. It is so that you do not have a full list today. When going to a bank, to a credit institution, they won't have a full list of their debts. If one does not include the debt that has been incurred two to three months ago, the bank, the credit institution, will have little possibility of finding out. Then there are people who get debt that they shouldn't have at all. A debt register can prevent this, and that would be good for all parties. It's important, as the interpellant says, to get people out of the debt trap – and it's obvious right. But it may be even more important to prevent people from falling into debt problems. It is important here for prevention measures, on which the Council of State was involved, and also for one to have debt advisors, who do an important job in the municipalities. At the beginning of the 1990s, I worked as a legal consultant in a municipality where I was responsible for debt advice and was also the case handler for the Conciliation Board. A lot of people made contact. Unfortunately, it was usually such that a first registered name in the settlement system before they contacted me as a debt advisor. Therefore, of course, there is a threshold with regard to contacting the debt advisor in the municipality. The threshold must be low and you must be able to help at an early stage. When it comes to the law on debt, it probably makes sense to review the law, but the fact that one gets a debt arrangement once, has its reasons, has its foundation. It may in many cases be noisy to have a debt arrangement several times, and it may also be a wrong signal. Then, too, before one comes to a debt arrangement, try a voluntary debt arrangement. My impression there is that the most difficult creditors you can get into a voluntary debt arrangement with are public creditors. They're hard, and that's also one of the things that we should be looking at more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e742	Every year many thousands of Norwegians experience major debt problems. The number of applicants for debt regimes under the Debt Scheme Act has increased sharply in recent years, and in the first three months of 2011 the figure was over 50 pst. higher than in the same period in 2009. From 2006 to 2010, according to figures from the Ministry of Finance, the number of persons subject to forced labour by a general public official has more than tripled from 32 000 persons to over 96 000 persons. At the same time, there are indications that the public system, which is to care for and deal with those who incur debts they cannot repay, is not working properly. I am therefore pleased with the interpellation we have here today. It's a very important matter and an important issue that affects a lot of people – too many people. It is essential that if someone comes into a situation where the debt becomes insurmountable, it should be possible to settle as much as possible. It is also essential that those who end up in such a situation be able to retain a large enough proportion of their income so that they can live off. The right is concerned that the practice of the law can undermine the debtor's ability to settle in the best possible way. Too many people will be able to lead them into a spiral that leads them into permanent poverty. Adult people must initially take responsibility for their own financial arrangements. At the same time, we only have to recognise that very many ports in a debt drain for various reasons, such as: The interpellant was inside his post. Long-term work is important to combat the cause of new poverty. Among the many who have special challenges, there are also people who have drug problems, lack of links with the labour market, mental illness, lack of integration and debt problems. The right considers that lending, including consumer loans initially, can be positive. It may be beneficial for some that loans are available even if you do not have enough collateral to raise loans in ordinary banks. At the same time, the private credit scheme has almost exploded in recent years. One of the reasons may also be that consumers’ lenders do not really need to make a real assessment of the borrower’s ability to pay. From that perspective, the ability to contribute to the debtor's salary may help to lift the burden from the individual lender to the public system, and it may also provide an artificial incentive to provide higher loans. I think the interpellant today took up another side of it with debt problems that may not be so frequent in the debate, more specifically related to those that are seen as resource people, who establish businesses or who simply experience a break in life, but get into serious debt problems. I would therefore like to mention a decision that was taken at the Rechtes national meeting this weekend, which I am very pleased to have. It is linked to the housing market. Housing prices in Norway have grown sharply in recent years, and much of which can be explained by increased purchasing power. What has happened recently is that the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority for, inter alia, equity has been strengthened. Increased housing prices and stricter regulation by the Financial Supervisory Authority have particularly affected young initial start-ups, and the result has been that young people today are either dependent on wealthy parents or on public schemes, or they may have to resort to unsafe credit and thus get into a terrible debt situation very early in life, which can also create major problems for the rest of their lives. Right wants to enable young people to establish themselves in the housing market without being dependent on wealthy parents or public support schemes. That's why we're proposing to remove the 15 pst requirement. equity on the purchase of the dwelling. I hope that the Council of State can respond to how the government views the Financial Supervisory Authority's request for 15 p.m. equity on the purchase of the dwelling. Does the government not see that this contributes to increasing social disparities in society, that one increases the risk of many facing major debt problems, and that those with low incomes — the youngest and those without parents with the ability to provide financial assistance — are thus excluded from the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e761	First of all, thank you from me also to the interpellant for travelling what I think is a completely necessary debate. There is at all too little discussion about the large build-up of debt in Norwegian households, about what it actually has for both individuals and society. It's a fact that for some people the debt becomes so unmanageable that eventually you don't do it anymore, and you're going to end up on the outside of society. Maybe there'll be a strain on the social security system without it being necessary? Creditors have no motivation to take social responsibility. They run clean stores. The responsibility is what we have to force them to go through the regulations we're making, and there's reason to ask ourselves if they're strict enough. So it's easy to understand why you've decided that there should be a high threshold to grant second time indebtedness. It shouldn't be that you just can't make up for yourself, and then society has to sort it out over and over again. We all agree on that. I think the Council of State has an important point when she says that it is important that the system has legitimacy in the population. At the same time, indebtedness is not an easy solution for those who, for various reasons, are in trouble. The vast majority of people are arranged so that we want to make up for ourselves, stand on our own legs, we want to be independent. Debt regime is, and shall be, a last resort. Before you get that far, it's usually happened a lot. But it is important that there is such a last resort as a debt mechanism to avoid people going down completely into the kneeling and perhaps stopping contributing to society, simply because they are not able to do more. The conditions are strict. Often, the first debt regime has not been implemented if the second debt regime becomes applicable. Here, I believe it is important and proper to distinguish between those who have been given the arrangements and who have been remunerated, and those who do not. We have to ask ourselves whether the principle that people should survive on their own after the first time indebtedness should outweigh the possibility of finding a solution that is both better for the people involved, and not least for society around and all of us who have to finance it if a person goes wrong. It is also important for the legitimacy of a system. Then I'm also concerned about what's going on prevention. I also hope that the debt register will be put in place as soon as possible, not least because of the state council's concern about prevention measures aimed at young people. I do not have any research evidence to claim it, but I have a feeling that those who grow up without any particular cash between their hands, but with the pluses and minuses on a bank statement, have a worse relationship with money than those who have been more physically related to it – more training is needed. But my main reason for taking the floor here is that it is completely impossible to have a debate on the build-up of debt in the population without talking about the development of housing prices. I established myself for the first time in the housing market in 2003. It wasn't easy that time. We would never have done it if we weren't two, and if we hadn't got help. Since that time, the prices in this city have increased by nearly 60 pst. We're in a situation where it's almost impossible to establish ourselves alone in Oslo. I don't understand that anyone can do it at all, and those who do, end up with a debt that's at the very edge of what's right. Unlike the Right, I am because we are taking measures to limit debt build-up. Banks shall not be lent without sufficient collateral. I believe it was right to increase the requirement for equity when we see the rate of debt growing and more and more expressing concern for a new housing bubble. However, such measures also make it more difficult for young people to get in, and must be followed by a policy that makes more housing more rapidly built. The housing prices in Oslo and in Bærum were six times higher from 1992 to 2011, the interpellant was on the inside. The parental regeneration could obtain a central dwelling with quite a standard for one annual salary and be debt-free after a relatively short period of time. For my generation, it's an utopia. Instead of investing in a first dwelling that you can actually live in, the solution for most people is to start with a little bit of a single room, and then you go to the degrees and invest in a second, a third apartment gradually, with a little bit higher loans and with the same long term that you start over every time. Should we get falling housing prices at some point in time, there are a lot of people in my generation who are going to have major problems, and the most disturbing thing is that with the population growth we see in central areas, it's only going to get worse if we don't take new housing policies. In the autumn, there will be a major communication on housing policy, and all the instruments in it are not, of course, the sole responsibility of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, but there are several initiatives that may be relevant: better coordination of real policy, more focus on the rental market. We need to tackle this, and I am pleased with any debate on both housing policy and debt in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e789	Thank you very much for the debate. Let me first underline what Kåre Simensen said, that we must never forget that we talk about people when we talk about debt problems, private debt. He also presented a challenge to the system when he talks about people having the feeling of being trampled on when they lie down – and it also has something to do with public treatment. I believe that we, as magnification representatives and politicians, must also dare to be system critics when it is necessary. We need to discuss debt and debt issues. We've done that far too little. It also underlined Marianne Marthinsen. We need preventive measures, and I would like to stress that perhaps we should also use the school in terms of private debt prevention. There are not so many young people who are able to handle a debt when they come into the situation that they are going into the housing market. We heard the description that several people have included in this regard. The Council of State considers the establishment of a private debt register to prevent some from being overly indebted. I just have to agree with Simensen that we have to – that is, it should actually be done, not just assessed. Then it is almost impossible – but it is not the debate here today – to discuss debt issues without addressing housing policy. That's one thing we'll get back to. I just want to point out what's been said by more people here about that. Then there's one thing that I want to emphasize. It's about the second category of people who get into a debt situation, i.e. those who don't because of housing – even though housing will always be part of that problem. It's about some entrepreneurs, it could be because of a breakup in life, and it could be a combination of the two things. I think it is important that we get legal and economic advice for potential entrepreneurs in the municipalities. Some municipalities have it. It is not all those who establish flower shops or have a product idea that can jus, or who have good business in economics. It may also be part of the prevention of this by preventing people from getting into a debt situation. So I think it was Gjermund Hageseter who said that the public can often be harder to deal with as a creditor. At least it is a challenge for the consumer minister who sits here, that we take it seriously, and that the public as a creditor must also be able to be flexible in relation to, for example, the situation. the law of the debt regime, but generally as the creditor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e804	Let me then once again thank the interpellant for having raised an important debate. The entries in this room show that there is an important debate, and that there is an engagement by the Storting, cross-political, to have a good policy, both on the prevention side and to remedy the situation of the people affected by it. I agree with the representative of Kåre Simensen who stresses that this is a problem not only in the cities but also across the country, unfortunately. I am very pleased that there is a great deal of support for us to have a policy that makes the creditors responsible, and that we need to look at possible approaches that contribute more to making the creditors responsible. I think it's absolutely necessary, and I justified it in my previous post. So I'd like to say that I think it's good that there's an impatience in the hall related to getting a debt register in place. Both the Advance Party and the Workers' Party have mentioned this, and SV is also very concerned about getting such a register in place. So there's nothing that pleases me more than to hear that it's a cross-political desire to get this debt register in place. So even if we 'estimate' it in the department, the intention is clear. There's just no decision in the government about it yet, so that's why I can't pre-shoot it. The representative also reached the threshold of contact with the local government’s debt advisors. There are interesting considerations that came there. I also notice that the representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad, Greece, says that we must balance the accountability of adults for their own actions against human interests. The same thing was also interpellanten concerned about. Then there was a small discussion about the equity requirement set by the Financial Supervisory Authority. I'm not going to interfere with it, it's up to the Minister of Finance, so I'm almost encouraged to take a discussion with the responsible Council of State about it. But there is no doubt that the assessments presented by the representative, Mr Marthinsen, from the Chair are also the assessments made by the government: on the one hand, we must ensure that we do not bring more people into debt, on the other, in particular, that we have an offensive and social housing policy, not least in the cities, absolutely necessary. It is primarily where we have to step in, and we are making a short notice of housing policy, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e820	Then we're done with case no. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e836	Legal certainty is at the core of Norwegian society. Everyone should be able to trust that their voice will be heard and that you will receive a fair treatment. This is often complicated systems and rights even for adults, responsible people to deal with. It's even harder for kids. This is precisely why it is so important that we, as legislators, and not least the government, ensure that we have systems that ensure the legal security of children in all contexts. Many of those who contact us say that the Child Protection Act we have today is good, but is not being followed up. Then it's important that we take care of that all the way around. We have good framework tools to deal with when we're going to create systems that protect children's legal certainty. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was ratified by Norway in 1991 and incorporated into Norwegian law in 2003. The question is whether the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been put into practice in Norway. Is there room for improvement to ensure that children are better cared for? My answer is yes. I'm glad that for many years here at Stortinget, the Council of State has shown a great and burning commitment to the conditions and rights of young children and children. Therefore, the Progress Party has high expectations that this involvement will result in action. The background to my interpellation is therefore to put these issues on the agenda, as well as to present some concrete challenges to the Council of State. For a long time, there has been a high focus on problems and challenges related to children’s legal certainty, including: in the protection of children. The opposition has made several concrete proposals, and we have had many good debates in this Chamber without, unfortunately, so many concrete proposals being made. Nor has it helped the situation that we have had five different government councils responsible for these issues in the last seven years. I therefore hope that the Council of State of Thorkildsen will have done a great deal in the course of the year and a half she has until the 2013 elections. My first challenge is directly on child protection and the use of experts. We are all aware that the county councils were set up to improve legal certainty. But has it gotten better? When the Progress Party made proposals before Christmas to turn tasks over to the Court, more people took up the importance of ensuring legal certainty for these children. We must then be able to dry up a debate on the optimum functioning of these constituents. One often finds that appointed experts are the same or come from the same environment that has been involved in the situation of children in the past. This means that there is a practice related to the counties that can remind us of the goat and oatmeal. This is generally a bad legal principle. The progress party therefore believes that the commentators must be far better placed to appoint their own experts who have a greater distance and thus act with fresh eyes in each case. Then is my challenge to the Council of State if she shares that concern, and if she will look at solutions here. My second challenge is linked to the possibility of establishing a family court rather than the county council. The Raundalen Committee has presented several concrete proposals for changes to child protection. Among other things, the sample – and several others are now committed to it – proposes to establish their own family court as a substitute for the county councillors. In my view, this will help to draw up clearer lines of separation between child protection and the principles of law. Such a measure will also contribute to and strengthen the legal certainty of children in difficult decisions relating to the adoption of care. We also see that many cases that are decided in the county are appealed to the courts. The establishment of a family court of its own may therefore help to increase legal certainty and lead to greater confidence in the decisions that are then taken. It would have been interesting to get the views of the Council of State on the establishment of their own family courts, and whether she would possibly arrange for such an establishment. Let me make it clear that there is a lot of good work going on in child protection. But then it's so sad that we often see that there are also errors, often gross mistakes, that have too many consequences. Are we learning from the mistakes? Why is there so much dissatisfaction, and why is there so much distrust of child protection in some environments? Is it possible to obtain more concrete knowledge about the cause of the mistrust? And what can we do to get better? There is a challenge to the different practices of child protection in the current law. We have too many examples of child protection considering similar issues from place to place. This is a legal security problem for the children concerned. A law must be practiced equally regardless of where you live in the country. I have read a lot of reports, and often stumbles on what is right. I have thought that there must be two sides of a case, and that there must be more to it than that the knives are in the wrong drawer, that the mother has not put on makeup, or that the bread is served in front of the TV. Nevertheless, we see that child protection has an incredible amount of power, the power to define what is good and bad care. It is therefore appropriate to draw up clearer guidelines on how child protection defines care failure, good enough growth, good enough care and good enough parents. A challenge is whether the Council of State sees the need to clarify the enforcement guidelines for child protection so that we can have clear definitions and equal practices across the country. Taking care of a child is one of the biggest interventions you can do in a family, both to the child concerned and to the family. Today, the coercive paragraph of the Child Protection Act is in place. This also contributes to an undeserved reputation for child protection. Many families and children view child protection as an enemy. You should view child protection as a friend. Many people hesitate to report on the need for help because of fear. One thought I'd like to air up in this debate is to move the coercive paragraphs that child protection has today, into the courts. This can contribute to child protection being seen as an aid to the child and the family rather than an enemy. We all agree that the most important job of child protection is to provide early and good help to the family. Forcing the child to move shall be the last resort. The reputation of child protection itself is important in this respect. This can help improve confidence and lower the threshold for requesting help. Moving the coercive paragraph away from child protection, so that you can cultivate the helpful role of child protection, is one of the challenges I want to raise in today's debate. Another central element is this with families from other cultures that are not familiar with the role of child protection in Norwegian society. Many of these families believe that child protection is an authority that has the right to take away their children without a foundation. An example is the so-called India case, where even the government of India has expressed dissatisfaction with the Norwegian child protection system. How many children do we have in Norway today who could be helped by grandparents, aunts and uncles but who today have decided to move to other foster homes and lose contact with their biological family? Who stands up for those kids? The multicultural challenge I think is going to increase. Therefore, in addition to good information on Norwegian laws, good dialogue with the organisations concerned with the immigrant environment is also important in order to gain more insight into the origin of the mistrust of such organisations. It requires a clarification of child protection as a helper and not as an enemy. We are all concerned that the decisions and actions of child protection should be based on correct information. There is reason to be concerned that child protection makes a bit of a mistake, or a lot of mistakes sometimes, which may have a lot of causal links, among other things. unclear guidelines, as I mentioned earlier. Another element affecting legal certainty is current evidence-based practice. There is today an unfortunate distinction between evidence and lack of evidence. As a result, the burden of proof lies with parents and not with child protection. This is an unfortunate principle, which in the worst case can ensure that children lose their parents as caregivers, without covering. The need for evidence is great in such cases. There is reason to ask questions about current practice, which means that many cases are being documented too poorly. This can in turn be linked to the negative views of many parents on child protection, and I therefore believe that we need to assess system changes that ensure the necessary documentation to a greater extent than today. A good rule of law is that a single actor should have the right to a lawyer who leads their case. In Norway, children are mainly joined by the same lawyer as their parents. This can be unfortunate in many ways. The progress party believes that we need to assess whether the child should be appointed a separate lawyer who is separate from the parent’s lawyer. This will be an act that strengthens children as individuals with their own rights and needs. A challenge to the council would then be if she saw that it might be a good idea to also appoint such a personal lawyer for the children. Governments have also been concerned about hearing children. In the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, child participation is a central theme – the right to be heard, to express opinions and to have an influence on matters relating to themselves. One of the last challenges I want to face is whether the Council of State will review the situation related to participation in decisions relating to movement matters for unborn children, in order to comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I come back with more in other posts, but I hope we get a good debate and that the Council of State, if she can't answer all the challenges, can at least come up with some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e880	Let me start by thanking the representative, Solvency Horne, for addressing a very important topic. So there were a lot of issues that were raised, so it's not sure I'm going to get in everybody, but most of them I'm going to be able to cover. Like the interpellant, I am very concerned about the legal security of children in the face of child protection. These are children who are in a vulnerable situation, and the decisions taken by the county council and the courts have major and profound consequences for the children and their families. It is therefore essential that legal certainty is ensured. In order to ensure the legal certainty of children, it is important that the child be heard, as also the representative Horne was at the end of his speech. This is about Norwegian law. Children have the right to say their opinion and be heard. It is also about the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is also provided for in the Children’s Protection Act and is central to the treatment of a child protection case. It is not possible to ensure the legal certainty of children well enough if you do not also ensure that the children are heard properly if they are able to do so. Practice shows that the child’s right of expression and participation in child protection pose challenges. For this reason, I want to strengthen children and young people's participation and right of expression in child protection matters. This may include, inter alia: is made through a legislative amendment which clarifies the obligation and importance of the possibility for children and young people in the field of child protection to be informed and heard throughout the case. It is also important to ensure that those who are trained to work in child protection have knowledge of how to talk to children. Child protection must facilitate conversations with children and use good practices to bring children’s opinion to the fore. As the National Council for Family Protection, it is also very exciting to see how many family protection around the country talk more to the children, not least in difficult divorce cases, and how important it is for the children that they are given the opportunity to say something about their situation and get the opportunity to speak – even when there is a conflict between parents. Enforcement decisions in the protection of children are dealt with by the counties. Evaluation has shown that the county board ensures the legal certainty of the children and their parents in a good way. In order to ensure a more appropriate and effective procedure, several changes have been made to the rules of procedure for the names concerned. However, I see that there are challenges related to the denominator system, including: is too long for proceedings. On the part of the Department, we would like to shorten the length of the procedure. The newly established Central Unit of Counties shall contribute to ensuring more efficient use of resources. The Raundalen Committee has made a number of proposals on how to provide better protection for children, and it is also about legal certainty. The selection assumes that there is a clear increase in the number of cases and that the need for specialised knowledge, including legal knowledge, is increasing. The committee considers that it is therefore appropriate to investigate whether some form of family court can replace the current county scheme — which was also discussed by the interpellant. Although the sample considers today’s subject matter to be a competent decision-making body, the sample considers that a collection of all children’s, youth and family-related cases to one and the same court could result in shorter procedural hours and a more specialised competence. At the same time, we have taken action to increase the competence of judges in child-related matters, including: by the Children's Act. I directed an interpellation to my predecessor, Audun Lysbakken, less than a year ago and took up several aspects of this very thing, where also the family court was mentioned as the topic. Now we're going to send this investigation to the hearing, and I think that hearing will provide a better basis for assessing what changes should be made, if any. The legal certainty of child protection cases has been strengthened in recent years. The Children’s Expert Commission has been established to ensure the quality of all expert reports on child protection matters, so that the basis for decision-making is as high as possible. Funding has also been given to the Norwegian Psychological Association, which holds two-year educational programmes for child professionals – experts who take the case under the Children's Protection Act and the Children's and Parent's Act. It's to meet some of the criticisms that the representative Horne pointed to. The aim of the training programme is to ensure that there are experts with good and up-to-date knowledge of children and young people. This training program is being updated. We have requested that thematics relating, among others, to: violence in close relations, children’s right to be heard and multicultural competence shall be included as part of this programme. It's very important. In order to maximise the stability of the child’s care situation, the rules for bringing a child back to parents after taking care of them have been strengthened. There is also a rule that parents cannot raise a new issue of association until one year has passed. In addition, strict rules have been introduced, a so-called siring scheme, for which a court of law can appeal before the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the It is very important to ensure that children and young people who are under public care are not exposed to abuse and abuse. When that happens, it is totally unacceptable and terrible for the children involved. The regulation on the rights and use of coercion in an institution has now been revised. We are working on detailed guidelines for the regulation to ensure that employees have good knowledge of the rights of young people and that the regulation is complied with. I am also committed to strengthening legal certainty in foster homes. We now consider different ways of strengthening the follow-up and supervision of children in foster homes. In practical child protection work, the assessment of the child’s best interests and well-being involves many complex questions and considerations. It is therefore important that those working on child protection issues have adequate skills. I am also committed to strengthening the competence of child protection to meet children and families with a minority background. It was also a topic that the representative Horne raised in his reasoning for the interpellation. Strengthening competence will increase the safety of child protection in working with children and young people of foreign origin. It will also lead to parents with a migrant background having greater confidence that child protection meets them with respect. The government has provided a comprehensive report on education and training to the professions of the welfare country. In this message, the government recommends that child protection education be further developed, and violence, abuse and care failure are some of the areas of competence highlighted by the government as important for all welfare education. I am concerned that the children's houses help to strengthen children's legal certainty. The children's houses had their origins here in Stortinget in 2004, and a former councillor present in the hall, Knut Storberget, has a great deal of credit for their establishment. It was very exciting to visit the children's house in Oslo, which was my first visit outside this house, and hear the director of the section for sexual crimes in Oslo police district, Kari-Anne Lid, mention the importance of the children's houses. She said that the children's houses are the story of a success that has revolutionized the police's work. She also said, not only did we do each other good, but we also got better each other. These are offers that contribute significantly to strengthening children’s legal certainty. A keyword here is cooperation across different departments and disciplines. It is one of the most important things we can do to ensure the legal certainty of children in the face of child protection and auxiliaries in other areas and in the face of the judiciary. Furthermore, it is a crucial aspect of children's homes that children should be heard by people with adequate skills. It is of exceptional importance to ensure legal certainty. Child protection is dependent on messages from services and individuals who are concerned about the child’s care situation. I am concerned that those who work with children have sufficient knowledge to detect child abuse. It is therefore very important that healthcare professionals have good competence in violence and abuse. Therefore, a manual for health professionals is now being prepared in case of suspicion of child abuse. But we're going to have a lot of dialogue with the health authorities in the future to improve legal certainty for children. Strengthening child protection is one of the most important tasks of government. Municipal child protection is now the biggest promise of 20 years, and we are also considering new reforms in child protection. I want to come back with a proposition and a big message that addresses many of the issues that the representative Horne has also been dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e922	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We often talk about children's best and children's rights. I think children's best easily become a flake many times. It is important that we focus on children's legal certainty and children's rights. And what is child's legal certainty? Well, it's to make sure that their statutory rights are clearly fulfilled. And that's what often happens in some situations, that they don't get the rights they legally claim, that it isn't being followed up. The question then is what we politicians can do to improve this. Much is good in child protection, but there are many times the focus on everything that goes wrong. Then my question is, why is there so much distrust in many environments? Why is there so much distrust of child protection, as it is today, with the consequences that many do not report the needs of the child to child protection? It is necessary to meet these challenges by providing more concrete knowledge of their causes. The councils were in the county. I think everyone in this room is concerned that legal certainty should be ensured. But there's a lot of dissatisfaction also out there with the way the students work, compared to the same experts sitting on both sides. Interviews with quite a few lawyers show that they are also dissatisfied with the way much of the proceedings are done in the counties. It is also very critical that it takes such a long time for matters to come up. Then I am very happy that the Council of State is bringing up the children's houses, which are also important to ensure children's legal certainty. But the problem is that there's too long waiting there. When I was in the Justice Committee, we visited the children's home in Tromsø, and when the family committee was there about a year and a half ago, it was exactly the same issues that were raised that wait time is too long before these children get the help they need. I hope the Council of State understands that in the case of child protection matters, the opposition is, and at least signed, impatient. We know that the government has given more money to municipal child protection, and that's very good. However, there are still major challenges to cooperation with national child protection, including: the reduction of very many good measures that could help some children. Serious cases show that children’s legal certainty is not being followed up. And I've vented some of these challenges to the Council of State. I would like to stress that the legal certainty, security and care of children are too important for us to make this a party political game. I hope that this debate can be a refreshing breath, that we will be raised above the daily disagreements, so that we can join in and chisel out an even better society and an even better future for these children. It's the children who'll come first, and I dare say it's a cross-political agreement in this room. The challenge is just how we're going to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e939	I fully agree with the representative Horne that we should not fall into the trenches here, but try to agree on some important principles. For my own part, I found, when I took over the Council chair after Audun Lightbakken, many nearly completed investigations, which I know he has received some criticism for having started, but which has provided a very good basis for assessing what steps we are going to take with regard to child protection. We're going to come back with our own proposition and a big message with a lot of concrete suggestions for action to be taken. One of the things we're going to look at is how we can strengthen the children's right to be heard, to say their opinion, as Article 12 of the Children's Convention requires us to facilitate, and how we can ensure children's participation to a greater extent than what is being done today. We also need to look at cooperation across different departments and agencies, and between different disciplines, because it is absolutely essential for us to be able to get in early, for us to be able to put together different parts of a reality into a whole, and to prevent professionals from hiding behind the obligation of professional secrecy rather than doing what they are supposed to do, to take care of the children's concerns. Then we know that if you know each other, trust each other and trust each other, you can also cooperate well. Then the piece of supervision will also be important. We've done a job of looking at how it can be improved, both to foster homes and institutions. We are also working to improve our skills. There have been rather alarming reports on the competence of child protection, with which we have to do something. It's about, for example, on the competence of care failures. It is about competence in violence and sexual assault and other conditions that can be characterised as taboo areas, where it is all the more important to have good competence and dry to go in and ask children directly, dry to talk to children, because it is a prerequisite for children to dry to tell. I am pleased that the representative Solvency Horne has expectations of action by the Council of State. I'll do everything I can to deliver. A good foundation work has also been done, and I am pleased with the further discussions on how we can strengthen the legal certainty of children throughout this apparatus, because it is a clear wish on my part that children's legal certainty should be improved. Fortunately, there is also a great deal of work being done around the country to strengthen trust between child protection and the minority communities. Among other things, I can mention the Nightingale, which was also on the Day Revy a week ago. So here I think we're going to get out in a good way eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e954	There's reason to thank the interpellant for raising such an important question. At the same time, I want to give honor to the Council of State, which is very concrete, and which also very clearly points to what she wants to do – and to the extent that also alerts propositions in very important fields. That's good! I want to address two elements in the question of children’s legal certainty – both within child protection and in general – that I think we often underestimate. We hang ourselves very often in more structural discussions about how we organize things. The trial period and its duration are very important. It's important for children that things go fast. In this way, instead of appointing your own family court, you could transfer cases to the general courts. There is now a very good processing time. I have not taken a decision on the question of my own family courts, but I believe that it does not necessarily give all the answers – to put it nicely. But it's very important that we focus on the process in the senses. There have been large, demanding processes – which were also involved in the interpellant – towards evidence assessment and such, and I am convinced that there is more to be gained. There's a nagging feeling in many of us that the thresholds for intervention against a family are felt too high by many of the actors who have power and authority to do so. That's why I think there's a good reason to see if there's anything you can do about the processes, and I understand that the Council of State is doing well. It is good for the interpellation to travel, but there must not be any left-over impression that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, or the government as such, has failed to deliver on this in the last few years – and also has only one and a half years left. This has been one of the important things. I believe that through the party-political majority here in Stortinget, we have been able to significantly raise the legal certainty of children, primarily with regard to child protection and the changes made there, with regard to the issue of a change in criminal law in relation to alerts, with regard to the issue of a change in criminal law in relation to the protection of children who are victims of abuse – the children’s homes are mentioned – and with the aid counseling system. I could have mentioned many concrete measures that have improved the legal certainty of children. But we're not done. There are two elements in this that I want to raise: the first is the question of making the threshold to say from even lower, so that it becomes easier to notify. It's too difficult – it's being made too difficult. I'm not worried that we have government officials – whether you're in big trouble or in government – who call the police and say you're worried. I'm worried that there's almost never a debate that we don't dare say from, and that there are adults – neighbors, relatives or others – who don't say from when they see kids suffering. That's the debate we should take, and there I think we have some leads to do better: the children's houses are for example. a very concrete example in a place where calls can be made for help — not just to bring a criminal case. So making the threshold to alert lower -- for all of us -- is power imperative. The second thing I want to highlight in this debate, which is very much about legal certainty – because we are discussing a lot about courts and trial times when we are talking about legal certainty. But legal certainty for children is very much about what comes out of an alert. What kind of reaction is that coming? It's -- I was saying -- 90 pst. of legal certainty. It's about the 14-year-old in Trøndelag who reported that he was exposed to domestic violence. He was asked, what kind of treatment do you want? He didn't want a criminal case, he didn't want a child protection case. He had two wishes. One was to know why Dad beats, and the other was to make the family work again. That's why I think it's so imperative that the Raundalen Committee now draws up, which is a much more important debate about how we actually organise this – whether it's family courts, general courts or trial. Is our tool big enough, or is it too stiff? Are we flexible enough as to how a child protection worker or an employee of the police can react in such a case? As far as criminal matters are concerned, I would like to say that there I think it would be a disaster if we just leave it with stricter penalties. To look at general alternative solutions, e.g. Conflict management, in matters where we see families struggling, and where we can achieve both reconciliation, forgiveness and the possibility of a better life for the child, is absolutely imperative. A purely criminal case in many of these cases will completely destroy the children. So we need more warning, and we need more alternative responses that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e967	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic. I would also like to join in thanking the Council of State, which is so clear in its answers, not least that there is a need for much better cooperation between the different departments than it is today. I think that's very important in this case, which is about the legal certainty of kids in relation to child protection, or who are under the responsibility of child protection. Child protection has different roles and responsibilities for young people and can intervene and be responsible to young people in many different ways and to different degrees, such as: during leisure time, as assistance at home or in relief homes, or the child protection may take over the care of the child. In the latter case, it is the child protection that is responsible for ensuring that the child is granted his/her rights, including in the case of school and education. A study carried out last year by Buffetat showed that 24 pst. children's protection does not go to school at all. The progress party feels it is very serious when one in four young people in the institution does not get their rights to school. In addition, a study conducted by NOVA shows that former children’s protection clients have a worse living condition than the rest of the country’s population. They include: lower education, less income, is more dependent on social assistance and a large proportion of the unemployed. There's probably different reasons why it's like this. But it's not going to come from the fact that basic skills and education have an incredible amount to say about what opportunities you get later in life. Under the Training Act, students are entitled to receive training according to their own abilities and assumptions. It is particularly important for child-restraint children to be careful that they are granted their rights in relation to school and education, precisely because the public has assumed the responsibilities of parents and relatives in the past. In this way, the public has an even greater responsibility to be a driver and to be ambitious, just on behalf of children's protection, and not as it has proved to be until today, that child-restraint children actually feel that they are doing some kind of child-rescue service, as they are not faced with the same demands, etc. as other children. Making them weaker than they really are, we in the Progress Party think is the wrong way to help someone. This interpellance addresses the legal certainty of children and the structural organisational intervention that the Council of State will take to improve it. The Progress Party believes that child protection, school, municipality, county and other bodies involved in children for whom child protection is the responsibility must sit together and find good ways to cooperate. That is why I think it is very good that the Council of State is so clear that she sees the need for more cooperation. The Progress Party has expectations that the Council of State, together with other government councils responsible for children’s rights and legal certainty, will work to ensure that this cooperation works at all levels in order to achieve this, so that the rights are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e982	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for putting this important topic on the agenda. It is very important that we discuss the great challenge of children's protection, not least in relation to legal certainty and participation. Then I would also like to commend the Council of State that we have now finally received a Council of State that is concerned with the legal security of children, and mention what is important for the further work of the Council of State – that with the participation of children, that the voice of children should be heard, and that the legal security of children should be ensured. I think it is good to hear that the government is now busy and wants to get hold of it. There is a field that clearly requires that you do some grip and take the roof. I'm glad the Council of State is so busy. I hope that together, including the parties at Stortinget, we can help change the situation of many of the children – those who today are not being granted their rights when it comes to this. Legal certainty and participation of children is important. Unfortunately, we see several signals that they are not being cared for in a good enough way. Last year, Berit Skauge at NTNU and head of the child-rescue guard in Trondheim took a master's thesis entitled ‘Is there anyone who wants to listen to me?’. In the assignment, Mr. Skauge's findings showed that children are less informed than before and included in their own case in child protection. In nearly 70 p.m. of the cases that Berit Schauge went through, there was no trace of the children's voice at all. It is about children in institutions being allowed to be heard, and will be allowed to tell a little about how they experience their everyday life at the institution. It is a question of the fact that the children who today are entitled to the caretaker, who are not able to meet that requirement, will have it, simply because they will have someone to talk to if they are not cared for well by their foster parents. I could mention an example that is very illustrative. It was a 14-year-old girl from Sogn and Fjordane who called the Stortinget. She didn't know who to talk to. She had no supervisor, and she didn't have it well in the foster home she was in. She wondered who she could contact, and who could have helped her, to hear what she could do. She had managed to get her case handler in Child Protection. Then the 14-year-old girl was told that if she had problems, or there were things she wanted to raise, she had to send a letter of complaint to the County Council. It was a shock-carded experience. I know many adults who have enough problems sending letters of complaint to the County. If there are systems that just collapse – if they are the ones sitting at the bottom of the table, and they don't have parents to help themselves, who don't get enough help either when the government takes responsibility for them – we're sitting on the Stortinget, we have a big job to do. We need to ensure children's legal certainty. We need to make sure that we have systems that make the voice of child-restraint children much more audible and secure them. The gaps in the safety net that we see and get messages today, we have to close, because it is clear that these children are to be taken seriously, and we have to have systems to ensure that those children are heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e995	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the commitment she shows on a theme that we all now understand is important. Those who have now been on the pulpit have also shown the same kind of consensus – which I am very pleased with. We have a special responsibility to arrange for children to be seen and heard and to have the best possible growth. We need a welfare state that provides safe and good growth conditions for all children and young people, and then we need to give special attention to the vulnerable and most vulnerable children. Thanks also to the Council of State, which refers to very specific actions and assessments that are being carried out and which can also contribute to strengthening the legal certainty of children in the future. I would like to add some general comments to the work being done to strengthen child protection, as this is essential to contribute to enhanced legal certainty for children. I am very pleased with the work done and done by the government to ensure the legal security of children, among others. through good child protection. Through the child-restraint lift, we have, among other things, has been given a resource promise that has contributed to a strong strengthening of the first line of our child protection, the municipal child protection. This, together with increased appropriations to increase child protection skills, provides more knowledge and capacity – which help to improve the quality of child protection work, which in turn strengthens children’s legal certainty. On March 28th this year we were able to read an interview in the Newspaper with the new Minister for the Child, where we got insight into her great commitment to children and the legal certainty of children. In a way, we can leave this as a response to the representative Horne's wish that the Council of State will accomplish a lot in the year and a half she has left of this period. In the article, we could see how the Council of State will follow up the good work that has already been done in the Department and in the field of child protection – through a list of tasks such as: shows that the child-restraint is to be completed, more jobs are to be given, better organisation, more rights for children, better skills and better management. Under the heading ‘Will give children more power’, as we also heard the Council of State say instead, it goes on to point out that we must listen to the children and ensure that the children are heard – as the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Law presupposes. Then we have to give them much stronger voices in matters of violence, care failure, sexual abuse and issues related to association. It is important that children meet adults who take them seriously, that they learn that they are heard, and that they receive not least good enough information. Several have pointed out the need and desire for closer cooperation across units and departments, which is particularly important. We need to secure routines that capture the children as early as possible. I am very pleased with the signals we have now received that a closer cooperation between the departments in the areas of children and equality, health and justice is being initiated. The representative of Storberget was also inside this with the threshold to say from above being too high, and it has been today. There has been a debate that has been going on over the last few weeks, that the threshold is too high to say from now on. Then we have to find quite simple measures – I think – for training in kindergarten, at school – that the kids are told very early that you have to dry up. It's about the common pea in the nursery, that's already when it starts. They must be told that it is entirely lawful to tell us when adults do not behave properly. Of course, it has to be part of the education for those who are going to meet the children in school and kindergarten. I look forward to the new discussions and hearings that we will have in relation to child protection – future organisation and other measures that can strengthen the child’s rights and protection. The Council of State has also said that she will look at the need for legislative changes and the relationship between the Children’s Act and the Child Protection Act. Through more expert investigations, and now in the autumn of the Child Protection Panel report, we have an important basis for continuing the discussions and work to strengthen and further develop the protection of children and to ensure the legal certainty of children. When the Council of State also announces a proposition and a big message about child protection, I am absolutely sure that we can work together to find good solutions. We will ensure an improvement in the legal certainty of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1021	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue. The legal certainty of children we shall never finish discussing. I'm referring to that in Innst. 76 S for 2011–2012 a Joint Committee on Family and Cultural Affairs has stated that: ‘will underline the need for an ongoing debate on legal certainty and quality in dealing with matters of such importance to individuals and families’.» I will also give tribute to the Council of State for the commitment she shows in this particular problem area, and I agree with the representative of Storberget that much has happened as there has been broad political agreement, and there has been a lot of positive in this area over several years, even though we have a long way left. The interpellant is inside of the states and the way they work. It is important to stress that in its time the county councils were put in place precisely to strengthen legal certainty for young people, because they were not satisfied with the system as it was at the time. The evaluations show that, at least in part, this objective has been achieved by the Council of State. That doesn't mean that the system we have today is perfect, and the Christian People's Party is far from rejecting a debate on it. We have too long proceedings, as the Christian People's Party has pointed out from this pulpit on many occasions. There is also constant criticism of the use of experts in the treatment of the population — the different roles of experts in different contexts — and the way in which the reports are then treated and used. Nor will we ever escape, when we discuss the legal certainty of children's protection, a focus on the resource situation in child protection. If we are to take those alerts and statements of concern seriously, we need resources to deal with matters properly, in line with the principles of legal certainty. We have a government that has launched a deadline for everyone to have a nursing home, which launched a deadline for everyone to have a kindergarten, and where they even announced their own departure if they did not reach the deadline. We have a government that refuses to set a deadline for all kids in Norway to have a home. It is a matter of political will and priority, of what is lifted up as the major political projects. It's a responsibility for all of us to ensure the legal certainty of children – and not just legal certainty, but real security and security in everyday life – by feeling responsibility, not just for our own kids, but for the kids we meet in neighborhoods and communities, and by lowering the threshold of alerting and telling us when we have cause for concern. That threshold must be lowered. But: it's important to call the police and child protection about the neighbor when there's a reason, but it's at least as important to call the neighbor a little more often than many of us might. Because we actually have a responsibility, not just to alert, but to care about our fellow people and to make contact and show interest. The debate on the biological principle is an important part of the debate on legal certainty for young people, and here the Raundalen Committee has laid a very good foundation. I look forward to that debate. The discussion on legal certainty for young people involves many dilemmas that we never fully aim to respond to – whether that is how we should approach early enough in the event of care failure while ensuring that all parties are heard, and that all parties are given the opportunities they deserve, or how we should exercise supervision in a good enough way and at the same time give confidence to those who are responsible. In many ways, it's clear to us that we'll never finish that discussion. We will never finish improving legal certainty to ensure that we take care of each child.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1048	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for raising important questions about a topic that we are very concerned about – cross-politically – in the family and cultural committee. In recent years, I have had some meetings with the National Children's Protection Association and have also read very carefully the recording from the Children's Protection Professional. What remains to be recorded from them, and also in today's debate, is what concerns children's participation. Here I think we have to be a few that we can be better than we are today. I am also very pleased that the Council of State says very clearly in its statement that she will do what she can to strengthen her participation in child protection matters. It's an essential part of their legal certainty. We're talking about examples where a supervision is carried out, for example. in an institution where the children are not present at the time of the event, and of course it is totally unacceptable. We have also received feedback from the Health Authority that we do not have good enough routines in child protection for conversations with children, and I am very pleased that the Council of State had it in its article, and I have great confidence that she will follow it up in a good way. It has been – and is – a goal for us to bring down the process of child protection, and through a substantial strengthening of both municipal child protection and county council members, we have increased capacity. It's important that we keep doing it, so that we can come in earlier and give more family help. Several have named the Raundalen selection in the debate here today, and the selection determines that one looks at the subjects as a competent body, but that one also sees an increased need for specialised knowledge. I therefore thought that the Raundalen proposal for a family court could be very exciting, and I look forward to discussing this further. Both the government and we red-green here at Stortinget have long had a focus on interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation for and in child protection. We know that cooperation between police, child protection and schools has improved, and in order to ensure legal certainty, this cooperation is important. We need to talk to each other for the best for the young, and the work needs to be strengthened here as well. So I'd like to tell the representative of Hofstad Helleland, who was up here, that it's nothing new that the government is busy with legal certainty. Nor have we had government councils before. I myself have been in debates for the past six and a half years with former Councillor Lysbakken, where we have also had good discussions in this area, and which we shall continue to have. We have a government that does something! We also work actively in relation to this with elected people in close relationships, which the Council of State was also involved in. Competence in choice and abuse, both in kindergarten and in school and in the health system, is important both in order to be able to prevent better and to expose violently exposed children and young people. Here comes a big message this year. So, in addition to adopting big messages – for this government is active in this area – I think it is important for municipalities to draw up local action plans, for example. around the subject matter chosen in close relationships, such as: The ski municipality in Telemark has done. I also mean that we, as big-time representatives, can be involved and contribute to raising awareness of these questions. I sometimes meet with coordinators and group leaders on topics that we are busy with, both centrally and locally. Then there's one thing I want to learn. I think the interpellant was about this with legal certainty, that is, about how the kids themselves experience it. I thought the children's office for some time ago had a very good idea of this: Kids in school today are taught to call the police when something goes wrong, to call the fire service if it burns, but where should they turn if a friend tells them he's not at home? I think that the alarm phone number for children and young people should hang on a large poster in all the country's classrooms and kindergartens, so that the kids themselves know where to turn, for example. to the national children’s and young person’s emergency telephone, which is now established as permanent. A little comment to the interpellant in the end: I totally agree that something of the most interventional one can do is take a child out of the world, but I also mean that the biggest betrayal we can do is not to intervene when kids are exposed to care failure and are in a home that is harmful to them. It says something about the complexity of the entire field of child protection. I look forward to continuing these debates when the child protection news comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1073	I want to take advantage of the opportunity to talk a little about the matter that many of us got with us in Easter. TV 2 had more reports about Michelle. The journalist who had made these matters has taken a lot of people through in his job. He told me that he had never been away in an ugly case. I've met Michelle. I know that our new child minister has also done so. It is clear that when you meet children who have been subjected to care failure, torture and sexual assault for so many years, you are saddened that we are failing so completely in some cases. She could tell that she has had more than ten different case handlers. I think that if you have to deal with new case handlers all the time, it's very difficult to do a good job for the child, because they don't know the child. The number of case handlers seems so simple to fix, so we just have to put that in place. But Michelle's still fighting for life. She still has an unexplained situation. All the agencies have in a way admitted that they have failed her up through the years over and over again. I had hoped that the struggle to survive would be a little easier for her now. But she still works and fortunately keeps up her courage, but she also has heavy days. I have had contact with another boy, who I have been quite engaged for a while. Last year, when he was eleven years old, he moved five times in a year. The fifth time, something happened to him. He was totally uninterested in getting to know someone in the class. He didn't want to start football. He simply did not want to be part of his life. For he had done it four times before – four different other schools, four other football clubs in a year. He couldn't do it anymore. It was so bad to lose the new friends again and again and again. Just that matter I took up with the Audun Lightbox. I was very disappointed with the answer, I just have to admit it. He said he trusts that the system does what is best for the children. I think that sometimes we're too busy defending the system. We have to be better at realizing that a child of eleven years is not going to move five times, no matter what the system may mean. I just needed to say that. I've been in Stortinget's replacement committee. It's clear that the story up through tells us that we've failed many children. But an applicant described it so very well some time for me, and I've been thinking about it in a lot of other contexts. He said, "They said Mom and Dad couldn't give me enough care, so I had to live somewhere else." But then I thought I'd get something better. In fact, I could live with care failure or feel hurt with those I was happy with. It was actually worse to have it hurt with someone I felt was not happy in me. It's important to have with us now. When we go to the steps that we make a different offer, it must be better than what you come from. It must be stable, and it must be safe: it is your new home. This is where you're going to live. In terms of rights, we have quite a long way to go. When Michelle learns that her rights have been violated repeatedly, yes, what does that help? No one is held accountable. She's standing there just as empty-handed. All she knows is that she had a right. I have faith in the new Minister of the Child. I need to have faith in the new child minister, because there are many children out there who also need to have faith in the new child minister. I know she's got a big heart for babysitting. I am also pleased with the debates that come when we are going to chisel out a better child protection for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1094	First of all, I would like to say a thousand thanks for a very good debate. The last article of Kari Kjenaas Kjos makes us think a little bit. No matter how agreeable we can be here in this room – because we agree that we have to do something, and that it is important that we have systems in place – it is important to realize that there are some children and families out there who don't know the same consensus, and who don't know it that way. They feel that they have mistrusted child protection, and they feel that they are not being granted their rights. We have to do something about that. Then the representative of Storberget was in on this with warning. It's very important. We need to alert. We all have a responsibility. It's scary when we see that the kindergartens, which have the children for so many hours, have too little warning. It is also very important that child protection be able to take care of the warnings and do something about the warnings that are coming. We see more and more often that when child protection goes in and takes over, part of these children get almost worse. We can't stand and look at such things. We have to ensure individual help for those children. Several were involved in relief measures. Then we have to ask ourselves, does the help we have today help us? We have to dry out to go in and evaluate this. We also need to look at individual measures for each child, and we need to be more flexible. In the case of family courts, neither has the Progress Party concluded that family courts are the right ones. There are several people who have looked at it. The important thing for the Progress Party is to get it into the courts, so that we can thus improve legal certainty in relation to today. So no one's been involved in this with family councils. We have family councils today. It is important to gain the experience of family councils — where they are used and where they are not used. Why aren't they used anymore? Is the situation arranged for this on a country-by-country basis? The possibilities should be there, but we see that a lot of municipalities don't use them. This is important that we look at. Then there are several people who have thought that children need to be seen and heard to a much greater extent. I'm very happy about that. This is important to take over when we are now going to work on this matter – big message no. 1, which the child protection professionals have made. Here I think it's very good. And then finally, I want to say that we're looking forward to the proposition that comes. There have been many investigations. The undersigned may have been a bit critical of the fact that many samples have been put down, but I will honestly admit that it has come out very well, as it is important that we take over. We should at least be willing – here in Stortinget – to try to make a broad proposal to ensure the best legal certainty for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1114	I'm very pleased with what Solvency Horne said now. I think it has been absolutely necessary to reduce some of these samples and do this investigation work to be where we are now. We have had a total of five assessments of the child protection reform. We have had the Children's Protection Panel, which has done a great job, we have Child Protection professionals, who also the representative Horne was inside, and also the Raundalen Committee and the Befring Committee from the past, who look at the cooperation across – not least between the Health Minister and the undersigned and our departments. It will be very important to get this collaboration out in the municipalities. I am very pleased with the connection to the main ideas on how to proceed with the decision-making basis that we have now received. We need better cross-border and multidisciplinary cooperation for these children, and we need to strengthen children's participation – not just participation, I want to underline it. It concerns participation and the right of children to be heard and to express their opinion, as required by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We need to get better skills at all levels and also better management. What struck me when I visited one of the children's houses -- which I'm very proud to have been involved in establishing -- was how important they are in order for people to be able to endure in a job as stressful as it can be to stand in the front line in these matters, to be able to make a difference for a child. If you're going to be able to make a difference for the children, you need to have better cross-border cooperation, because that's what makes you capable of acting at the best of these children – it was totally unisoning from everyone who's been inside the children's homes, whether they were employees of health, police, child protection, or others who are important to the children. The fact that you have mutual and multidisciplinary cooperation is what you need to do to make a difference – and it gives you the motivation to stand in these matters. I find that the representative Kari Kjöna Kjos gave a very nice speech from the pulpit, among others. about Michelle, but she also reflected very well about how bad it might be to be moved many times, and how bad it might be to have many case handlers. I believe that one of the keys is that we need to continue the child protection promise, strengthen child protection in the future, so that people refuse to stand in it, and also strengthen cross-border cooperation and competence. Obviously, kids don't have to be moved around that way. I don't think my predecessor meant it either. I have never seen him as the system's defender – rather as a critic. I think it's important to be a critic, while being a friend and showing that we want the best possible system, so that these kids get it right. That must be the goal for all of us. Then I'm happy for the discussions. I think we're going to get to a lot of good for these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1127	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1141	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1150	The representative proposal, Document 8:58, from the representatives of Eriksson, Hunter Gåsvatn, Kjønaas Kjos and Olsen is about gradually introducing a ceiling for dental expenditure. They refer to the need for a public dental reform where public expenditure is to be increased and they want a self-interest. Together with the Christian People's Party, the representatives of the Advance Party will have a better screening system and gradually introduce a self-participation. The Party of Workers, the Centre Party, the SV and the Right would like the proposal to be annexed to the Protocol. There is no disagreement between the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre that it is important to put in place a partial arrangement for dental health, and that there should be further work on protective arrangements to ensure that they are helped with the worst economy. The right, however, shows in the setting that dental health for the healthy is a private responsibility, and people themselves have to take that responsibility. They want targeted help, not general solutions. The letters of the Council of State indicate that the follow-up of St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007, on future dental services. This refers to the fact that what is promoted in the proposal is already under way and that public authorities are gradually taking more responsibility for dental health. Concrete measures such as strengthening social security refunds by 137 million. kr, a price portal that allows us to compare dental prices and thus stimulate competition between dentists, and better treatment for people with severe periodontitis, is one of the things that has already been implemented. Different models of dental funding are now being reviewed, as announced in the National Health and Care Plan, and there is also an own-participation study. I expect that the parties will take up and justify their own proposals. For the Workers' Party, dental health is an important area that we see means a lot to people. We're impatient to find the good solutions that give us a better offer and that everyone can afford. What we've been busy about is at the same time ensuring that groups with high needs get a better offer. I point out that both drug users within the LAR, prisoners, victims of assault and torture, people with periodontitis and people with severe dental frights have improved their daily lives. This is how we gradually put in place better systems for groups that are struggling the most. The electronic price portal is a good grip and offers the opportunity to compare prices. I am pleased that a self-participation has now been investigated, and I understand that this can take time. There's a lot that needs to be done, but I also have a lot of understanding of the impatience that exists. In parallel with this investigation, we need to continue to add competence, we need to train more dentists, and we need to train more dentists. It is necessary to have an equivalent offer across the country. The introduction of the core journal will help to facilitate the dissemination of information on the health of individuals, and it is important here that other health professionals are also assessed in this context. Dental services are an important part of healthcare, and they assist and identify many health-related things. It is, among other things, an important contributor to the detection of children who are victims of abuse or people with eating disorders. The proposal also addresses the problem of those with neck and jaw joint fractures. The working party is concerned that they should also receive a better offer. We point out that it has been commissioned to investigate and process this, as professional treatment counsellors. It should ensure better treatment for this patient group, which is very hard-wearing and has a lot of pain. In this context, cooperation between professional groups is important and more competence needs to be built. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal is good, but that may not be necessary. The opposition knows that work is in progress, as notified in the national health and care plan. It's okay to be impatient, we are too, but it has to be possible to give the time needed to really figure it out, so that we can get to a system that's going to last and that will catch up with what we want it to do, that's to give a better dental service to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1178	In June 2007, the Stoltenberg government promoted its own impact on future dental services. The majority had a long and good handling of the case until the final decision in March 2008, but now over four years later we can see that nothing has happened in the main areas that the notification addressed, namely: 1. better rights for those who need it the most, and: 2. shielding expenditure for those who need it the most. Nor can it be said that the government has delivered on the third point, namely better access to dental services. This is directly disappointing. There was also no lack of election promises from the red-green parties in the 2009 election campaign. We all got with us the National Labour Party meeting, where the grassroots in the party won a victory over the party leadership. We remember Rune Gerhardsen’s statement: “Without teeth, the national meeting stops.” The party leadership warned against high costs, but through a democratic decision won the grassroots over the party leadership, and the voters were told that now it was dental health that was to become the main field of activity of the Workers’ Party in the future. The Center Party also promised a dental reform in which the public should take greater responsibility. SV considered himself to be a proponent in the dental case and expressed satisfaction that the other government parties were now following. One would almost think that a dental revolution stood at the door, for the Audun Light Hill rose on the barricades and stated that no one in this country would pay more than NOK 2,500 at the dentist if the red-greens continued to reign. Many were probably fooled by these beautiful promises, and the red-greens were given the most mandates in the election and were able to form a government. But already in the government statement, the dental elevators were faded down to the unrecognizable, and since then nothing has happened. The party of progress has for a number of years arranged for the teeth to be considered as part of the body. We know that many patients' disease plagues can have their cause in poor dental health. Similarly, we are fully aware that many diseases and medication can have the effect that dental health is also getting poor. It is therefore essential for patients to see this in context. The propulsion party was a driver for setting up a reimbursement scheme for patients with periodontitis, and many patients who would otherwise have lost their teeth and suffered severe distress may receive treatment on time because of this reimbursement scheme, so that the inflammation can be re-injected and the teeth maintained. Unfortunately, many people still cannot afford to go to a dentist regularly. We know that the government parties are committed to fighting wealth, but they do not show the same eagerness to fight poverty. Figures from the Central Statistical Office show that 140,000 Nordics can't afford to go to the dentist. So even though we have a well-developed dental service, there are a number of Nordics who are not economically able to keep up their teeth. Although dental health in the population has improved considerably in the last 40 years, some groups have major dental problems, and dental problems are greatest in people with low socioeconomic status. Don't we, as a society, have a responsibility? That's what the Progress Party means. We also see that 3 pst. of the country's population, dental expenditure exceeds NOK 10 000 per year. The progress party believes that we must also look here at whether there should not be a roof that provides a certain refund from the public when the dental expenses become very high. And of course, we're aware that there's free pricing on dental services, and we're concerned that it's still going to be. However, in our remarks, we refer to Sweden, which has solved this by linking reimbursements for given treatments to a public reference price list. A study shows that 14 pst. of those with income below NOK 200 000 believe that their own dental health is very poor, while only 2 pst. of those with an income of more than 1 million. kr is of the same opinion. The party believes that everyone in Norway should be able to afford to go to the dentist, while the government believes it should be reserved for them with thick wallets. I also want to focus on those who are at the bottom of the ladder of society, who have had problems with drugs, and where the dental health has expired, but who want a new life and a job. We can probably all imagine that it might be quite traumatic to put up for a job interview with a tooth set that is characterized by decay. I am calling for the will of the new government parties to follow up their election promises. Audun Lysbakken is now a member of the committee, and SV has the opportunity to help them with the worst advice. Thomas Breen will use all the prosthetics of the health care system to satisfy the dental vows of the Workers' Party, which will lead to even longer health cows, and that is certainly not the way to go. I still hope to support our proposals here today, so that we can get a step further and get a boost in the dental field in the last year of the Stoltenberg government. With this I will be able to address the proposals of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1206	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1209	Statistical centre has looked at the use of dental services. The Agency’s findings are as you can expect: the richest — the richest — and those with the highest level of education going to the dentist. We know that one in ten people have not been with a dentist in the last 12 months, even if they feel they need such help. Economics are given as a main reason why they have not visited a dentist. Several county councils have had major problems recruiting dentists to the districts. Especially dental specialists are dissimilarly distributed in the country. Geographical availability and adequate human resources are a prerequisite for achieving equivalence in dental care and for reducing social inequalities in dental health. The establishment of a self-employed dental care scheme is a long-term objective. The objective of an equivalent health provision in Norway must also apply to dental health, and dental health must become part of public responsibility, in line with other health services. Therefore, the Government of the Government Declaration has determined that public responsibility in the dental field should gradually be increased. Therefore, from this year on, the government has also reinforced the reimbursement of social security benefits for dental treatment of 137 million. kr. And that's why the government in the government statement says that it will introduce free dental check-ups for older people over 75 years of age. On average, we pay a few thousand dollars a year for dental services. The prices of dentists are not regulated and it is difficult for users of dental care to be informed about rights, prices and quality. That's why it's necessary for people to get a better overview. It is very good for the government to establish a price portal during 2012, which will enable us to find out about price differences. Through the portal, people have to be able to compare prices. Good dental health is still a class issue, for which the community has to take responsibility. It is good that the government is working on an investigation of different models, with a view to establishing a ceiling on how much each individual should pay for the costs of necessary dental treatment. It's essential that people have the opportunity to have good dental health, regardless of their own economy. We need arrangements where public authorities take greater responsibility in the dental field. That is why the majority of the committee has asked the government to come to the Storting with proposals on how to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1222	The Progress Party proposes the introduction of protective arrangements for people with high dental expenses and for people with low incomes – and the gradual phasing-in of an asset ceiling. In this case, all three governmental parties have some proposals when they relate to the intention behind the proposal. The party of progress and the Christian People's Party are some in ours, the red-greens, the goal, that the public must gradually take greater responsibility for the field of dentistry, with a view to establishing a ceiling for how much each individual should cover of expenses. This case shows that there is disagreement on the civil side, since the Right believes that dental services for healthy adults are a private responsibility. The good thing about the Right point of view is that they make a real priority. The problem is that it's a priority that, in my view, doesn't work. Everyone's got a few things to do with it. Rightly, in its comments, public responsibility and arrangements must be designed to meet the greatest needs. But in other health fields, we use general schemes, even if one could use the same argument when it comes to medical treatment, as one here does when it comes to dental care. Many would have been able to afford to pay the doctor's fee. The problem is that there are also many who would not have been able to afford it. The challenge that dental services should then be financed differently from other health services is illogical. We know that the Central Statistical Office, which is listed here, estimates that there are 140 000 people in need of dental treatment who cannot afford it. So they have bad advice in this country that doesn't go to a dentist on a regular basis. What is positive about the proposals of the Progress Party is that they are some with us. I understand that they want more red-green policy, and that they are impatient – so are we. But it's not true what has been said from the pulpit, that nothing has happened. We've done a lot - it's gone in the right direction. The ownership stack will be fixed. Groups with special needs have been included in the public scheme. We're expecting the model of an ownership roof to be fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1235	In its letter to the Committee on the Proposal for a Representative, the Council of State shows that it will follow the government’s electoral commitments, which are enshrined in the political platform of the majority government for 2009–2013. I read this as less concrete and less binding than the specific protection systems and other measures that were notified in the dental report. It was dealt with in the spring of 2008, i.e. more than four years ago. Something has happened, but we are not near what was promised in the dental report. I would also like to remind you of the Christian People's Party's commitment and suggestions regarding elderly people who are nurturing and who live at home. Together with the Advance Party and the Left, we proposed that all elderly people with disabilities should be provided with free dental treatment, regardless of whether they had public assistance at home, lived in an institution or lived at home with relatives as responsible persons. The parties voted in favour of this proposal in 2008. In today’s dental care, children, young people and the elderly receive institutional or home care from public rights to public dental care and support. That's great. However, the dental health of the elderly in nursing homes is not good enough. This is likely to be a source of nutrient problems, which many elderly people in nursing homes are struggling with. Retired elderly people need a further improvement in their dental health in order to achieve a good old age. Caregivers should be given more training and time to provide good oral care for the elderly. In this context, it must be pointed out that the provision of this service is the legal obligation of the county council. I think there's a few people who see dental staff in nursing homes these days as well. Many older ones are cared for by their relatives. These do an excellent job and also save public expenditure. But the relatives have more difficulty than ever getting social benefits associated with the care of their elderly. This problem is particularly acute in the context of the Interaction Reform and measures leading to older people living longer at home than in the past. It is a development that can be both correct and important, but I therefore believe — if possible even stronger than before — that older people who live at home and do not receive public assistance should be treated in the same way as older people at home and those who receive home care. Also those who live at home and who have disabilities should have access to free public dentistry. In practice, this is going to be giving dental care to one of the groups that need it the most. In addition, the government's objectives are according to St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007 on future dental services, social cohesion in dental health. Here's an obvious bias that it's hard to understand that the government has now closed its eyes for the last four years. Only in the national health and care plan 2011–2015, which came into force in April 2011, did the government report the launch of an investigation into different models of dental funding, including self-participation models. According to the Council of State, the government is in the process of investigating funding models. She doesn't spend any more time when this investigation work will be completed. I believe it is high time that the government put action behind the words and soon ensure that the dental service is included in a collecting health care, for which there is a majority in this room. I hope that from 2013 we will have established better protective systems for people with high dental expenses. Several have indicated that the government has granted 137 million. kr. to strengthen existing dental reimbursement schemes, which may also be addressed by the Council of State. It is true that this has been done, but at the same time it should also be pointed out that this money has been collected by reducing the item for special deductions for large disease costs from other groups. There is a concern in these groups – many of them will not be able to receive reimbursement from previous schemes they have had. Here you take from one weak group and you give to another. This may come to the fore in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1252	If one compares the Norwegian population with the population elsewhere in Europe, there is a consistently good dental health in Norway. For the Right section, it shows that people see that there is a close link between taking care of their own teeth and having good results in the form of healthy teeth. But it's also likely because people know that if you don't take care of your teeth, you get a dental expense yourself. Having good general dental health in the population is good. Therefore, we should take care of that system further, but at the same time ensure that those who have disease causes that lead to high dental costs or are unable to take care of their teeth get better protective arrangements than is currently the case. Therefore, the Right will not be involved in prioritizing a general screening scheme for the entire population, because, as the Dental Association’s investigations show, the general population will actually receive a higher dental bill than they have today, because it will cost more to pay for the dental service above the tax bill than it costs to pay it directly to the dentist. But it would be right to give priority to those groups that have high dental and dental costs associated with disease. Here, too, the picture is much more complex than what can be found in part of the posts, which think that there is only an exact relationship between the poor economy and that one does not use the dentist. Many of these have additional challenges related to drug use and psychiatry. It does if you just give a better dental care, but don't follow up, for example. The possibility that a dentist can also connect more closely to the other treatment apparatus in the area of drugs and psychiatry, will be able to experience that an acute toothache is being helped correctly, but disappears from the treatment unit afterwards, and returns shortly with exactly the same challenges. That's why this is a lot more complex, and from the Right, we want a job on changing the way today's dental services are, which not only involves better protective systems, but also to connect dental services more strongly to the rest of your dental health. It is a realistic proposal and something that could have been implemented, as opposed to the promises of the government parties, which have been only promises for six years, because of course one will never be able to prioritize a general protection scheme for the whole population. What's best is going to be the enemy of good, and those who pay the bill are the ones who should have got better protection systems today. Once the government manages to create a better reimbursement system, they send the bill to patients with particularly high disease costs by removing their tax deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1261	The representatives of the Advance Party show impatience in the case of self-payment self-treatment screening schemes. The aim is for the public to gradually take greater responsibility in the dental field. The government prioritizes ensuring the availability of dental services and follow-up to the call for proposals for future dental services, St.meld. No 35 for 2006-2007. The Communication outlines four areas of action: geographical accessibility of dental services, the balancing of social inequalities in dental health, competence and quality, and consumer rights and price policies. As representatives are well known, the 2011 and 2012 budget proposals clarify that the government prioritises the availability of dental services and a lifting of dental competence. It is gratifying to record that almost all county dentistry positions in the districts are now becoming obsessed. The increase in specialist dental training and the establishment of odontological centres of excellence have a long-term perspective. For understandable reasons, it takes time to get this in place. On a national basis, we are well-informed to build teams of therapists who are specifically qualified to provide dental care for torture and assault victims and for those with severe dental distress. Greater public liability means more than budgetary appropriations. Among other things, I can mention: An electronic price portal for dental treatment will be opened in 2012. We will put forward proposals for a new legislation that allows dental practitioners to practice on an independent basis. The proposal will soon be promoted for Stortinget. The Dental Services Act shall be reviewed for consultation in 2012. The issue of extending the patient and user care system to dental services will be addressed. The government’s policy in the field of dentistry covers a wide range of areas of intervention. The purpose of the government is to identify different models with a view to establishing a ceiling on how much each individual should cover in terms of the costs of necessary dental treatment. The investigation work is in progress, and the government will present it to the Storting in an appropriate manner. The representative proposal deals with people with high dental expenses and with low incomes. I would like to point out that the phasing out of the special deduction scheme for large costs of disease has benefited people with low incomes. These funds, $137 million. kr, has been used to increase the amount of social benefits for dental treatment of public health as of 1 January. When the funds are given as a social security refund, the benefit will cover all those who have the relevant diseases, irrespective of income. It also applies to those who have income so low that they do not pay taxes. I have noticed that the Progress Party voted against this proposal in the budget position. I believe that an overall committee agrees with the extent to which the investigation will be carried out. A number of aspects of principle need to be discussed. Among other things, I can refer to the large material underpinning a self-payment screening scheme for dental treatment in Sweden, which entered into force in 2008. The government is committed to ensuring good health care for the population, including dental care. We've strengthened the dental field, and we're following our goals, as they're formulated in the Soria Moria Declaration, by taking a more and more responsibility in the dental field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1293	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1297	The Government Parties and the Council of State manufacture these 137 million. kr that was taken from large costs of disease and added to the dental chapter this year, as a strengthening of public efforts. My question to the Council of State will then be: Can the Council confirm to the Council that this increase in the federal budget's dental chapter is due to the fact that there are several patients who are entitled to reimbursement under the existing reimbursement schemes and that the amount added does not fully cover the additional costs, so that what is produced as a bet is actually a reduction in the total allocation of the public dental service?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1302	It has been important to reach more groups in order to meet those who have the least financial opportunity to pay their expenses. I believe we do that with this redistribution of the special deduction. What's especially about having a type of arrangement like the special deduction is that you get to deduct costs from the tax. It requires that you actually have so much income that you pay taxes. We know that many of them do not have that kind of income, and rather they will get a better offer by distributing it more fairly to everyone. That's why the whole change in the special deduction scheme is a redistribution that we're fully behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1307	I have two small questions. One is, when will the investigation work be completed, and can we expect to get a case on this during this magnification period? The Stoltenberg government has been working on this since 2008. The second is what I mentioned about older residents who are cared for by their relatives. Does the Council of State realize that these will come under a future protective arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1314	When we are going to investigate protective systems, we have also said that we should work out different models with a view to looking at this with a roof. When we're going to do that, it must necessarily apply to all groups. We are very clear in the government statement that we are going to investigate these roofing arrangements, and that we are going to get back to Stortinget with it. The main priority has been to ensure that there is sufficient competence throughout the country and to increase efforts for those groups that have the most difficulty. I can mention addicts – for them it is very important to get dental treatment. We have a piece of legislation that we're going to have to consult. We'll come back to Stortinget when we've come further in this work, but we're in a period when we're working on these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1321	I didn't experience getting an answer to my question, and when the opportunity arises, I try again. The 137 million. kr, which has been fed to the dental chapter, contributes to the strengthening of the existing reimbursement schemes. Now it turns out there are several patients, so the amount set aside will not even cover the extra costs within this chapter, based on the information we have received. Can the Council of State confirm or cancel it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1328	It's clear that what's done here is a redistribution of what was special subtraction. Now this reimbursement applies to all patients, not only those who received a benefit from the special deduction being a tax deduction. But that's not the whole amount we've strengthened the dental field with. We've primarily taken care of those who have special challenges in terms of disease, in terms of intoxication, and in a number of other areas, so that the effort in the dental field under this government has gone from 730 million. NOK 1 640 million. kr. At the same time, it is clear that we are in a construction phase, and that we want an extension of this system, because we want the public to take a more and more responsibility in the dental field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1335	This means that the cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1351	My commitment to organ donation and transplanting didn't start – which probably many people think – when I needed a new heart myself, but actually many years earlier, when my twin brother became acutely ill. It was also my first meeting with the so-called heart pumps. Without going too much in detail, I can tell you that my brother was so damaged and so sick that the heart was broken. As we all know, it's not that new hearts are ready and waiting. His rescue was then a heart pump that kept him alive the days it took to find a new organ. It was an exciting time, I have to admit, but perhaps first of all an exciting time for him. The medical treatment of heart disease has gradually become better and safer as a result of medical development, and I believe that we can establish that Norway is among the best in the world. It is therefore very gratifying that more and more people are choosing to say yes to organ donation. This helps to save many, many lives. More patients than before are affected by heart failure, and there are many reasons for this. But faster and better heart attack treatment – blockage, stenting – better medical treatment, heart starters, pacemaker therapy, etc. causes more and more people to survive despite serious heart failure. But for one selected group of patients, heart transplantation is still the only and best option. However, many of those awaiting heart transplantation become so ill that they cannot wait at home until a suitable donor heart is available. These have so far been helped by so-called mechanical heart pumps – as my brother received in his time – which bind them to the bed while they wait. In recent times, Norwegian health services have offered patients in this situation the most recent, so-called LVAD pumps. This is an electromagnetic pump that makes you no longer tied to the bed, but that you simply carry the pump with you in a little bag over your shoulder. At present, heart pump treatment can only be used as a means of indicating the need for a new heart, and it cannot be used as a permanent treatment. I want to tell you that when I was in the hospital waiting for my heart, I saw a young girl, 14–15 years old, who was wearing a purse like that. That was the first time I saw this purse. She waited in her time for a heart. But during the year that she lived in the hospital with this pump, she became so healthy that her original heart took back its function. She lives today at best well without a heart pump. I saw her the other day on TV when she was visiting Las Vegas with TV 2. The type of treatment was possible precisely because she received a heart pump, and she could have it as permanent treatment. But in Norway, there is actually no opening to treat patients with heart pump that way unless the doctor thinks there is a transplant at the other end. This means that many patients are in a situation where, due to lack of organs, they cannot be given priority; they cannot receive alternative treatment. This again means that patients who could have received an offer through the heart pumps are not actually offered at all today. Unfortunately, during my career I have also met some of these – not all they live anymore, to say it like that. 15-20 pst. all cardiac pump patients internationally receive their heart pump as a chronic and permanent, i.e. life-long, treatment, and not just pending a new organ. Heart pumps can significantly improve the quality of life for these patients. They release repeated hospitalisations due to heart failure, and they can spend time at home, actually in activity. I myself have met a man who is now approaching 80 years, who is almost daily in the woods and chopping at, with his heart pump hanging on his shoulder. This is actually for many both better and cheaper treatment. Senior cardiologist at Oslo University Hospital Einar Gode says that they face very ill patients every day, and that most of them get a really good treatment offer in the Norwegian healthcare system. However, there is a small group of patients, says Gode, who has a very reduced quality of life, is expensive for the health care system and could profit greatly from receiving treatment with heart pumps for the rest of your life instead of switching organs. This was the reason why the Progress Party promoted this proposal, and that is why today I want to commend the entire committee, including the government parties, and the health and care councils in particular, today. Now, when we get a review and we can use heart pumps as a permanent treatment and not just as a bridge for transplantation, this is not a victory for the Advancement Party or a victory for the opposition – no, it is a victory for patients with severe heart failure and a victory for the cardiac environments. On behalf of them I am very happy, and I want to pay my respects to the government parties and to the minister of health and care in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1377	The representative Per Arne Olsen has given a very good overview of the matter, and there is little to add. I think it's natural to say that we share his great commitment, and underline once again the great support it is in Norway for organ donation, which has led Norway in this area to be the best in Scandinavia and to begin approaching Spain, which is the best country in the world in terms of this. That is why the proposal for a representative has also been put into a single committee throughout the text of the opinion, and it is a joint committee that supports the vote. As demonstrated by the intervention of the representative Olsen, practice in Norway today is that heart pump is only used as a bridge for transplantation and not as a permanent treatment. This is the situation following an assessment in 2008 by the National Council for Quality and Priorities. At that time, the Council was prepared for new knowledge in the time that followed, and felt it would be natural after a few years to review knowledge and evidence. After this matter was raised, the Minister of Health has clearly announced that it is time to ask for such a review, and we will await the outcome of this. Reviews in such demanding areas can be difficult, but I am sure that overall knowledge will be assessed in the best possible way. I guess when the government parties are in the situation that we get praise from the Advancement Party, it's so rare that we get to thank the rose.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1386	After that there is no reason for any further debate. Several seem not to have signed up, and the handling of case No. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1400	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1409	In today’s society, the demand for higher education and professional updating is crucial for the further development of a modern welfare society. In particular, competence will play an increasingly important role. This applies in all areas, both in the public and private sectors. My experience is that employers have good practices and not least see the value of investing in their employees and their employees to achieve new goals in their businesses and to have good competitiveness. Health services are no exception, but on the contrary one of the sectors which need to continuously update on medical devices, new treatments and, in particular, the use of old and new medicines. It is essential that employees update themselves professionally, so that patients can feel confident that treatment is based on high quality and not least have good patient safety. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has announced that in a short time there will be two large-scale messages on quality and patient safety and ICT in the health sector. Both of these large-scale messages will be important for how we develop good healthcare for the future. Both of these large-scale messages will also have chapters dealing with the area of medicinal products and how to ensure better quality of medical treatment in the future. It is important for hospital staff, decision-makers and, in particular, all those working in the care of the elderly to be constantly updated in the field of medicinal products and other areas of health care. Pending these large-scale notifications, the Council of State, in its mission document to regional health establishments, has underlined the need for continuing training of health professionals, that priority should be given to ensuring quality and patient safety in healthcare, especially in the field of specialist healthcare. The Government Parties are pleased that the pharmaceutical industry has decided from January 2012 that their member companies will no longer sponsor or pay for the participation and travel of health professionals to events abroad by a third party. This is important in view of the fact that a patient does not have or gets unlucky ties, and not least in view of the fact that patients should be confident that the treatment given is provided in accordance with the best judgement and competence of the doctors. This government is committed to further developing a good public health system, which will focus on quality and patient safety and not least on getting proper treatment in the right place at the right time. For this reason, the majority of the Committee refers to the good work done and done by the Council of State, and not least to the notification of the two major messages. We are proposing that the proposal of the Progress Party should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1422	The pharmaceutical industry has traditionally been one of the main contributors to maintaining and updating the competence of healthcare professionals in medicinal products. This update has taken place in many different ways, but also through the fact that the pharmaceutical industry has funded participation at a number of congresses and international courses. Participation in such congresses and courses previously funded by the pharmaceutical industry has contributed to the fact that far more doctors have had access to the necessary updates than would have been the case if it had been financed from health business budgets. From 1 January d.o.b. the pharmaceutical industry has signaled that it will no longer finance the medical professional updates. The pharmaceutical industry in Norway, as we know, is the first in the Nordic region to abandon the previous system. In Sweden, the pharmaceutical industry still covers 50 pst. the cost of this type of update, while in Denmark it is still almost fully financed by industry. This poses a risk that the Norwegian trade union environment will be suspended after our neighbouring countries if one does not have a conscious strategy for how to meet the future. The Progress Party believes that this change will contribute to a clearer division of roles between industry and health businesses and that this makes sense. However, there is reason to fear that this will limit the possibility for healthcare professionals to update professionally to the extent that they have looked forward to today. Good knowledge of different medicinal products has been and will be essential for good patient care. Misuse of medicinal products is estimated to cost the Norwegian community 5 billion. kr annually. Furthermore, as much as 5-10 pst. of all submissions to intrinsic departments concerning the misuse of medicinal products. The party agrees with the Council of State that the doctors themselves have a responsibility to stay at a high professional level, but believes that the employer also has a significant responsibility to facilitate this. We are also concerned that there is a signal that some health businesses are increasingly seeking less cooperation with industry on the basis of ethical points of view. While it makes sense to distinguish clearly between industry and the performer, it is also a fact that manufacturers of each medicinal product have considerable competence in their own medicinal product. This competence must be able to reach the individual physician in order to optimise patient treatment. A distinction between industry and health professionals should and should not result in poorer offers to patients. We are in a time when everyone is concerned – including us – with the intention of the cooperation reform to offer at the lowest possible level of care. There's another reason to remind you that 5-10 pst. of all hospitalisations due to the misuse of medicinal products. If we are to manage to reduce this number of posts while at the same time giving municipalities greater responsibility, it requires a broader approach than health care companies are following up their responsibilities. While health businesses are an important player, if the precautionary principle is applied, there is also a strong need for healthcare professionals in primary health care to receive adequate professional updates on medicinal products. We have to remember that very many patients actually get the drugs prescribed by their regulars. The Party considers that a clear strategy is needed to ensure adequate professional updating of healthcare professionals in both primary and specialist healthcare. This will help prevent mistreatment, and it will help to provide patients with proper medicine and thus better health and better treatment. I will therefore be allowed to address the proposal we have in the matter, which is that we want the Stortinget to ask the government to put forward a proposal that outlines a long-term strategy to ensure that relevant healthcare professionals have the opportunity to regularly update their medical products.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1450	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1453	We will consider a proposal for a long-term strategy to ensure the ability of relevant health professionals to receive regular professional updates in the field of medicinal products. The background to this proposal is, as I understand it, above all, its so-called Congress Decision to no longer finance that kind of professional update. The centre party fully agrees with its decision by the Medical Products Association and is pleased with the clarification that it is the public responsibility to ensure the necessary professional updating of health professionals added to the public health system. The Council of State has also made it clear that the responsibility for professional updating in the specialist services has been added to the regional health services, and this is pointed out in the 2012 mission paper. Then I have to mention that when the Progress Party, as the proposer, was involved in introducing the business model and transferring responsibility for the specialist services in a business model, one must have confidence that the system one was involved in introducing, also takes responsibility for the further training of its members. Neither is it the end of the pharmaceutical industry with all professional contributions to professional updates. The decision applies to the congress trips, so the professional meetings at the medical office and in hospital wards are not prohibited. They're still there, but it's good that there are some ethical rules about how much is going to happen there, and how much and how much this is going to happen. I'm very busy ensuring proper drug use in the population, so the intention behind the proposal is very supportive. It is important to prevent mismedication, and we have a great potential to avoid adverse side effects. Misuse of medicinal products is behind many unnecessary entries, even deaths, in the healthcare service. I want to focus on the municipal health service. I think we have a great potential to ensure better treatment systems in municipalities. I find it worrying about the feedback we receive, that supervision has revealed that hospitals and home services have a poor system of good drug use, and that there are not enough routines for drug reviews when moving levels, for example. from home to hospital or from hospital to hospital. Excessive consumption of addictive medicine is reported. The local government may not be good enough to get involved in this problem. That's why I think it's important that you continue to strengthen the work of medical staff in the hospitals, and make sure that the supervision that's being done has consequences in the individual municipalities, so that one teacher of them failed and the missing routines that are being uncovered. It is that the government has warned that a big message of quality and patient safety should be submitted. There must also be a big message about ICT. It is very important that medical care becomes part of these issues. Proper use of medicinal products is a prerequisite for good patient safety. The long-term strategy proposed by the Progress Party here, I am sure that I will be well preserved in the alert cases that come from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1470	5-10 pst. all hospitalisations are due to the misuse of medicinal products. Furthermore, the 2009 review of medicinal product management by the Health Authority in 48 hospitals shows deviations and comments by 40 of them. These are serious results. However, the studies suggest that although health professionals in education and specialisation have good learning systems for the proper use of medicinal products, this is not good enough. From both the patient’s point of view and a socio-economic point of view, this represents a significant problem. I am pleased that the employer's responsibility for ensuring adequate professional updates in the pharmaceutical field is clarified through the mission documents of health companies. In its letter to the Committee on the Proposal for a Representative, the Council of State states that the professional updating and use of new medicinal products and treatments shall be a natural and integrated part of the activities of health establishments and shall also be included in the operational costs. It is true that in the case of hospital doctors, this is to a large extent achieved through internal education, incubation days, various specialisation courses and also permissive leave courses. Unfortunately, however, we also see that many health businesses are struggling with resource scarcity. Understaffing is a common problem. Experience has shown that professional depression days and course activities can easily disappear. In such circumstances, it is of little help that modern technology offers many opportunities in the form of e-learning, video conferencing and web meetings. I hope and expect the Council of State to follow this situation closely and ensure that the responsibilities of the employer for the employees are actually followed, precisely at this point that is so incredibly important for the patients. For me, it is also gratifying that the Council of State points to many concrete measures aimed at reducing the risk of mistreatment. Regional pharmaceutical information centres – RELIS – are a good and user-friendly measure to reduce drug interactions. Medical core journals are another exciting tool, linked to the Interaction Reform, which can prevent mistreatment and which we have also received for treatment. A known source of mistreatment is precisely linked to the transfer of drug use between departments and levels of care, which was also attended by Kjersti Toppe. I also have good faith that the decision-making body, as part of its coordinator's responsibility, will contribute to safer medical treatment. The fact that the prescriber will be responsible for regularly updating the list of medicinal products of his patients will also increase patient safety. Hospital doctors will have a much simpler everyday life. Doctors who have experience with clinical pharmacists in the departments experience great benefits and professional development of such cooperation with pharmacists. This should be developed far further. There are also good opportunities for the statutory cooperation agreements between healthcare companies and the municipalities that are now being concluded as part of the Interaction Reform to lead to the enhancement of primary medical competence. As the Council of State points out, mistreatment can have many reasons. Professional updates are possible even if the pharmaceutical industry will no longer finance medical updates. Doctors have good knowledge of medicines as part of their initial and further education. Nevertheless, we see that too many errors occur. If you want to reduce the number of mistreatments, you probably need to look at what you can do to improve patient treatment. The working conditions of health professionals are an important keyword here. Mistreatment of patients is likely to indicate signs of disease in the healthcare system. I hope that the Council of State will also assess the effect of e.g. labour pressure, resource scarcity, working environment and long shifts as possible causes of misuse of medicinal products. The Christian People's Party supports the proposers in sketching a long-term strategy for regular professional updates in the pharmaceutical field and believes that this is both necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1489	Like the representatives of Kjønaas Kjos, Per Arne Olsen and Hunter Gåsvatn, I am concerned that healthcare professionals should have the opportunity to update their medicine professionally. In the interpellation debate last autumn on this topic, it was agreed that the pharmaceutical industry should no longer sponsor the congress visits of doctors abroad. Such ties may call into question the integrity and professional independence of healthcare professionals. The regional health undertakings have developed ethical guidelines stressing that cooperation with external actors should take place in such a way that the independence of business and health professionals cannot be called into question. Today’s discussion is about how we can ensure that healthcare professionals keep up to date in the field of medicines. This concerns knowledge of new medicinal products, awareness of adverse reactions and interaction between different medicinal products. The population shall be guaranteed safe, high-quality health services. In order to ensure sound patient treatment, it is important that personnel have the opportunity to acquire the necessary knowledge and competence. In the 2012 Regional Health Companies Mission document, I have clarified that the necessary continuing training of health professionals in healthcare companies is to ensure quality and patient safety in the services. This is also clarified in the reply of 20 March to the Committee. Regional health establishments report back what they have done in these areas in their annual notification. I closely follow up on how they follow up this requirement. As I have also explained in my answer, we have several good information systems to enable health professionals to keep themselves informed about the proper use of medicines. The State Medicines Agency has its own column in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal, in which they refer to new medicinal products to be marketed in Norway. The Agency has also developed a prescribing and despatch support service. The Health Directorate’s guidelines provide recommendations for medical treatment in different conditions. All regional health establishments have established regional pharmaceutical information centres, abbreviated as RELIS. These have their own knowledge bases with manufacturer-independent pharmaceutical information for primary health care and specialist healthcare. I would also like to mention that hospitals are good information channels for healthcare professionals seeking up-to-date knowledge of medicines. Employers and health-care workers share a joint responsibility to keep themselves up to date on a professional basis, including: on the use of new medicinal products and treatment methods. Training shall be integrated into the activities of health establishments and financed within a defined financial framework. General practitioners who are self-employed have a clear responsibility to keep up-to-date on treatment methods and drug use. Through the cooperation agreements with specialist health services, municipalities may agree that mutual training of doctors is part of quality development. Another important action in the Interaction Reform is the development of core journals, which will contain basic data on the patient. The introduction of national nuclear records will increase patient safety by providing healthcare professionals with up-to-date information on diagnosis and treatment. This is particularly important in emergency hospitalisation in order to reduce the risk of injury and mistreatment. Information and training for health professionals, as I have explained to the Committee, takes place through a wide range of actions and channels. A specific strategy in this area is not considered appropriate, but the thematic approach will include: be addressed in upcoming major messages. I will follow the measures taken and pay attention to the possible need for further action if this is to prove necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1515	The Council of State was concerned with various good actions that we all agree on: continuing training, good information systems – RELIS – hospital pharmacy, own responsibility for updating, core journals and the fact that the subject matter is to be further addressed in future programming messages. Nevertheless, the Council of State agrees with me – I hope so – on some of the things I mentioned, namely that we need to look more broadly at what we can do to avoid mistreatment in terms of medicines, and that we need to look at the working environment, both in terms of working conditions, labour pressure, professional resource shortages, long shifts, etc.? We know that this is often due to mistreatment. Will this also be included?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1522	I very much agree with the representative Davøy that there are many areas to look at here. I think there are a lot of measures, both technical by developing an electronic core file, and we have a patient safety campaign where one of the measures is medical care in hospitals, which the representative was involved in his post, and which is very important. Of course, it is always important for the working environment to look at this with long shifts and mistreatment. I trust that the Knowledge Centre will also review them and look at what is actually the cause when they get an error message from the hospitals and from the entire healthcare system. It is very important that we look into this, because it is clear that long guards can have serious consequences, and this is something that needs to be addressed further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1530	We now know that the interaction reform is in progress, that it is being rolled out, and we all agree on the intentions, that the primary health service should take more care of it. At the same time, the same governance options are not available through a mission paper to regional health companies. Then the question arises: How does the Council of State see that we are to ensure that the primary health service in Norwegian municipalities, decision-makers and all those out there are to receive the professional update they need? I wonder if the Council of State will share some of its thoughts on how we can assure ourselves of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1537	As I said in my post, it is therefore possible for the municipalities to conclude cooperation agreements with the specialist health service on the development of competence and training in this field. It is true that when general practitioners are self-employed, they have a separate responsibility to keep themselves up to date. This began with the fact that doctors were no longer allowed to travel abroad on congress trips at the expense of the pharmaceutical company. I think it might have been the general practitioners who at least have had that occasion before. Clearly, this is a major issue. However, there are so many areas in particular in the regional health enterprises — hospitals and all the guidance services I mentioned — that are important in this regard, as well as all the possibilities available for accessing network information, the Medical Products Agency, etc. I agree that it is important that general practitioners get good updates, but I also believe that there are many sources of further learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1544	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1560	The case concerns changes in the law on social security of the procedure for the establishment of wage increases in relation to the annual regulation of current pensions and the determination of the basic amount of social security. Today, this regulation is made on the basis of expected wage developments in the regulatory year, adjusted for any deviation between expected wage developments in the regulatory year and actual wage developments in the past year. It has been shown that this can lead to a development in which there is a discrepancy between the established wage growth in social security provision and the actual development of wage growth in society. In order to achieve a more precise definition, the adjustment shall take account of developments two years back in time. Today, this adjustment takes place one year back in time. The Committee stresses in its opinion that there should be discussions with organisations on the numerical basis for the regulation of basic amounts and pensions. It is important for the Committee to continue this system. There is an overall committee that is in favour of the amendments to the Law on Social Security § 1-4, 19-14 and 20-18, and the Committee is committed to this effect as of the year’s settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1573	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1584	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1608	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to go through the regulatory framework for the taxation of free telephone and other electronic communications services, with a view to abolishing the taxation of free mobile telephones in connection with the submission of the State budget for 2013.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1631	In Case No: 3–5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1639	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is proposal No. 1 and 2, from Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to improve the protection of persons with high dental expenses and persons with low incomes in the context of the 2013 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the gradual phasing-in of a self-participation in the treatment of oral disease in the period 2012-2016.’ Alternatively, these proposals are voted between the Committee and its suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1689	During the debate Per Arne Olsen put forward a proposal, No. 1, on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals that outline a long-term strategy to ensure the ability of relevant health professionals to update regularly in the field of medicinal products.’; Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1765	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1775	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-07.ana.ud972e1849	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
