ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e35	The representatives of Morten Høglund, the day Ole Tegen, Per-Kristian Foss, Dagfinn Højbrätten, Tove Karoline Knutsen, and Sonja Mandt, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For South-Trundellag County: Gunn Elin Flakne and Siv Aida Rui Skatem Two permit applications are available: from the representative Freddy de Ruiter on parental leave for the period from 30 January to 19 February from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen from 30 January until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Troms, Bjørn Inge Mo, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Line Vennesland For Troms County: Hilde Anita Nyvoll
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e105	Line Vennesland and Hilde Anita Nyvoll are present and will take the seat. State councillor Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm exceeded the following kgl. propositions: the proposal for timeshare and long-term holiday product contracts, etc. Proposition for the annulment of Law of 24 June 1988 No 64 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here [[withdrawal of transitional arrangements for workers from Bulgaria and Romania]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e119	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e122	I have the pleasure, on behalf of the representative, Trine Skei Grande and myself, to promote a proposal for a representative on changes to the foreign legislation in order to get more equitable family reunification rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e127	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e143	It's been a long six months since we last devoted an entire debate in this room to the IA Agreement. That was when the Stortinget adopted the legislative changes in the implementation of the renewed and strengthened agreement that the social partners arrived at in the autumn of 2010. The three sub-objectives of the IA Agreement were then continued: the reduction in sick leave shall be reduced by 20 pst. in relation to the level in 2001, this means that sick leave at national level shall not exceed 5,6 pst. we shall increase the employment of persons with disabilities after the age of 50 to be extended by six months; The last goal – to get people to do more work – is, of course, the goal we can agree on that we have already achieved well. The first two objectives — reducing sick leave and including more people with disabilities in work — are far more to be achieved. That's the follow-up to the goal of reducing sick leave I want to put the search light on here today. Sick leave is unfortunate for the individual worker, it is unfortunate for the enterprises concerned and for society as a whole. In the event of long-term absence, many sick-seekers lose contact with the workplace, which in turn increases the risk of permanent exclusion from the labour market. Long-term sick leave is – as we know – the gateway to disability. Therefore, one of our main objectives is to reduce sick leave. Too many people could avoid getting into the statistics by better follow-up. That is why the new IA agreement is also one of our all, the most important agreement. The IA Agreement is also one of the best examples of the outcome of the Norwegian model with strong tripartite cooperation. Tripartite cooperation results in a consensus of reforms, thus increasing the possibility of intentions becoming reality. Very few other countries can refer to the type of obligatory, long-term and involved work in the field of working life. In 2010, the parties gave us a new, strengthened and improved IA agreement, where we now need to see more of what we have seen work before to reduce sick leave, and we need to see it implemented faster. We here in Stortinget also adopted the legislative amendments for implementation, and the agreement entered into force in the third quarter of last year. As I said, the new agreement does not imply a hokuspocus, but is a continuation and reinforcement of what we saw in the old agreement. The whole basic and approximation of the IA agreement is that work is often the right medicine. Being able to go to work a little bit, being able to have contact with the working life when you are ill is helping to get you back faster. Work creates health. You should not only go to work when you are healthy, you should also be able to go to work to get well. That's how the new regime can be summed up, and that's also what we've arranged for in this room. Graded search messages are now the general rule, which we know is working. We saw that the absence sank the time you started using classified search messages. While we should be careful to pay too much attention to single causes to explain the development of sick leave, it already seems that the new IA agreement has had an impact. Sick leave goes down, and the use of classified search messages goes up. In the new agreement, we have initiated earlier and closer follow-up of the sick, we have imposed penalties for non-implementation for all parties, several training tools for the parties, we have received professional guidance for the sick, new follow-up group and trade group for the contract and more mandatory training. More mandatory medical training is important, as we have also seen in the past that sick leave has been reduced when doctors are in the course and we have raised awareness of this. It is essential that the new IA agreement be followed up significantly better than the old one, including: through a dedicated follow-up group, peer-to-peer group, action plan and IA Council in all counties. Nav's work centres are still the government's instrument of dealing with IA-agreements, and they have to function well, because without a well-functioning hub that follows well up, this is not possible. It is also crucial in the new agreement that we now make stronger demands for participation by all parties. We make clear demands on employers to facilitate adapted work in the event of illness. Of course, employees have an equally clear obligation to contribute, to make use of their own functions during the search. With the new agreement, the area for the prevention of high levels of sick leave has been added to the workplace to an even greater extent. It's important. The role of health care professionals has been examined with the new IA agreement. With a nurse who does not contribute to the traineeship, who does not participate in dialogue meetings and in this way does not obtain sufficient information about the job, the job life in which the patient can be reinvigorated, and who does not obtain information about how the employer stands ready or is not prepared to accept him, the sick person is less equipped to receive a realistic search message, get good follow-up and return to work. That is why we also introduced new sanctions for cases in which sick people do not cooperate. Without proper participation and follow-up from all these actors and Nav together, the return effort shall not receive the strength it must have. Therefore, there is also an effective sanction regime in place where participation and participation do not take place. I am pleased that the entire committee, when we dealt with the legislative changes, was fully in agreement, and therefore clearly emphasised that sanctions and fines are not an end in themselves. What we want to stimulate is that the actors do the job they're going to do in the pathology, not that they're going to write fines. The pre-penalty alert rules are therefore an essential part of the system of sanctions to be used for prevention. We received more notices late in the fall, and we also received more enquiries from both employers and nurses expressing concerns about their ability to follow up the new agreement with the instruments and obligations contained in it. Some decision-makers were concerned that participation in dialogue meetings is difficult and is at the expense of other tasks, despite the fact that the agreement with the instruments has been made with the parties, and that the stop-points are concrete with involvement and support, among others. from the Toys Association. The IA agreement will never lead to a reduction in sick leave and a better working life for more people if it is not followed up. Regardless of the combination of whips, carrots and control mechanisms, we are totally dependent on the different actors doing this and thus doing what is their job. We must have systems that capture those parties that do not want to and do not follow their obligations. At the same time, we also need to be careful to make such a comprehensive system that the vast majority of those who want to make an effort, and who do so, lose motivation and opportunity because it may feel and experience as if it were too time-consuming, clumsy and bureaucratic. The Council of State has also met some of the parties that had to wait to be introduced, and the sanction regime was then also suspended from 1 January, after dialogue and agreement with the parties. How will the State Council in the future ensure that the IA Agreement is followed up, that all parties do what they have committed themselves to through their central organisations, so that we achieve lower sick leave and less exclusion for the benefit of both employment and individuals? Does the Council of State now see any areas in which we have to go into and consider changes in? And, above all, what will the Council of State do in the future to ensure that the government is following its obligations through Nav, and that the employment centres are working well?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e181	Initially, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to explain the work done by the government and the social partners in order to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the More Inclusive Work Agreement. The focus of the representative Trettebergstien’s interpellation is on the follow-up to the sick leave and on the best possible implementation of the changes in the sick leave follow-up from 1 July 2011. Norway has a good health pay system. We're going to keep it. Sick leave in Norway is high. It is a challenge for both employers, the state and the individual. We have a common interest in helping to reduce sick leave. Since the signing of the new IA Agreement on 24 February 2010, much work has been done in implementing the measures contained in the Agreement and the Protocol. The new rules of the Labour Environment Act and the People's Security Act on the follow-up of sick persons entered into force on 1 July last year. The main changes were that the follow-up plan should now be ready within four weeks at the latest and that the dialogue meeting should be completed within seven weeks. At the same time, responses to those who do not follow up on their responsibilities in sick leave work are intensified. As of 1 July last year, we have also received professional guidance in the health care work for those who are going to seek medical attention. Furthermore, a regular feedback system has been set up for healthcare professionals about their own practices. Proposal for a regulation on compulsory training for all persons in need of medical treatment has been consulted and the Ministry of Labour is now working on the follow-up to this matter. Information and guidance work is also an important part of our joint IA effort. Among other things, social partners have developed a training tool for business organisation and launched the website including.no in the autumn of 2011. There is agreement that past and closer follow-up in businesses is important. For most people who are sick, activity is better than passivity. These changes therefore facilitate the increased use of classified search messages. In this context, it is important that health care professionals have a good knowledge of the follow-up activities at the workplace. Therefore, greater involvement of doctors and other health care professionals has been considered. The authorities contribute to cooperation and guidance on the one hand, and to supervision and control on the other. Both the State of Labour and Welfare and the Labour Inspectorate play an important role in the follow-up of the IA Agreement by the authorities. All IA parties, at both central and regional level, have a responsibility to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the IA Agreement. Follow-up to the Central Agreement is closer now than it has been in the past, and cooperation is anchored in the Labour and Pension Policy Councils. There is also a stronger emphasis on targeting the IA work locally, precisely because local partners have much more knowledge of what should be done locally. The IA Councils of Parties have been established in all counties to contribute to better regional cooperation in order to make the IA effort more efficient and targeted. Sick leave has fallen recently and is now at the level of the lowest we have had since the first IA agreement entered into force in 2001. From the third quarter of 2010 to the third quarter of 2011, sick leave has fallen by almost 5 pst. The proportion of medically notified sick leave cases has increased by about 30 pst. from the third quarter of 2009 to the third quarter of 2011. I'm glad that the unfolding seems to be going in the right direction. At the same time, further efforts are needed to achieve the objectives of the IA Agreement. Prevention is long-term, and we still need to increase efforts to facilitate and follow up better those at risk of falling out of work. The representative of the Trettebergstuen points out in the interview that there have been recent signs from some employers and health professionals that the changes from 1 July have had some starting problems. The new rules are perceived to be difficult to follow up in practice. In a meeting of the Employment and Pension Policy Council before Christmas, I discussed these issues with the social partners. The IA parties explicitly supported the IA work and the follow-up we agreed on in February 2010. At the same time, we agreed to work together to develop and implement more measures to facilitate the practical implementation of the new rules, in particular to improve information and guidance. This work is now well under way. We need to put in place good procedures for convening and terminating dialogue meetings. It is important to avoid the loss of time of a doctor or employer. The resources must be used for those who are in need of dialogue meetings. We must avoid meetings where the sick person is obviously so ill that follow-up is not relevant. The changes in the rules mean that doctors need to devote a little more time to patients who are long-term sick, and they need to be more interested in the relationship between the work situation and the health status of patients. My particular impression is that both the Medical Association and the vast majority of doctors in Norway, through their constructive contributions to the IA Agreement, are very conscious of their social mission. The new search notification rules have also been introduced with the support of the Medical Association. Employers shall draw up follow-up plans and organise dialogue meetings and report thereon. This is not new, but is now to be implemented sooner than before. All employers can report electronically, and this is also what the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has provided. In practice, however, there are only 20 pst. by employers who so far make use of this possibility. It is desirable to report electronically as much as possible. Therefore, as mentioned above, the work of social partners is aimed at making the implementation of the reporting as simple and as good as possible for both health and safety professionals, employers and the State of employment and well-being. Because of these start-up problems, the penalties against employers are applicable to infringements of the new rules only after 1 January of this year. This means that warnings issued after 1 January 2012 will be followed up with penalties if the employer does not comply with the obligations under the legislation. In many ways, the new IA agreement of 2010 represents a new one, with a number of new measures and not least a closer follow-up to the agreement at the central level, with a separate action plan and a policy-led follow-up group meeting monthly. So it's encouraging that we now get positive numbers. But we're not in any way in the goal. This year, we need to make the new IA measures work and deliver results in practice, and we need to ensure that all the work done centrally comes out and down in the establishments locally. There's a lot of local involvement, about which it's important to back up. Lower sick leave is in everyone's interest, especially long-term absence, which, as is well known, can contribute to exclusion and permanent disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e219	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have great faith and also see that the Council of States is fully focused on the follow-up to the IA agreement and is up-to-date on the follow-up of individual parties. What I experience most of all when traveling around the company on company visits locally is that it is doing so incredibly good work on sick leave locally on the individual company. There are many good examples of good leaders who have the will and ability to organize and implement. We're not going to forget that. In my view, it is very important that we in the Grand Duchy discuss the implementation and status of the IA work at regular intervals, so that we can be well up-to-date – in order to ensure that it works, and to help make the implementation easier if necessary, but also because we know that the debate and attention on sick leave itself contributes to getting the absence down. Then we're going to hope that we can create a little debate among others than just us sitting here today, too. The IA Agreement shall ensure better opportunities and focus on inclusion. The goal is, as I said initially, no more reporting for the sake of reporting and no more use of penalties in itself. We do not want more bureaucracy. We need to make sure that today's system is good enough, so that it contributes to the focus on opportunities we want to achieve, rather than focusing on constraints. We have to make sure that more people join the scheme, and that more people do more to get the absence down. That's our goal. At the same time, we need to be realistic, and take into account that some employers, some employees and some health care professionals want to get away from their obligations because it actually requires an active job to be done. You don't become a good I.A. actor by just signing a paper. Of course, it requires doing a job, and yes – it will often go beyond something else. When it comes to the doctors, the committee was also last year, when we adopted the laws, concerned that doctors cannot rely on exemptions from follow-up just because of a high workload in general. The role of doctors is crucial in the IA work, and in my opinion the new requirements for nurses are one of the most important elements of the agreement. If it does not work with the doctors, the agreement does not work. I am also pleased to hear that the Council of State reports a good dialogue with the doctors. As I said, I meet most positive and implementing employers and nurses. We're not going to forget that. I am also pleased that the Council of State has the right focus. We must ensure a smooth implementation, but at the same time we must be clear that the commitments must be followed up if the agreement is to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e234	I am pleased with the clear signal that comes that the Storting will follow up and follow up on the work done in the case of IA. I myself believe that we have received very many good measures in place. We hear and see in the debate that it is said that there is no indication that the means of close and close follow-up are the right ones, and that we have created a bureaucratic system that will not work. I just want to stress that what we have now taken into account is what we have been recommended by the expert group that in its time was composed of, among others. doctors and others with other knowledge, to enter into the new IA Agreement. I've been constantly concerned that we need to see what we're going to do to do things better. I have also now planned to have a research seminar where we will go through the tools. The other thing that I was into, and that I'm also very concerned about, is that we don't have to create negativity early in the process because of the start-up problems of something that's actually a new job: bringing doctors closer into the entire sick leave job, and getting employers to follow closer up from the beginning is new work. Even if we've done that before, they'll get more now when we move forward the time of the dialogue meetings. That is why I have been very concerned that we need to get good practice in place to convene these dialogue meetings, so that time is not lost. I am very concerned that we need to have good guidelines on which sick people are going to have dialogue meetings. I have heard some examples from employers saying that they are having dialogue meetings, or they feel they should, with people who are clearly not going back to work in a good time. So we're going to sort that out. No one should feel that they spend time on things it's irrational to spend their time on. I believe that we are now on the right track and look forward to good cooperation, also with the follow-up that is now announced from Stortinget. It is absolutely right that talking about sick leave actually also works so that sick leave goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e243	First, I will be allowed to compliment the interpellant on taking the initiative for an important debate. We should discuss from time to time one of the largest and, in my view, the best reforms that we have implemented in this country, namely the sickness pay system. It's a good one and not a problem. I feel there's reason to stress that very thing. However, as a consequence of this good system, we should also contribute to a better working life and a better working environment where workers are included and not exposed. That is the purpose of the sickness pay scheme. The rapporteur, Karl Einar Haslestad, in the municipality of Sande in Vestfold, told me this day that if his municipality were able to halve sick leave among municipal employees, the savings would be about the same as if the municipality introduced property taxes, that is. between eight and nine million. SEK in a municipality with 350 municipal works. I think the example of Sande shows the importance of a good and continuous IA work in the municipal sector, a sector that has had and has a relatively high level of sick leave compared to the private sector. It also shows that the IA work produces results and that it benefits. Increased use of technical aids and training in the workplace will undoubtedly help to prevent stress damage, but even more important is good management and sensible organisation of work. There is good evidence to claim that a good working environment in which workers work together, work in teams and depend on joint efforts, actually also reduces sick leave. The sick leave work also has an estimate of the full-time/part-time problem. Trustees of the Trade Union may report that they have gradually become aware that sick leave is particularly high among part-time workers who are looking for shifts in the youth sector to obtain additional income. So-called law enforcement officers have become a separate concept which implies that part-time employees fill in with additional security guards at the time spent in institutions. It almost goes without saying that it in turn contributes to increased sick leave. The interpellant pointed out in his statement the importance of doctors taking their part in the responsibility for sick leave work. Early intervention and follow-up of patients are of great importance to the out-of-office process. I have heard doctors say that sometimes they would wish for a system where it is possible to sicken patients back to work because they would have been better off participating in the good social community of the job – at least it is for most of us – rather than the patients going home and taking care of their own illness. We have now created this opportunity through a classified medical report where the patient should preferably be at work, of course, to the extent that the patient and the doctor believe they are able to do so. We also see that sick leave goes down, if not proportional, so at least as a result of the use of classified sick leave. Let me also mention the so-called Freshware Project, or the 1-2-3-4 project in Larvik, where Nav has taken the initiative for a new and more effective model for follow-up of businesses and sick-seekers. In reality, this is a scheme for the interaction and close follow-up of the sick. The motto in Larvik can serve as an example of too much sick leave work, namely early and close to everything that happens to achieve the best possible result, i.e. to think of the sick as a freshman, and that we can achieve good results by means of relatively simple interventions and interaction through early follow-up. The main idea is that it should be clear who is responsible for what. Of course, it's too early to evaluate the project in Larvik. But a lot is already drawing well, and it strengthens the project that the social partners close up and follow up the Refresher Project with great interest. It's good for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e260	I am very pleased that the interpellant is addressing this debate, and that we are getting a good debate on sick leave, and not least on the IA agreement. I fully agree with the interpellant that sick leave is unfortunate for businesses, but especially for those who are affected by a disease. I think we all in this room are very concerned that we want to have the lowest possible sick leave and the greatest possible job presence. But let me also make it clear that those who are ill and have a diagnosis should not be pushed back to work if they are not able to go to work. Nevertheless, I think we want to be as healthy as possible and able to participate in the working life. When we went through the IA agreement, when it was put in the pen and in the debates in the open room in the winter 2010, we heard words that were still going on. We want to do more of what we know works, said the Prime Minister. We have also heard in this debate that the new IA agreement is based on doing more of what works. My question is, do we know what works? We know exactly what, and can we document what works? According to E24 on December 6, 2011, we spend 1.2 billion. kr on the IA agreement in 2012 but no studies have been carried out to show that the IA work has a documented effect. At least that's what Simen Markussen at the Frischsenter claims. Markussen is well-known as one of the country's leading researchers in just sick leave. The importance of dialogue meetings is also highlighted. Markussen points to, among others: that we know very little whether the dialogue meetings have any effect at all. On the contrary, Markussen points out that some Swedish studies show the opposite. I agree that close follow-up is important and the key to reducing sick leave. I agree that classified sick leave was an important, correct and sensible measure to reduce sick leave and increase job attendance among people. There was unanimity in the Storting about the sanctions that were imposed, which the interpellant also points to, not because we should have more reporting, more bureaucracy and extra costs, but because we would have an increased focus on this work. So we know what works, which is also documented internationally, and which is documented at the Frischsenteret. A new employer model, which has been discussed, could have had an effect. It was documented, but it was not introduced because we do not have systems in Norway to implement it. I think it is a paradox that the measure agreed between the parties and which can be documented would have worked to reduce sick leave even more, there is no system to implement. That's why it's important that we also focus on and ensure that we have systems that can implement what is politically desirable, so that it doesn't turn out to be a policy based on the systems we have. I could well plan to challenge the Council of State in the last minute that I have, whether it might be an idea to launch a diet-benefit analysis, an investigation, of the IA work. I think it is nice that the department has not already started that work. An independent audit firm could have been found there, which provided an overview of all the state resources we spend on this, and also estimated the additional costs of reporting and managing the companies. They could not at least document it and set up a research group that had begun to see if there were any demonstrable effects. The IA agreement has now lived for ten years without us being able to prove whether the instruments are working or not. Finally, I would like to say that I understand that it is difficult to find out whether the individual measures are working or not, because sick leave is complicated. You are also asked what diagnosis you have, and what disease you suffer, which makes you unable to give a consistent answer, and which may also require more documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e283	The majority of the funds for the IA agreement are spent on the "return back" scheme, i.e. the majority of these 1.2 billion. kr or 1,3 br. kr. It's basically a good order. It's been evaluated with a little bit of a mixed result. The right has proposed some reforms in it that I think would work better. We have also been against the cuts that the government has made – just so it has been said. Thank you to the interpellant for an interesting debate. It's kind of prematurity because we've all voted for many of the same measures in this room. That is, we're pretty much in agreement with the angle of incidence of this. We need a strict control regime. That's the way you pick your tools. We have chosen not to do anything about the financial incentives, that is to say not to do anything about the sickness pay scheme and the payment, and so we have to have a strict control regime instead. So it remains to see if it will work well enough. We don't know yet. What we already know is that the mass minority and the opposition unanimously warned against getting too bureaucratic a system, seems to be going on. This is quite striking precisely because even if there were warnings from, for example, the The medical association in advance, it is right, I believe, as the Council of State here points out, that in general, the medical association agreed that this approach could work. When you have apparently managed to dispose of the goodwill you had from Norwegian doctors so early in the process, it is a problem. This is why it is incredibly important that the Department go some real rounds with the Directorate to ensure that this is done in as little bureaucratic a way as possible at all, so that it is easy not only for large enterprises but also for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's important. We also have more tools that we can use. It's important to be clear that the IA agreement is not an end in itself. The IA Agreement is an instrument. If the IA agreement does not contribute to reducing sick leave and meeting the objectives set therein, the IA agreement has played its part. The crucial thing is what kind of results you get. It also means that it would be interesting to hear what the Council of State sees as happening if the IA agreement does not work even better in this round. Before the last review of the IA agreement, the IA agreement had had good results in some areas, but did not meet the objectives at all. That means we're going to have to start discussing what's going to happen next. Unfortunately, an opportunity we have missed is the opportunity to do something about the funding system, i.e. to ensure that employers, those who employ them, are given a little more financial encouragement to keep people in work, to facilitate and make it easier for them to be at work. Based on what we could read in the paper, employers agreed that it was a good idea, so the government ensured a comprehensive tax regime that did not make the burden on those who own and create jobs in Norway bigger overall. We didn't get that done. Then the Council of State in this room told me it had something to do with Nav's computer systems – okay enough. Then is my second specific question to the Council of State: When will Nav have computer systems, so that we can make an important change that the experts, employers and employees have agreed is a good measure, but which we cannot do at present, allegedly because we do not have computer systems in place? I also believe that we must not just discuss, but that we must be for other instruments, for example. what Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has sometimes launched a few years ago, namely that you can look at Sweden and the system that they have had to standardise medical reports. We also know that in Norway today there are systematic differences in how long you get sick, based on where you live. It is not the case that a north alleyer and a telemarking should initially have different health care periods, based on the fact that they live in two different counties. There can't be such a difference between the two states. Now, these two states may be the states that are close to each other in medical practice, but it's now another case. The thing that is also worth getting along with is that in the countries that have a long medical period, there is also the highest proportion of people who do not have a job. Whether there's a context there, we don't know, but it's now that the majority parties haven't come up with a single tool to ensure that you get a similar health practice in all parts of the country, not based on geography, but based on what disease you have. Then, as I said, you could listen to Prime Minister Stoltenberg who had it as a good and interesting recording just a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e296	First of all, I have to say that I think we have to discuss this based on the fact that disease exists, that it's going to do that, and we just have to accept that. That we want primarily to reduce disease, and that it will lead to a reduction in sick leave, must be the main approach to this. Another main angle must be that we have to create a working life that is so that it is actually possible to be there with different health problems at different stages of life. Then it will be possible to reduce sick leave. I hope we never get there, as the representative of Røe Isaksen was in now, that there are staging representatives to determine the length of the search for different diagnostics. I mean, it's totally unprofessional. There is a medical assessment that should be based, and there are very different assessments, not related to geography, but to individuals. We must respect that and not start to fool politics with it. The health pay system in Norway is good, and we are going to keep it. So I.A. works? It's not that easy to say, because I think the IA work also infects the companies that don't have the IA, precisely because there are a lot of companies that want to bring down the sick leave, and a lot of people work well with it. When we discuss IA, we discuss sick leave very often, and we discuss seniors, but goal no. 2, including more people in the labour market, has received less attention over many years. That is why I would like to pay great tribute to the Council of State that is now, among other things. has launched the job strategy to start working much more systematically with this, as it is also an important part of the IA agreement. Then there have now been new practices in the agreement, and that is good. But it's also incredibly important what the Council of State says, that the scheme is being used sensibly, and that it's the ones that benefit from the dialogue meetings, that it should have them. One is that it's wasted resources to have dialogue meetings with people who are too sick to work more, and the other is that it's an incredible impact for people – and I think it puts the system in trouble – if it's implemented. It is important to have the strong dialogue and interaction with the parties that we have with regard to the IA Agreement, but it is also important to listen to the field of practice. You have to listen to what's happening in the individual workplaces. You also have to listen to a health care professional, because it is clear that the follow-up you get from a health care professional is very important. So it's e.g. It is important that we have a good standard of occupational medicine among health care professionals, so that they know a lot about it, that they know a lot about a topic that I have often discussed in the Stortinget, namely how to medicate people to disease and not from disease, and that you also have knowledge of working life in general. Obviously, it's good knowledge to bring with you, and not least it's important that doctors take time to talk to the patient, so that you get a proper follow-up of the patient. So for the follow-up of Nav. It is important to have routines here as well. But here too, it is equally important to use common sense in dealing with these issues, so that good help is put in for those who can come back to work more quickly with good help, and that those who need more time to get healthy will be at peace and get better. I would also like to remind you of the research that has now been carried out, for example. to measures for pregnant women in the labour market, which show that, with rather simple measures, it is possible to facilitate the longer working hours of pregnant women and to experience much less sickness and health problems associated with the job. The part-time trap was referred to by the representative of Gullvåg and it is important. Of course, if you never know when to go to work, who to work with, etc., it will also be very tiring and unsafe to be at work. The last thing I want to mention, which I think is the most important thing, is the follow-up that takes place in the workplace, and how to organise the working life. Many attempts have been made — and many attempts have been made — to reduce sick leave. I would like to mention again the experiment that has been done at the hospital in Harstad, where you have organized it up with solid layers working in nursing homes. They have all the jobs and are on tour for three days and three days. This means that they get quality, they experience building up their skills, and they have so long been free that they can recover when they have had a very strenuous job that is demanding both physically and mentally. Such arrangements need to be looked at more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e317	I must be allowed to thank the interpellant for a very important interpellation, and I would also like to thank you for a good debate. What is important when discussing sick leave, or insofar as the IA agreement, is that there are many dimensions. Basically, it's also about the work life we want, and that we discuss it regularly, is important. It's easy to agree on all of the negative aspects of sick leave. As politicians, we have good arguments to work to reduce sick leave through the economy, and we can easily think about the path to disability, but I'm glad that one is so clear that it's about the individual human being and what we can do to improve the quality of life for the individual human being. I think ‘work is health’ and other quotes that have come have been very good. From the Christian People's Party I want to be very clear that early efforts and close follow-up are what we believe in. Its longer time to go ill, the harder it is to get back to work. Therefore, it is also important that we discuss the measures we are taking to achieve that objective and whether that objective is good enough. In the debate on the IA agreement, it would have been exciting to bring in another topic, but when the interpellant targets it so clearly, I just want to insert the keywords: what if we hadn't had the IA agreement? It is clear that we can agree that we would like the sick leave to be much lower, but we must also be honest that if we had not done the heavy work against the employer, the results might have been even worse. So the Christian People's Party supported – or we really pressed for such a thorough follow-up of the sick as what we are discussing today. What we also want to be clear about is that the arrangement must be made. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would say that we must also be humble of any changes to the arrangement if it turns out that it does not work. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State says so clearly that in the case of meetings that it does not intend to carry out, or in the case of people that you see immediately will not have any use of the dialogue meetings, you also need to find good arrangements. It must not just be bureaucracy, but it must be a purpose to carry out the meetings. To succeed in the sick leave work, we depend on Nav, we depend on a doctor, we depend on the employer, and we depend on the individual subject. It is clear that Nav needs the expertise, they need to implement the dialogue meetings that have been set up — that is why many of these changes have come — and they depend on instruments. «Responders» was mentioned, and I think we need to constantly discuss whether Nav has enough measures and tools to help those who are in a medical period, back to work. The Council of State has also been concerned with the ordinary working life and whether or not it can use other means to get them back. That's good. The doctors may be at least as important. In many ways, they have an even closer dialogue with the sick person than Nav has, and they play a very important role. I agree with the representative, the Red Isaac, that the big differences are at least an indicator that someone might do better than others, and then it's also important that you can look at them and maybe learn, so that there's no connection between high sickness absences and multiple miscarriages, if that's really not necessary. It just shows that the doctors are doing a good job. That they meet with sick leave and follow up on those who are sick is very important in the long chain. Employers are then needed – necessary in the sense that they are involved in creating an inclusive working life that makes people not completely fall out or become ill. What one sees in those places that succeed in low sick leave – whether it be municipalities or businesses or others – is that there are good leaders and a close work on this. The trust project in Mandal is a good example of this. A number of measures are also being implemented, and it turns out to be working well. But they also need tools and adaptation to ensure that the individual can return to work, perhaps in a different role than one before being sick. But the individual is also important. Good cooperation is important not only between the employer and the employee, but also between the doctor and the Nav etc. I want to point out – and I think that is very important – that when the individual gets sick, there are not necessarily conditions on the job that do. We're whole people, and it's often that sick leave – I saw a doctoral thesis that pointed out that 50 pst. sick leave was due to domestic conditions. Then it's more important as politicians to be concerned about that side of it. But I agree with Trettebergstuen that whip and carrot are important. That's why we did this – we did it not for the sake of the fines, but because we believe that early efforts and close follow-up are so important that we can't afford to let that happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e336	I am very pleased that the representative Trettebergstien has addressed this issue. It's a theme that we have to talk about all along, because it's important to people. Having people in work is one of the most important tasks society's politicians have to do. Political decisions should work well out there, and therefore there is a constant need to renew and improve the measures so that they function properly. More than 60,000 people are now ill-reported, and for them, it is important how we solve all the challenges associated with presence at work. Our welfare systems about absenteeism and opportunities to contribute to what is possible are some of our country's top achievements in political decisions. It should be allowed to be ill in this country, and the sick should have safe living conditions. Having a job to go to is health-promoting in itself. Being part of a community and having the opportunity to contribute to it have a great health benefit. Absence from work is a risk state. So follow-up in work and organization is of great importance to the individual and to society. From my company visits, I get largely positive feedback on the restrictions that have occurred in connection with the IA agreement. The objections raised by the Council of State, such as bureaucracy, time use and knowledge, are also mentioned outside. But above all, there is a great commitment and enthusiasm to the measures and agreements. I experience a trust selected exposure and a management focus on this by having a good job for everyone. It's very far ahead of the employees' forehead. A trusted person said it like this: We must never forget that the next time it may be I who need some organization and follow-up, and therefore it is so important to have a job that can accommodate everyone. Another trustee who is responsible for the HMS work, which I met on Thursday, said: The doctors must require more of us. We need to talk better in order to be able to do better. There's still a lot of work to do. I think he's pointing at something important. He points to knowledge, and he points to changes in attitude. It is positive that the Council of State is so active in these processes and closely follows up both the Medical Association, employers and trade unions. While this is about organization at work, it's also about tolerating diversity, tolerating that someone is sick, and tolerating that someone can't act, do work, optimally all the time. My experience when traveling around is that this focus on the IA agreement has led to a lot of quality improvement in the workplace. There have been new ways of doing things, there have been new ways of getting in touch with the sick, and there have been new ways of organizing work, which is not just for the sick or those who need some organization, but which is actually a big gain for the whole company. Creating good, robust learning circles is a challenge. The fact that these projects, which we all have examples of from our homes, can contribute to good processes both in NAV, in the companies and in the trustee apparatus, and not least in the medical profession, is important. The government's investment has a broad approach. It is not the case that the IA agreement and work on the organisation of work are on their own. In addition, the government has presented other major reforms that also have a bearing on how people can make use of their work capacity and be part of this community. This applies to the Public Health Act. This concerns the Interaction Reform. This concerns the pension and disability reform. All these reforms will help to give more people in society the opportunity to do what they can at work. One challenge related to this is system failures and inter-system challenges. The most important follow-up to this work is that we now need to put in place mechanisms that allow the systems to promote good intentions and not hinder them. The project ‘iCompany’ received the 2011 Interaction Prize in North Norway this year. They had a challenge that just went on: there are no problems in getting people to cooperate, but sometimes there are systems that are blocking. There we still have a job to do, and I am happy to continue working on this important work that is getting the IA agreement to work out in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e363	Thanks to the interpellant for raising a theme on the follow-up to the IA agreement. This is very important. I've been so lucky to be a member of an IA company. I've also been so lucky to be a leader in an IA company. There are many challenges both to good and to bad, but there must be no doubt that the main focus of such a job must be a fresh job with fresh additions, when a person thinks in a life-stage approach, both as a leader and as an addition. I have used a lot of colleague support. There should be openness in a workplace, and if anyone is ill, all of us who are healthy, actually have a responsibility to take care of these. So I can say: I have worked in a health institution with, as statistics say, a high level of sick leave. I've been in a health institution with so-called high sickness absences. I was proud to know that the sickness absence for my additions was less than 2 pst. It was so special that they came and asked me, what are you doing? What is it? What is the code? Not to boast so much, but then I said it was about caring. It's about tore getting to know your additions at good and at bad and being present, not only when we're dealing roses and other candy, but also being present when the days are gray and heavy. It was like one said to me: One can report from his job, but one cannot report from private life. I think that's something we need to have a discussion about: in fact, it's not always the job that makes you sick – that the employer and the doctor should not get it paid. Here should come to a slightly different solution, I think, and it must have focus. Six months may not be so much to relate to, whether it works or one. The changes from 1 July were to be closer to the follow-up of the health report and the new sanctioning regime. Clearly, the interpellant is not quite happy so far, with the background of the changes that were then made. What's a little special, and I'm reacting a little bit to, is that employees haven't got so much focus. Yes, because there is no registered employee, IA work is not needed when it comes to follow-up. The IA agreement clearly states that individuals have obligations and that the obligations count equally and have equal value in all three parties. Employer must include: facilitate dialogue with employees and develop follow-up plans. Employees shall cooperate with employers in finding solutions, and health care professionals shall evaluate the overall picture against disease – just to name something. And there's a difference between the Legs. We have to admit that. When you're a tenant, you've got sick people who've got a different set, you're kind of thinking that it's sick, and what kind of set-up gets here. What kind of dialogue does one get here? When you see the name of the block, you think: it takes a little bit more time than I thought. Or, oh, yeah, it's going to be fine here. That's the way it goes in the world of work. We have to take that with us, and then we have to discuss it – whether it's competence, whether it's guidance, at least there's a difference anyway. What does not occur and what the government says is how to evaluate all these new changes. Are we on the right path? When the interpellant asks questions about whether the changes are not being followed, you might want to track the changes in transit. Or do we have such good advice in this country that we might be using resources in the wrong way? I think it's important to stop in between, stop and listen – and maybe there's not too many papers, maybe there's other ways to do this that's easier. I think so. Then there's nothing to change. It is good that it is a goal to bring down the sick leave. But is it the right way, and does the IA deal work at all? That kind of thing you have to think about, like, smooth and tight. Aware that the changes after 1 July also amount to much of the time allocated to the various actors. What I'm thinking a little bit about today is when we talk about the fact that the fixed medical system is out of the question, is that one should impose on that party even more resource use. Now there is a direct use of resources for the patient. But how should this be prioritised, with paper and meeting that goes under the IA agreement, and that will also be merged into an otherwise rather active life already? It's making this merge into each other that's really important. Finally, I would like to say that I am very happy that a dialogue meeting with a health care professional is not going to lead to anything at all. They may be in a tough disease situation, and there's a lot of extra tax actually to be called in to such a dialogue meeting. I'm very happy about that, and I want to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e386	I'll be allowed to thank you for a very good debate. Despite the fact that the various parties and representatives have some nuances in relation to what they might actually want to do in the agreement, the debate shows that the IA agreement is very much in line with the Stortinget. It is absolutely necessary for the achievement of the goal that it remains so, because the IA work is primarily a long-term, important work. Representative Andersen is quite right that when we discuss sick leave, it is important to think bigger, think about social structures, think about cause and prevention. We know a lot about who fills up the search statistics. We know that there are many women in health and care. We know a lot about which diagnosis is increasing, and we know that some other occupational groups are also strongly represented. It is absolutely essential when discussing sick leave that we start by providing decent, safe and decent working life, with good HMS work, with proper working time arrangements that allow people to work, and that fewer people are excluded from long-term sick leave. Although the IA Agreement has legitimacy in this Chamber, the broad picture of a decent working life or a more brutal working life is definitely a policy area where the various parties separate layers. The representative, Røe Isaksen from the Right, was concerned with the old proposal on norms of medical care, which we scrambled in the process of working on the new IA agreement. It's still a bad idea. Functional and job opportunities are not controlled by diagnosis, people are not A4. People with a diagnosis of social distress will, for example: have relatively different opportunities to go to work — whether the person is working as an archive or in the Gardermoen check-in. The Swedish experience with this system also shows poor results. It is true, as the representative Eriksson of the Progress Party said, that there is a lot that we do not know for sure about working. We have to turn it around and look at what we already know works, look at the effect, and that's a lot. Apart from providing the structurally superior, i.e. good quality in the working life that keeps people in work, we know from the old agreement that classified health services work, that previous follow-up, past entry, positive outcome. And when doctors focus on qualitatively good follow-up, the absence decreases. The IA agreement has now been in operation for just under six months. It's going to be exciting to keep up with evolution. So far it looks good. It was just the turmoil that was created before Christmas, which meant that I wanted to raise the debate here today. Finally, I agree with the representative, Mr Ropstad, who says that we must also discuss the IA agreement's two other and very important objectives in this Chamber. I am pleased that we will come back to that already in the next debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e403	Thank you for this important debate, which we have to sum up that sick leave actually goes down, that we have already saved large amounts of money on that decline, and not least that we have gained valuable labour that we would not otherwise have had. One in five, as I said, is today on a classified search report. Then questions arise as to whether we know that what we do is working. Among other things, I was. inside of my introductory part. However, the point is that we know that in 2004–2005 we had sick leave. Then we used a lot of the same thing as we do today, and we made more use of the current search message, which is now in many ways replaced by classified search message. So it's pointed out that people from the Frischsenter say that we don't have documentation for what we're doing. To that, I have to show again that we had an expert selection before we made the changes we made in the IA agreement. There was also a heavy representation from the Frischsenter that just thought this was the way to go. Then I record that there can always be disagreement about what are the right tools in terms of such a complex and difficult topic. We are always going to have that debate. But I think it's very important that we now get together for at least one year at a time – to say it that way. It's been six months since we actually adopted these rules. We have to get together about them, look at the effect of them, before we kind of start talking about changing these rules. Then I think we create zero predictability and zero support around the agreement itself, which we are totally dependent on having. Then I register that the opposition regularly returns to the employer’s payment and the ICT system. Yes, it is quite right – I have said this here – that at the time we had the choice to create an employer-funded system, on which the device could be discussed – the device should have been better in the state’s view – and to do something that would certainly have caused great problems for Nav. Then I chose, and I think that's right, to make sure that Nav didn't get the challenge of changing the funding mechanism, which we didn't know enough about the impact of. But I knew very well the effect of putting that burden on Nav. Now we're on. These include: granted 220 million. DKr, e.g. in 2012 for the ICT modernisation of Nav over a six-year period. The first thing we want to address is the ICT system, just to get this bad reform in place by 2015. So for bureaucracy: if you want early follow-up, someone has to be called up for early follow-up, it's that simple, but it's not more bureaucratic. I record that the employer and doctor do not like to be told that these things will be done, but if we stand together and work actively with this, I do not think we can call this unnecessary bureaucracy. We have to get rid of the unnecessary bureaucracy. In the case of doctors, I have not scoured away any trust. I'm now working with the doctors to go through this inequality in terms of medical practice, because we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e420	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e436	Before I begin, I would like to clarify a little bit of ambiguity in the interpellation text. It would be more appropriate to say that ‘Statistical Central Bureau expects employment to increase by 220,000’ and that 2014 is the right year here. I have previously communicated this to the Council of State, so it is not going to be a discussion about details here today. This theme is important. In the coming decades, our society will face a great and difficult task. It is a well-known case that the population is getting considerably older, overall, and not only do we live – fortunately – longer than we did before, but we are also healthier. While those born in the years following World War II, in the coming years, reaching retirement age, it will not be filled to the same degree in the generations below. In other words, we are getting older, and there will therefore also be fewer and fewer active workers behind each pensioner. At the same time, the need for skilled and competent labour will increase only in the years and decades to come. In other words, we need more hands. In order for us to be able to withstand such a development, we need to put measures on several fronts. We save by placing large parts of today's oil revenues in the State pension fund. We can open up more opportunities for labour immigration. We need to pursue a social security and tax policy that makes it pay to work for all those who are in working age. But perhaps the most important and simple measure we can take is to convince those who are approaching retirement age to stay longer in work. We live longer, we're fresher than before, and then it's also natural that anyone who can and will get to work longer. If you increase the real retirement age by a few years, it will make it much easier to deal with the elderly. Let me underline – in brackets – that those who are in heavy occupations, those who are struggling, should of course get rid of a well-deserved pension if they want it. We are pleased that there has been a broad consensus – mainly – on a good pension settlement, which guarantees this right. The Working Environment Act and the Age Limit Act provide for more or less a general age limit of 70 years. I say "more or less" because in practice it's not a general rule. In addition, there are a number of professions with special age limits — pilots and firemen have to leave when they are 60, policemen and prison officers when they are 63, feuds and nurses when they are 65, etc. At the same time — following the implementation of the pension reform last year — there is in practice no general retirement age, and there can be a drop of between 62 and 75 years. First, let us take the private employees regulated by the Labour Environment Act: As mentioned, the Labour Environment Act contains a limit of 70 years, meaning that the employer can remove the employee from work at the age of 70, without the need for termination. However, the employer may just as well not be — and keep the employee in the position as long as both parties wish. Nevertheless, in practice this is a truth with modifications. In September last year, the Supreme Court ruled that Reciprocal persons were entitled to get rid of an employee at the age of 67 as long as the occupational age limit was consistently enforced and the ‘compulsory’ employee could benefit from a sound pension scheme. It's not a good signal to send to the older garden, which we're going to be totally dependent on in the years that come. There are already many who feel pressured to go off, and decisions like those in our Supreme Court, will probably not make less feel out of date when you've passed some and sixty. Also in organisational life we can see signs of ‘age allergy’. We have recently been able to read about the LO rule of not choosing leaders over 60 years, such as. has the consequence that Roar Flöthen cannot be re-elected. For someone who passed 60 years not much more than a month ago, I have to say that I'm taking that rule personally. And if that's not enough, in the evening post last December 18th, we could read that employees at LO have asked their own trade unions for help after the LO management informed them that they must stop when they reach the age of 67. With regard to the other side of the table, there is no idea that the NHO is a driving force for older people in the workplace. After all, if you are to preach the true message, you should also set a good example and order your own house before admonishing others, but unfortunately, the situation is not much better in the state either. In contrast to the Working Environment Act, which allows for take-off only at the age of 70, the age limit for State employees is initially mandatory. Although it is possible to get a derogation from this age limit, such a mandatory age limit with automatic departure sends a clear and clear signal to workers: After you reach a certain age, we would prefer to get rid of you. Maybe it's to put things on the head, but it's hard to see that these rules can seem particularly motivating to good adult workers. In addition, such things create norms in the labour market, and the norm is about to set itself, that pensions should be abolished at least at the age of 67 — in some cases much earlier. Special age limits are one thing – another and perhaps even more important issue is the real age of departure. Although, for example: Police officers under the law can stand until they are 63 years old, the retirement age of most in practice is poor 57 years old. In the country as a whole, real retirement age — when estimated by unearned persons — is just under 60. Is that really nice? After the settlement of tariffs a few years ago, an AFP regime for government employees ended up where they can dispose of a good pension early, but where, unlike other employees, and quite unlike the intentions of the pension settlement, they cannot continue to work. In addition to a small amount of 15 000 kroner – hard enforcement – they cannot earn one penny. Overall, this represents a waste of resources that we will not be able to afford in the years to come. Much of this is regulated by agreements between the social partners, but that cannot be an excuse for not addressing the issue. The State is a large employer and is therefore a negotiating party with the opportunity to address these questions in the next round of negotiations. At the same time, many social regulations are regulated by law. I can't get into this debate with the perfect solutions, but that's for example. fully possible for Stortinget to decide that you are covered by the protection against dismissal until you are 70. It is fully possible to amend the Age Limits Act so that government officials do not have compulsory leave at 70, nor use this as a possible rather than a mandatory retirement age. The same applies to the flora, spread around in different laws and regulations, which regulates the special age limits. Many of them are set at a different time, when a significantly lower life expectancy and in many ways physically heavier work was the norm. It is well possible that a complete review of these is high time. 2012 is commendably declared by the EU Commission to ‘Year for Active Ageing’. I also record that the Minister of Labour's State Secretary, Støstad, pronounced in the evening post just before the New Year: ‘It is clear that social development with better health and higher life expectancy makes it natural to look at different types of age limits in the labour market.’ And on the other hand, «Seniors must be seen as a resource in the labour market.» But it's easy to talk about this, and we still have the benefit of getting a presentation of what will be government policy in this field in the years to come. Do you – if necessary – want to take a decision with the social partners on this matter? I hope the Minister of Labour and the rest of the government will use it as an opportunity to chisel out a senior policy – both for the labour market in general and for the state as an employer. I believe it is high time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e480	In the years to come, we will have an ever-increasing need for labour. The proportion of older people in the population will also increase. By 2030, about every four Nordics will be between 55 and 75 years old. In order to meet the need for labour, it is therefore important to facilitate the participation of older people in the labour market. At the same time, we must remember that the proportion of the population at work is higher in Norway than in most other countries. This is particularly true for the older part of the workforce. In Norway, 69 pst. of the 55-64 age group at work. The average for OECD countries is for comparison of 54 pst. So we are very close to many other countries in terms of the number of older people at work. However, the government is not satisfied with this and aims to increase the number of people in work. It will be crucial for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian state finances that we succeed. At the same time, we know that many people want to do more work. In addition, activity and work in old age will have a positive effect on the health of individuals. But it is also important to be aware that when we have such a good starting point, it is also more difficult to increase that proportion. The companies also have a problem here. In order to ensure the necessary labour and competence in the future, they need to look at older workers as the resource they are. This is why interaction with the social partners is also important. The government and the social partners have agreed to extend their cooperation on a more inclusive working life, with objective 3 extending the work of older people. The social partners shall jointly and separately facilitate activities which support this objective. Developments are followed by Employment and Pension Policy Councils. The trend is joyous: the professional frequency has increased for all age groups aged over 60 in the period 2007–2011. This is particularly impressive given that this has been a period of financial crisis, which led to a much weaker trend in the participation of younger age groups. The pension reform, which entered into force on 1 January 2011, has made it more attractive to continue working. The more you work, the more you increase your annual pension. This is an important basis for motivating older workers to longer careers. The new old-age pension can be taken out in a graduated and freely combined with work without shortening the pension. This, together with access to part-time work and other flexible arrangements, makes it easier to choose a gradual departure from work. We see that a lot of people have chosen to take out a pension early. Six out of ten of those who have chosen this, however, continue to work while taking out a pension. That is gratifying, but we need to follow closely developments in the future to see how the reform works at this point over time. In addition to economic incentives and attitudes in the labour market, the representative Graham is quite right in saying that there are a number of age limits that may affect the length of time for which it is possible for individuals to be at work. For example, pension entitlements in the population can be earned at 75 years, while the Labour Environment Act has a general age limit of 70 years. In the private sector, a number of enterprises have internal age limits of 67 years, while there are several different age limits in the public sector. These age limits serve different purposes separately, but give overall unclear signals as to how long you are expected to work. A review of the different age limits is natural, in view of the objective of increasing the number of people in work. With regard to the enterprise’s internal age limits in the private sector, the Banking Act Commission is now proposing new rules for private occupational pension schemes, including: adapted to the pension reform. We have to wait for the outcome of this work before considering any changes in the regulatory framework around occupational age limits. But I have previously also said in this room that I have a great understanding that the signal sent out just through this system is something we have to go into. But it costs money – it's about predictability of pension costs on the employer's side. With regard to the age limits in the public sector, most professions have an age limit of 70 years. However, some professions have lower age limits, known as special age limits. Today, there are posts with age limits of 60, 63 and 65. The main groups are in the health sector, police and defence. The so-called 85-year rule allows many to take out a pension three years before the special age limit. Most age limits were determined many years ago. There have been major changes in public health, working life and life expectancy later. The new pension scheme is also very different from the previous one. It is not obvious that the grounds for age limits are the same today. Now that reforming pension systems is approaching the end, it is therefore natural to review the age limits, as we have previously indicated. Rules for early retirement of healthy workers are not based on the objective of increasing the number of people in work. Work life needs to enable everyone to have work that is adapted to the individual’s abilities and needs — at all stages of life. However, it is important to be aware that the current special age limits, to which the interpellant is particularly concerned, cannot be abolished without further delay. The regulation does not just mean that the individual must stop working. A pension right is also linked to the age limit, which is of economic importance to the worker. The government wants to transform the system of special age limits in dialogue with social partners. The government will come back to Stortinget with this matter, without me being able to say here and now when and how, among other things. because it depends on the dialogue with the parties. I would also like to remind you that 2012, which was also the subject of the inter-pellant, ‘The European Year of Active Ageing and Solidarity between Generations’. In Norway, this is being kicked off by a conference tomorrow, and we will use this year to put the spotlight on older people as a resource in the professional life. The life expectancy of today's 60-year-olds is 84 years. Over the next 20 years, it will increase by over two years. The 60-year-olds are also becoming more and more eloquent, and job creation is increasing. Occupational activity among the elderly is also increasing, and the government is working along many lines to continue this happy development. I feel confident that further work on pension reform, cooperation with the parties on the IA Agreement and the Centres for Senior Policy Work to promote more positive attitudes towards seniors in the labour market will help us succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e518	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a good and well-worked answer, and I felt that in almost all areas she confirmed many of the relationships that I myself took up from this pulp, not only in relation to the positive development that has, after all, been in the world of work, but also in terms of the intermediate objectives that we have in the IA agreement. There are many considerations to address issues of employment. There are no balances that are simple – far from it. Employers must, of course, be balanced against the interests of employees, and the interests of the social partners must be balanced against socio-economic considerations. Had I had all the answers, I would have made a document 8 proposal today, rather than asking the Minister of Labour to explain the question in an interview. But what I still ask of the Council of State may be a more offensive attitude. We've been to the Centers for Senior Policy, and we've been to the point that 2012 is the year of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity, as it says. It has joined Norway through its EEA membership. The main reasons for the year and initiative taken by the EU are precisely demographic developments in Europe. From 2012, the proportion of active population will fall, while the proportion over 60 will increase by 2 million for each year for Europe as a whole. The EU has defined three main challenges, the first of which is to strengthen European professional activity among the seniors aged 55-64. Although we heard the Council of State say that we are a little better off than the countries we compare with, it's important to be clear that it's also a challenge here with us. I would also like to refer to the letter from the Council of State in the matter when we discussed document 8:142 L for 2009-2010, where the Council of State says – already at the time: ‘In my view, age limits in the labour market are a complex issue which should be reviewed in consultation with the social partners and other stakeholder organisations before any changes are made to the existing legislation.’ On the basis that the Council of State has therefore for a long time considered that this ‘should’ should be done – it is from the debate we had in 2010 – I believe it is right to call for a slightly more offensive attitude. There are many things you can do to give older people the opportunity to continue working beyond their normal retirement age.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e539	Let me just stress that the comparison with the EU – and that is to the extent that the interpellant is inside – does not always turn out to be quite good, because they operate in a completely different league than we do. They run senior policies from 55 years of age, and they work to increase participation from 55 years of age and up. We're a completely different place. Some of the backgrounds in the EU are that they have had a solidarity policy, where older people have withdrawn from the labour market in order for younger people to have a place in the labour market. We don't need it, we've managed to keep both young and old in the workplace, and we're going to be very proud of that. Having said that, I fully agree that age limits are important. I don't think we're going to overestimate the significance, because most people actually leave before they reach the age limit limit, except for special age limits, which I'm going to come back to. The most important thing we can do is work systematically for longer work. It's a long way to go until we reach the roof of most of those who go off. But I agree with the representative that that roof sends some signals. That's why I'm busy working on it. I think – and hear – that we have a lot of the same assessments of the situation, that there are no simple answers. Take, for example: The 70-year limit in popular fear: much can speak for it to be lifted, very much can, in my view, speak for it not to be. This is also about being able to get rid of dignity. It's about knowing that when you're 70, you don't have to wait for someone to ask you to go off or not, that's a rule. These are very difficult issues. I think one of the most important things in the future will be to follow up on how the pension reform works in relation to the flexibility of 62 years. I think one of the most important things to exploit older people as a workforce is to follow the flexibility that very many people want when they get older. Getting more participation from 65 to 67 for most employees in Norway, by taking part in some more flexible terms, I really think is the way to go and a very exciting scenario, which I know is that the Center for Senior Policy is also thinking about and looking at. Then I was challenged that I don't have enough speed when it comes to special age limits. I am also concerned that we should move fairly quickly here, but it is very important to see that this is a little interrelated, and that having a good dialogue with the parties in relation to special age limits requires an understanding of the whole of the problem of earned pension rights. I think we'd rather now start with the company's internal age limits. But I'm coming back to Stortinget – and I've been very clear on that – with a whole thing about how we're going to tackle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e550	Let me begin by commending the interpellant for raising a necessary debate, which in a broad sense is about the participation of the elderly in society. I believe in many ways that we need an attitude change for older workers, mainly among employers, but actually in the general working life. Before this interpellation debate, I have taken a little trouble looking at several party programmes, among others. my own, and it is not particularly uplifting to regard the older generation as an unused resource in the labour market. Maybe something is happening – I have a feeling that experience is gradually becoming more valued – but it is very far ahead. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's According to my calculations, there are three large-scale representatives who are currently qualifying for an old-age pension. And if there's a group in society that's underrepresented in this congregation, it's actually the older ones. Over 20 pst. Today, the population is retired, and we are increasing in numbers – and now I am also talking on my own behalf. We are increasing very strongly in the years up to 2020. If we go a little further and look at political advisors, both in the Stortinget and in the government apparatus, I think the picture is going to be even more skeptical. Without me now and here initiating some generational debate, I think that many would look different in Norwegian policy too if our decisions were based to a greater extent on age and experience. I stress that this view is not adapted to the nomination process in the Vestfold Workers' Party! We have, as the inter-pellant and the state council pointed out, adopted a pension scheme that makes it possible to work and earn pension credits up to the age of 75. At the same time, I recognise that the good intentions of the pension reform meet a practice that effectively prevents older workers from taking part in the labour market, simply because it does not pay off. I am thinking in particular of the public sector, where tariff negotiations in 2009 that are known meant that most things are going to be like before. Public pensioners have little money to earn at work, rather the opposite. Of course, I respect the 2009 negotiating result and have consistently insisted on the responsibility of the parties for the pension system. I note that there are also some people in the public sector who have come up with different ideas since 2009, based on the experience that is now being gained in the private sector, where the intention of the pension reform is made into reality, namely that employees can take out retirement from 62 years of age, and work as much as they want and can after that time. I'm glad that things now seem to be happening in this area and feel the urge to underline the socio-economic impact of the older people now working more than before: if we all work 6 months more before we take out a pension, the social security costs will drop by 12 billion. kr, but it is so important that the value added effect is close to twice that high. Now, as mentioned above, the social partners are negotiating the pension. Nevertheless, there are elements of the pension system with which we could do something without the specific resistance of the parties. I am thinking in particular of the coordination legislation of the public pension scheme, which, in my opinion, gives unintended results, and which results in workers who want to work actually being punished for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e567	To the representative of Gullvåg, it is good to come to such recognition as you get older and get more experience. Thanks to the interpellant, which highlights an important theme in our society – a theme that needs to be addressed not least when it comes to age limits. I've been so lucky to work with – not least I've been a leader – more people who have approached, or are in the middle, the age group that is a big resource, a resource not just for themselves and the family, but just as much for the working life. Having several generations around a workplace is rewarding in many ways. It is good for the individual to be allowed to contribute and not least to see that a master of developments at the workplace, which in turn strengthens self-image and health. The closest thing to acting as a mentor for the newly added younger is another important point. No one could teach me as much as nurse Berit and caregiver Anna in 64 years when I started out as a new nurse. These had long seagoing times and knew the workplace in all possible ways. They had history, they had evolution with them, and they knew exactly what they were going to contribute to us who were new. It was also a good idea to read a research report that recently came from our neighbor in East, Sweden. He concluded that 70-year-olds today are 50-year-olds 20 years ago. Yes, yes, we'll have those thoughts on. We who have passed 50, at least we think it's a little bit good. One has better health, one is more active, and one usually follows the whole way, regardless of whether it applies to developments in the workplace or in society in general. One tackles most of the things: duplicators and different contact networks and that's what we get with us, no matter how old we get. I look at my parents, who today are grandparents and grandparents. They run with both the Internet and the iPad – or ‘pado’, which we simply say at home. With the huge shortage of employees we're going to get the next few years, it's totally unthinkable that one of these great seniors doesn't benefit in a better way than putting their feet down with the background of their birthday. We've had a big debate over pensions in the last few years. It's almost an in-word. But it's not much in when it comes to work and age limits. Rather, it has become a culture to end as early as possible, regardless of one's wishes, and perhaps, work longer. This is in addition to special age limits. So one goes no further after the 67 year rule, no, one goes sometimes at 62 years, which is even worse for the working life – perhaps even for the individual. Of course, one should take care of the individual, one work may be tough for one and not for another. One must be allowed to take such individual decisions himself — not be governed by an annual. In the Mutual judgment, such individual consideration was not taken. Here, the need for recruitment and employment of younger people became a priority. The judgment for workers in today's labour market – those who want to continue working after 70 years – did not give the positive signals for this need and supply, which may not be good for either the individual or the socio-economic perspective. Moreover, when the government is not willing to provide senior seniors with better job protection, it will in future be a little brighter for many people who want to, and can, contribute. The need is there, and it is going to be quite special when there is a great deal of political agreement that it is worth working, that one should be stimulated and worked as long as an orc before the retirement pension is drawn out. So one has made clear incentives in terms of reduced pension schemes for employees who take out early retirement compared to pensions that are taken out at a later date – while the incentives to stimulate employers to keep, and to add, senors, are absent. So you have a long way to go if you say so, you have to act – something this country most needs in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e586	I have to admit that for a while I was sitting and thinking about whether I was old enough to take part in this debate, for one after the other, I boasted of being both 50 and 60 years. But that's how it might be that a younger person also gets into the debate, because it's about the future, well, as much as it's about today. I also think the parallel to the previous debate is a bit interesting, because earlier today we have discussed inclusive working life – and to the extent that the part relating to sick leave. This piece is at least as important. I have to say that there have been a lot of good posts. It strikes me that we really agree very much on where we want things to go. But then the question is, when are we going to do it, and how are we going to do it? That's why I'm pleased with the good posts that the interpellant had, which underlined the challenges of the rules today and the challenges of how we're going to achieve what we actually want. Therefore, it is important – as many have done – to point out that the State has an additional responsibility: we set frameworks and make laws. We can do more. So it's important to me that the Council of State listens to the elderly in the Workers' Party's big crowd, because there's a lot of evidence coming from there. But «transition» is actually a word I know best from another government council, so when Bjurstrom starts using the word review, it doesn't have to be a standard phrase. As the representative Graham pointed out, this is a theme that has been up many times, a theme that we've known about for a long time. That's why it's also important that we push a little bit extra on, so that the tempo increases. Because there are enough examples, there are enough examples of the mismatch that exists between the intentions we have and the policies we conduct. We agree that there must be changes, and therefore it must be possible to do so soon. This is particularly true of the special age limits – which are the one debate – that I believe are out of date. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State points to it itself, and I hope that you can reach an agreement that it can be moved on. But what I might be most concerned about is what's going on with the pension reform. If one takes it down to an individual level and looks at the individual, I think the challenge is even greater – although I can agree with the Council of State that it does not concern many. There's a lot of people who feel they're being skewed out because they're going to some age limit. The fact that we accept an internal agreement in enterprises on age limits even lower than 70 years seems problematic to me. It may be even worse when you start to think further in time: we have introduced a living adjustment as part of the pension reform. That means that we want people to be more at work, but that also means that for those who are no longer at work, it will punish themselves financially. It is clear that for those who have chosen to go a course where they have taken a little longer education – they do not get to work for so many years, and then experience that one cannot work anymore because of age – this becomes unacceptable. That's not necessarily the large number of people. Nevertheless, it becomes unfair for the individual to do so, so I think the lifestyle adjustment is a very good argument for one to go further with changes. What I think is important at the same time is that when you have a reform that makes it possible to earn a pension of 75, we as legislators must also facilitate that in fact it is possible. So I agree with the Council of State, and so far also with the interpellant, that there are some considerations that need to be taken into consideration. That's why it's okay that it's a review, but I think we should get some stuff to Stortinget, so we can discuss it. For right now there are many people who contact us and refer to both the one and the other sentence, and there are several who want the Storting to go into the matter and who do not accept that they are skewed out, as some people experience it. So from the Christian People's Party, we support what the Council of State says. She asked for perhaps a little bit more tempo, and she will get it – a little pressure from the Christian People's Party – because we want to get a case on the topic as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e599	Let me first say that I am very satisfied that the interpellant addresses this question. It's a question that we've discussed often in Stortinget. Since I was elected to the Grand Council in 2005, the Progress Party, and the undersigned, has made a proposal to do something about the provisions of the Labour Environment Act also related to the age limit. If I'm not wrong, we have three times, at least twice – I have to make some reservations about that very thing – promoted the specific proposal. In addition, we have raised the question a number of times both before and after I was elected to Stortinget. But what's amazing is that since the first time I presented the proposal on behalf of the Progress Party in 2006 – that's six years ago – you've heard exactly the same thing in this Chamber: we have to have a review, we have to look at the legislation, it has to be the social partners that sit down and discuss this in order to find solutions and come back. You've been doing that for six years. Then my question is, when can we expect a debate related to a change in these provisions? The social partners have had a number of occasions, through the wage-earning arrangements that have been in place since 2006, to address this issue, discuss it and find good solutions. I think it's sad when I see older workers, or what I call well-ripe, skilled, good workers, who are 70 years old, or all the way down to the age of 67, get pushed out of work against their will. The one nearby example to point to, namely, the Mutual Judgment and the Mutual Case, in which I myself have been involved relatively strongly, seems to me to be a prime example of how it shouldn't be, where the company, without even discussing it with the employees, sits down on a boardroom, creates corporate rules that say you can be pushed out of work when you're 67. I believe that in principle it is also contrary to the Working Environment Act, because it says 70 years. Now, the Council of State will probably have a different interpretation and a completely different legal ballast with it from what the undersigned has, but my understanding, my interpretation, of it is at least that the provisions of the Working Environment Act should be general corporate rules as well. If that's not the case, it's up to the individual board of directors of an enterprise just to kick out older employees. I don't want it like that. I think they're a resource, they're to be taken care of. Those who want to work should also be allowed to continue working as long as they are qualified to do the job that the company is asking for. I have great doubts about whether the parties will sit down and discuss this at the time of the salary settlement in 2012. I don't think we'll ever see it. Then six years have passed since I, and the Progress Party, promoted this proposal for the first time, after I entered the Stortinget. What does the Council of State want to do? Does she want to take this up? The State is also a party to the wage settlement, in line with the employee organisations and in line with the employers’ organisations. So the Council of State can also bring this question up in the payroll, put it on the agenda, discuss it, bring with it a clear change of law and show that now we have spent so long, without this having gone through thoroughly, and without us getting a step further. Now something has to happen. Does the Council of State wish to take that initiative, to put it on the agenda of the 2012 wage settlement? I hope the Council of State wants that, because I feel so far that all political parties, including the Workers' Party, want changes, but do not dare to make changes, because you are sitting on the fence waiting for what LO means. I find that sad when we see older workers being kicked out of work while sitting on the fence waiting. In 2008, if I am not mistaken, or in 2009 – it was probably most likely in 2009, when the Gebindige case came up – Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen was interviewed in Dagsrevyen and said, quoted freely, that we cannot have such a relationship. We have to take this seriously, we have to take this into account. It has also been three years since that time, so I hope that something will soon happen in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e618	First of all, thank you very much to the representatives of the big business, who have been involved in the debate and in several ways have deepened the impatience that I myself have expressed today. First, I would like to say that when the Council of State says that she will come back to Stortinget on her own matter, I naturally appreciate it – I share the impatience of the other representatives in this context. The position of the Banking Law Commission was one thing to wait for. It addresses some of the relevant issues of older people in the workplace, but far from all. It had e.g. it has been natural to follow-up the pension agreement with a review of the legislation and collective agreements to identify bottlenecks in the labour market which in practice prevent older people from continuing to work. I have highlighted one of these bottlenecks today, namely the legal age limit for certain occupational groups, but there are also many others. I have my pult full of examples of Norwegians who are shutting their heads in the age limit ceiling. We remember all the police officer Finn Abrahamsen, who said in the paper a few years ago that he would have said yes on the contrary if he had been asked to work for more than 60 years. We know that a company like Aker Solutions is a good example of a company that works actively to facilitate employees who want to work beyond the ordinary retirement age. We are familiar with the citizens' initiative in the municipality of Bærum. One of the builders must now leave the agreement with the municipality, but the patients want him to be able to continue, and he really wants to do so himself. I also have letters from physiotherapists that stick on the exact same roof. We also remember the judge in Bergen, Mangersnes, who would not like to leave his workplace either. Before the new year I was contacted by e.g. a despaired employer in a small enterprise that had an employee over 67 years of age. When he was diagnosed with long-term illness, the people's pension paid sick pay for only two months, while the collective agreement said he was entitled to sickness benefit for 12 months. Therefore, the company returned to pay for 10 months in compensation of employees. The conclusion of the employer was that they would never again be able to take a chance to take some over 67 years into the company. Then I have to ask the Council of State: how does this match the objectives of the pension agreement? This matter we have discussed is just an example of how it is difficult for older people to stand in the workplace as long as they want. The public – state and municipality – is at least a large employer and should go ahead and look at the possibilities to relax on some of this and break clearing. I quote State Council Aasrud from the debate we had in October 2010: «Some workers may experience the 70-year age limit as discriminatory because it may prevent further participation in the labour market.» [[...]] We do not want this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e639	Again, thank you for an important interpellation. There have been many discussions here about how young we really are. My friends and I always tend to say that we are much younger than our mothers were. I'm not sure our daughters think exactly the same thing – it has a little to do with how you look at it. We know at least that the population is getting older, and that's why this is a very important topic. I understand that there is an impatience associated with these issues. I stress again that there are very different issues that we are talking about, and that we must have the starting point: that we have a very high level of professional participation among the elderly in Norway, that it makes it more difficult, and that, by and large, it is not the roof of the population that is the challenge. But I hear very clearly a great concern, which I share and am concerned about, related to the special age limits. What I can't share completely is the impression that here the government has been sitting and sleeping evenly for six years. So there has been a pension reform that came into force not very long ago, followed by a completely necessary under-reform and old-age pension, which we adopted before Christmas. This is a lot of work. It is very natural that these things must be put in place before dealing with the special age limits, as I have clearly said that I will come back to the Stortinget, in a suitable form – how we follow up that part. It's a lot more, and the representatives know that. We agree that there is much more to it than simply changing the legislation. So I think there's a difference between the mutual-dom problem and the popular-security problem. I see very clearly that inside the company – and I think the law is fairly straightforward here – you can make such changes, because very many people feel that they are in conflict with the intentions. However, the Banking Law Commission is important, because it is about having a pension scheme that can be used in a flexible private sector scheme. We're probably going to have ample opportunity to discuss the 70s. There I think there are very different opinions across parties and across ages -- it's really a fun debate. What I personally am very concerned about, is that all the elderly should be able to get rid of the honour. That makes me think that raising the 70s limit may have some sides that we need to look very carefully at.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e654	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-30.ana.ud614e667	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
