ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e86	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Vigdis Giltun, Sonja Mandt, Per Arne Olsen and Torgeir Tjäldal on leave from 20 March to 23 March, and from the representative Oskar J. Grimstad from 21 March to 23 March, all to attend meetings of the Nordic Council of Reykjavik from the representative of Hadia Tajik on study leave from 20 March to 22 March; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tone Liljeroth 20.–22. March For More and Romesdal counties: Jon Georg Dale 21-22. March For the county of Nordland: Allan Johansen 20.–22. March For Oslo: Karin Yrvin 20.-22. March For the Westfold province: Heidi Ørnlo 20.-22. ==References====External links== March For Eastfold County: Erlend Wiborg 20.-22. March
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e160	Tone Liljeroth, Allan Johansen, Karin Yrvin, Heidi Ørnlo, Morten Stordalen and Erlend Wiborg are present and will take the seat. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e165	As my co-responsor is on board this week, I have to promote the proposal alone, on the reduction of Staten pension fund foreign investment in companies that destroy tropical forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e170	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will inform the representatives of the Storting that today's Youth Greatness is going on in the den, and that the representatives are cordially welcome to participate there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e186	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and distributed by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e195	Now we're going to treat Prop. 11 L for 2011 to 2012 on amendments to the Ship Safety Act. The amendments are proposed to implement the rest periods at sea, as amended by the UN Maritime Organisation, IMO, in 2010. There will be no need to change the general rule, such as: indicates that a daily rest period of 10 hours is to be provided. However, the IMO’s amended rules restrict access to make exceptions to rest periods, which must be reflected in Norwegian law. For certain ferries engaged on domestic voyages, areas 1 and 2, the Convention does not apply and the Ministry proposes a more flexible access here to exempt from the general rule on rest periods. The hearing bodies have largely agreed with the Ministry's legislative proposal for amendment, but there have been objections to the proposal that the draft law should be adjusted. Both the Maritime Organisations and the Shipowners' Association have reacted that the exemption relating to shunting arrangements for passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages within sea area 2 has not been proposed in the Maritime Directorate Consultation Draft Regulation. In the light of the hearing opinions, the Ministry has proposed the inclusion of a new provision in Section 24, which states that, following a reasoned opinion of the maritime and shipping organisations concerned, the supervisory authority may derogate from the first subparagraph of this paragraph on passenger ships with shunting arrangements engaged on domestic voyages in areas 1 and 2. The Progress Party has stressed in the suspension that the legislative changes should not lead to a weakening of competitiveness or increased costs for Norwegian shipping companies, and that the government must return to Stortinget on a case-by-case basis. On behalf of a Joint Nutrition Committee, I recommend a unanimous recommendation on amendments to the Ship Safety Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e210	Following the Manila Diplomatic Conference in 2010, the IMO adopted a revised Convention on Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, the so-called STCW Convention. The overall objective was to keep the Convention up to date on developments in industry, which is incredibly important. An interim objective has been to bring about harmonisation with the Maritime Labour Convention, as established by the International Labour Organisation, the ILO. These sets of rules overlap broadly, but it is not easy to produce a legal text that unites the two instruments. Previously, the Convention only applied to watchkeeping personnel. Now, as a starting point, it will apply to all those listed in official crew lists. Furthermore, a new mandatory minimum standard for health and training requirements is introduced in order to align them with developments in other legislation. You can now reduce the weekly rest period from 77 to 70 hours. This may take up to two weeks, but cannot be repeated until four weeks have elapsed. The daily rest period cannot be exempted and shall always be 10 hours. It is now clarified that the exemption in the case of emergency situations and drills applies to all persons on board, as it is apparent from the ILO Convention. However, the exemption from the rules on rest periods in order to ensure overall operational conditions resulting from the STCW Code applies only to watchkeeping personnel and persons with special safety, preparedness or pollution prevention tasks. The government parties have noticed that the hearing bodies largely agreed, as the case-rapporteur said, but we have also noticed that the ministry has taken note of the hearing replies from the maritime organisations and the Shipowners' Association in the case of shift arrangements on passenger ships in area 2. They reacted to the fact that the exemption for shunting arrangements on passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages was not proposed in the draft consultation. They thought that this would provide fragmented shift arrangements for the crew and more often long work trips to and from the ships. Government Parties support that, on this basis, the Ministry proposes that exemptions may be granted for shunting arrangements on passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages in areas 1 and 2. It is important that the exemptions already granted continue without a new application. Government parties would stress the importance that the changes do not incur significantly increased costs for Norwegian shipping companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e231	The option of Prop. 11 L for 2011 to 2012 on amendments to the Ship Safety Act, as the rapporteur says, is recommended by an overall committee. The Progress Party thus agrees with the content. However, the Progress Party would like to make it clear that the changes that are now being adopted as a result of this proposition could lead to a significant increase in costs, the Progress Party would like to see the Government come back to the Stortinge with a case on this matter. It is considered essential that one does not make up for changes that could lead to a deterioration in the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e240	There is no reason to spend so much more time on this matter. The rapporteur gave a fine presentation of the contents. As has been said, the legislative proposal aims to implement the rest periods rules of the so-called STCW Convention, which was adopted by the IMO at a conference in Manila in 2010. The Convention lays down rules on the training, certification and watchkeeping of seafarers. One of the objectives of the revision of the Convention was also to harmonise the rest periods of the Convention with the ILO Maritime Labour Convention, which has not yet entered into force. The Ship Safety Act § 24 on rest periods needs to be amended in order to implement the amendments to the STCW Convention fully in Norwegian law. On the Norwegian side, we have been one of the drivers to intensify the exceptions to the rest periods rules of the previous Convention. While it was previously possible to reduce the daily rest period to six hours a day, Manila agreed that it should not be allowed to deviate from the ten-hour rest rule per day. Part of the compromise reached in Manila was that the weekly rest period can be reduced from 77 hours to 70 hours, but there are pretty strict conditions to do this. Furthermore, it was a condition that derogations from rest periods should be provided for by a binding collective agreement. The bill was sent to the hearing in the spring of 2011. With regard to the views of the Hearing Officers, the Ministry has essentially followed the comments received. In particular, I would like to highlight the comments made at the hearing of the Maritime Organisations and the Shipowners' Association for Ferry in Zones 1 and 2. These are service areas which are not within the scope of the Convention. In this respect, all parties wanted the possibility to continue to derogate from the rules on rest periods, because such ferries have established a shift system with which the social partners are satisfied. The legislative proposal was adjusted after the consultation, so that the shift system in place today can be continued. The proposal also proposes some minor adjustments to the rest periods rules resulting from the amendments to the Convention. However, I would like to make it clear that the proposed legislative changes are fully in line with the changes adopted in Manila, and no specific Norwegian requirements have been introduced. Thus, within the scope of the STCW Convention, competition conditions in Norway become the same as in the rest of the world. We are pleased with the outcome of the negotiations in Manila from the Norwegian side. As far as seafarers are concerned, the changes mean that they will be facilitated to be more rested, which is also important for safety. Studies have revealed that some marine casualties are due to a lack of adequate rest for seafarers. The new rules will thus contribute to a reinforced safety at sea, for which I know that the Storting is also concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e255	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e269	I saw it coming up on the screen that I was going to talk for 30 minutes. I can reassure the assembly that it will probably not be that far a post. As the rapporteur, I recommend the Committee's recommendation to Prop. 35 S for 2011-2012 on consent to the ratification of a free trade agreement between the EFTA States and Peru and an agreement on trade in agricultural products between Norway and Peru. The Free Trade Agreement regulates trade between each EFTA State and Peru. The main objective of the FTA is to stimulate increased trade and economic cooperation between the parties. The Free Trade Agreement ensures Norwegian exporters and investors increased predictability and improved framework conditions. It provides Norway with improved market access for industrial products, agricultural products and fish. The Free Trade Agreement provides for customs freedom for all industrial products after a phasing-out period. However, Norway’s trade with Peru is limited, although it has been growing in the last ten years. Exports to Peru have been steadily low over these years, while imports from Peru have experienced strong growth. The main human rights challenges in Peru today relate to conflicts with local communities about resource extraction. It can also be mentioned that Norway has for several years provided financial support to Peruvian human rights and indigenous peoples’ organisations. In the negotiations on the free trade agreement with Peru, the EFTA States were given the opportunity to include references to ILO Conventions and fundamental human rights in the defence of the Agreement. As of today, we have concluded 24 trade agreements with 33 countries – 11 of which are signed under the current government. The last agreement we signed was with Hong Kong, China, in June 2011. It has just arrived at the Committee, but the agreement with Montenegro has also notified its arrival. Future growth in Norway depends on access to growth markets in the world. This is the job of the government through the WTO, EEA and EFTA — which provides Norway with one of the world’s largest networks of free trade agreements. That such agreements work, there is no doubt about it. We clearly see that, after the conclusion of free trade agreements, trade is falling apart. It is therefore important that we are out of business delegations to new markets in emerging economic countries, which provide opportunities to open up new markets to us. Singapore, Malaysia and the Middle East are on the agenda and are important, but also more African countries, such as Angola, Ghana and Mozambique, which are three of the world's fastest growing economies at the moment, are important to work towards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e286	I can reassure the assembly that I am not going to spend my entire speaking time. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, who gave a good account of the content of this agreement and what it is about. I want to make a contribution on a slightly more general basis related to all the free trade agreements we have either concluded or are in the process of being concluded. We are in a period of negotiations with many actors and with countries of different sizes. We run and negotiate through the EFTA system with everything from Indonesia, which is the fourth largest nation in the world with 240 million inhabitants, and down to smaller countries in Central America. What's interesting in the negotiations we're having is the content and the differences that this is all about. I'll be allowed to just focus a little on, among other things. Indonesia. There has just been an EFTA delegation, which I myself was in, in Jakarta, a little over three weeks ago, which met with the Indonesian authorities, among others. the Minister for Trade in Indonesia. In the conversations that were there, one also says something that I think can become more and more common after and after, namely that it is not very relevant to conclude a purely free trade agreement without anything more than that, and one corrects, among other things. attention to so-called capacity building in the country. I believe that we should soon have a debate on the content of the free trade agreements and on what is going to be there by both the government and the Grand Duchy. The background for me saying this is that we have several different incidence portals. We have not yet ratified the Colombia Agreement, because there are things that are not in place in that agreement yet. If it is ratified, you may notify it to the Council of State, but as far as the undersigned are concerned, it is not yet in place. Of course, it could be that you solve some of these difficult issues that the United States has done by adding human rights and other things as a side agreement to the free trade agreement itself, or you can put it into the agreement, which you have also chosen to do with someone. I think it might be time for us to have a debate on this, and how to deal with some of these requirements in the coming years. Because it is clear that, among other things, On the part of Indonesia, the need to have significant capacity building in its own country as part of the free trade agreement can present us with significant challenges in the coming years. I also believe that it is important that we ensure that we do not engage in too many negotiations at the same time, but focus on and are results-oriented through what we are to achieve through the agreements. Then the committee has also just been to Brazil. Of course, it would have been very desirable and happy if you could get in place and get negotiations going for Brazil. For the time being, it has not been possible, and we just have to take that on board. I would encourage the Council of State and others, during their visits to this huge country, which offers great opportunities for Norwegian business, to continue to try to push, but not least to talk hotly about what can be achieved through a free trade agreement with this country. For the time being, one has failed to get in that situation, but I hope you can get there if not for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e303	There's a single thing available, but now we got a – let's say – travel letter from the committee, so it's an opportunity to comment a little bit wider. We now have a very comprehensive effort to secure free trade agreements for Norway around the world, and this is because WTO negotiations are silent, the Doha Round is in dire straits. If we are to share in the fabulous growth that is taking place in many parts of the world other than Europe right now – in South-East Asia, in South America, in some cases even in Africa – we must ensure good framework conditions around our businesses. That is why we have many processes going on, but at the same time I believe we have enough capacity. We work closely with our EFTA partners in many of these processes; we also coordinate ourselves to a certain extent towards the EU, where parallel discussions take place, among others. on the issues not directly related to commercial engineering but to the environment, workers’ rights, etc., of which both we and the EU system are concerned. And then we see what opportunities we have to secure Norwegian companies in the markets that are most interesting. We've also recently started with Central America, and it's going to be an interesting process, but it's probably Southeast Asia that's the highest on the agenda, both with China and with Indonesia. We also look at the possibilities for Vietnam and Malaysia, and we have agreements in place with some countries in the region. In India, there is also an exciting process that is going very well, and Russia is also negotiating with. So I just have to say that I think what the committee does when you travel around and create political anchoring, understanding and dialogue with your colleagues in the countries with which we are negotiating is very positive. As in Norway, trade agreements are political issues that create discussion, and having the direct dialogue between parliaments is a very good way of understanding that we will create win-win situations in these negotiations. But capacity is good, and we are dealing with the political issues, including the issue of Colombia, where, in particular, labour rights have been a very central issue. I am sure that we will also get it in a very good way, so that we will both get a good framework around trade and a contribution to employee rights in a country that is a long way away from the situation we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e314	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e341	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e350	Prop. 12 L on changes to the Government Acquisitions Act and to the Municipal Law and Prop. [[implementation of the EU Enforcement Directive in Norwegian law]] 44 The inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the regulation on public procurement may not have been the two issues that have gained the most loophole in the media lately, but they have been so extensive that the Committee had a wide open consultation. Here were the NHO, the Business Association, the Trade Union/LO, the Land Association of the Construction Industry, the Land Association of the Oil Industry, suppliers of Health-Norway and the KS. A short, simple summary from this open hearing was that the NHO was most sceptical and that the KS was most positive. But you might also say that scepticism was pretty big, and that even some people thought they should put the matter under investigation and deal with this very thing. In addition, Prop has. 44 S delivered an opinion to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and Prop. 12 L has been the opinion of the Municipal and Management Committee and both of these committees have joined the draft opinion of the Economic and Social Committee and have had no further comments. Questions have also been sent to the Council of State for the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church concerning the alternative procedure in Chapter 14 of the Supply Regulation to which the oil and gas industry is subject, as it might appear that it was not dealt with in the proposal. In response of 19 January 2012, the Council of State states: ‘The new enforcement rules are not introduced for the alternative procedure of Chapter 14 of the Supply Regulation to which the oil and gas industry is subject.’; In its comments on Prop. 44 S for 2011–2012 referred to its comments and suggestions in Prop. 12 L for 2011–2012, which is the most frequently mentioned. There has been a shared committee, where the government parties support the matter, and where the opposition, at the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, have its own comments and suggestions. The further role of the KOFA in particular constitutes the differences. At the same time, I would like to make proposals from the minority so that this is not forgotten. KOFA, which is the subject of complaints about public acquisitions, deals with a number of complaints about breaches of the public procurement law. Over time, KOFA has dealt with more than 2000 complaints and has built up trust and competence. The public sector awards annual contracts for up to 400 billion. kr. Acquisition law aims to ensure efficient use of resources and to contribute to confidence in the socially soundness of acquisitions. Therefore, my further post will most mention the Progress Party and the rest of the opposition's comments. Experience shows that there is a need for effective enforcement of infringements of the legislation. This is done by pointing out errors to the contracting entity during the procurement process itself, by bringing an appeal to the Board of Appeal for public acquisitions, or by bringing a dispute before the Court. Effective enforcement requires easy access by suppliers to these services. The Progress Party is skeptical of this reorganisation and fears, first of all, that the transfer of the enforcement of the acquisition law from KOFA to the courts will weaken the uniform interpretation and enforcement of the acquisition law of KOFA since the entry into force of the acquisition law. The transfer of the enforcement of the legislation to the courts may, in the strictest sense, be the result of regional differences in interpretation and practice. Secondly, the Progress Party fears that transferring enforcement of the procurement law to the courts will help raise the threshold for appeals in the procurement field. This could significantly affect the legal certainty of small and medium-sized local economic operators who do not have the same access to legal and financial resources as large national and international companies, as well as the greater financial burden they bear, as in some cases they may be entirely dependent on public contracts to survive, as these contracts constitute a majority share of the client portfolio of the individual. The Progress Party also considers that the individual obligation to state reasons must be maintained and does not support the Government’s proposal to introduce a less extensive obligation to state the name of the selected supplier only and at the same time provide an explanation of the characteristics of the selected offer. Today’s practice provides suppliers with a good opportunity for individual justification, transparency and transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e383	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e386	The working party is committed to the optimum management of Community funds. Government purchases goods and services for a total of 400 billion. kr every one year. It is therefore important to ensure effective acquisitions through good procedures. The objective of this Directive is precisely to improve the effectiveness of enforcement of procurement legislation, including: by ensuring better pre-contractual intervention opportunities for suppliers. The emphasis is also placed on enforcement in the case of illegal direct acquisitions. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church set up a public body to recommend how the Enforcement Directive could best be implemented in Norwegian law, in order to facilitate a comprehensive and well-functioning Norwegian enforcement system. The government is now not only promoting proposals for implementing the substantive rules of the Directive, but also considering how the overall Norwegian enforcement system can best be organised. The proposal proposes that the courts should have the formal sanctioning authority, including the competence to impose all new sanctions under the Enforcement Directive. It is also only by appeal to the courts that the right to conclude a contract should be suspended. At the same time, the admission of KOPA to impose an infringement fee for illegal direct acquisitions shall be suspended so that KOPA again becomes a purely advisory body. In order to extend the competence of the KOFA, a number of changes in the organisation and procedures of the KOFA need to be made. For example, it had to be opened up for oral negotiations and the provision of evidence. Such changes would mean that KOFA would become a special court far away, which we do not have the tradition of establishing here in Norway. Therefore, the right of KOPA to impose an infringement fee is now suspended and is a necessary consequence of the new system of penalties introduced by the Enforcement Directive. It is worth noting that KOFA can still be used to get an advisory opinion on whether there has been an illegal direct acquisition. The difference is that KOFA will not be able to impose an infringement fee. The Workers' Party believes that KOFA will not lose its importance because of this change, as there has also been most of the KOFA's advisory cases in the past. Important steps are also taken by changing the obligation of justification, so that the contracting entity is required to provide only a justification, which is in line with the proposal of the majority of the sample. When the justification is now to be provided automatically, it will provide the supplier with the full basis for assessing whether the procurement process has been properly arranged or whether there is a basis for a complaint. The justification must be a description of the characteristics and benefits of the successful offer in relation to each award criterion. During the open consultation on the Storting on 9 January, the Land Association of the Oil and Gas Industries indicated that the oil and gas sector is not subject to specific procedural rules for acquisitions. However, the Council of State, by letter of 19 January to the Food and Agriculture Committee, has shown that the oil and gas sector does not actually need to follow the detailed procedural rules of the procurement legislation. Instead, they may use the so-called alternative procedure. For example, this is the case here. not required for publication. It also means that the new rules on standstill, suspension and penalties, which are precisely linked to the detailed procedural rules, shall not apply to entities in the oil and gas sector since they are subject to the alternative procedures. The government also proposes amendments to Section 59 of the Local Government Act for matters relating to compliance with the legislation. This is done because the law enforcement in the area of procurement needs to be seen in the context of enforcement. As there are also other bodies that control compliance with procurement rules, a derogation from access to regulatory control is now proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e403	Let me first commend the rapporteur, who has added to a very thorough and good discussion of this in the committee. I agree with the latter speakers from the Labour Party that the Community's resources should be managed in the best possible way. We still have discussions about that in our society, based on different angles. That is why this is an important issue in this area, that we have legislation that is clear and not least effective. To date – to work well – we have had KOFA as a well-functioning body to impose a fine and enforce penalties. There is no doubt that it has worked well and efficiently, and that you have been involved in a lot of things. And not least: this has been a low-threshold offer for particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. Transferring this to the courts will raise the threshold for complaint and handling cases. There's no doubt about it. In addition, of course, it will take longer in the courts, and that will create a higher threshold. So I think it has to be possible to make changes in the organisation of the KOPA that can meet this, because it's the small businesses that depend most on this working. Many out in small communities have public contracts as a main pillar, which was also pointed out by the case-rapporteur. Anyone who has been both shorter and longer in Norwegian business will have seen that this is how it works. It is therefore necessary to strike an appropriate balance between the needs of businesses and the need for society to control and monitor illegality and enforce sanctions. It should also be aware that the way in which we implement this is important for the development of supplier competence, on which the public is completely dependent. It must not be the case that we have legislation that prevents that development also in small businesses. Very good innovation jumps out of there. This innovation often also comes from the transparency of the grounds for refusal. It's theme number. two in this, that is, how to deal with the grounds for refusal. We are sceptical about the common grounds for refusals that are given at the same time as the award decision. The practice incorporated has been to have a different level of transparency. I believe that this weakens legal certainty – that is now the one thing – but it also weakens the ability you have to go in and look at your own competence and how to deal with future tendering procedures, so that companies can make a real contribution to making public procurement better, perhaps even more reasonable in the long term, when you are able to find the right price level and the right quality level. Therefore, we believe that the present system of individual duty of justification should be maintained upon request. Finally, this with municipal autonomy and the possibility of law enforcement: we do not think that should be restricted, and we are therefore going to oppose that proposal. I think it's the small businesses that are important here. It is to have a lowthreshold offer that is important and to have a pace of processes and decisions. The obligation of justification, transparency – the opportunities it creates for individual enterprises – have been seen as central, as well as the access of municipalities to law enforcement. That is the reason why we are in the comments we are in, and are in the proposals we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e420	These issues concern the issue of the implementation of the EU Enforcement Directive in Norwegian law. In particular, the Directive: focus on illegal direct purchases. Implementation of the Directive requires the enforcement body to have the right to know a contract without effect and to charge the contracting entity a fee. The introduction of the Directive raises a number of legal issues. Therefore, a public selection was set up to propose how the Directive could best be implemented in Norwegian law. One of the key issues discussed in the selection was the organisation of the enforcement of the directive. The plurality of the selection suggests that the competence to impose sanctions be added to the courts. At the same time, KOFA should lose its competence to charge a fee. As a result, KOPA will once again become a purely consultative body. This is a solution consistent with the Norwegian legal tradition, while KOPA can continue as a low-threshold offer. The alternative to this scheme would be to give KOFA a competence that would in practice make it a specialised court. There is a solution that is not usual in Norwegian case law. This is why the government is promoting proposals in line with the plurality of the public selection, and the majority of the committee supports the proposal, which imposes enforcement powers, or enforcement powers, on the courts. The proposal proposes that KOFA’s competence to charge a fee should be lost. This is a natural consequence of the law enforcement being added to the courts. If the KOFA is able to impose a fee and the courts then have to deal with the matter, we may conflict with the principle that it cannot be judged twice for the same situation, which is contrary to the European Commission on Human Rights. SV is pleased that we have chosen a solution that is in line with Norwegian case law, and that there has been a good division of labour between the courts, which has competence to implement sanctions, and KOFA, which is now becoming an advisory body and a low-threshold service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e435	The public sector purchases goods and services for nearly 400 billion. kr annually. It is then important that the public procurement legislation helps to ensure that these funds are used as efficiently as possible through cost-effective and societal procurement and that the public sector, through its purchases, helps to develop a competitive business. It is therefore important to have clear legislation and to ensure good enforcement of the legislation. However, good rules and a good enforcement system are not enough to make good purchases, which is also underlined in St.meld. No 36 for 2008-2009, Good procurement. The central party supports the proposal in Prop. 12 L for 2011 to 2012 that a court may cancel contracts entered into in breach of the law. Today, the KOFA has the possibility to impose a misappropriation fee for illegal direct purchases. Due to the new sanctioning system introduced by the Enforcement Directive, where the general rule is that contracts should be known without effect, the government considers that it will no longer be possible to maintain the KOFA’s right to impose a misappropriation fee. The centre part shares that perception. If KOFA is still to be able to impose a misappropriation fee, it could mean that a principal could be met with both a disqualification fee from KOFA and that the contract would become known without the influence of the courts, for one and the same reason. Therefore, the centre party supports the lifting of the KOFA’s right to impose a misappropriation fee, as a necessary consequence of the new sanctioning system. However, we are very concerned that KOFA should still have an advisory function. Under today's rules, the principal shall provide two grounds for the award of the contract, one which shall hold sufficient information on the chosen offer to enable suppliers to assess whether the contractor's choice is factual and justified, and then a more detailed justification for the request. The government is proposing to change the foundation obligation, so that the grantor is not imposed on one foundation, and the Center Party supports this. This justification shall be provided automatically, together with the contracting entity's notice of who is awarded the contract. In this way, the supplier will immediately have the full basis for assessing whether the procurement process has been properly conducted or whether there are grounds for complaint. However, the centre part will underline the importance that the one foundation then given should be good and opaque. This implies that the requirement for a foundation plays a very important role in the right to purchase and that an effective enforcement objective is to be achieved, it is necessary for suppliers to have an adequate basis for doing so. The centre party will stress the importance of not only getting to know who has won, but also getting a description of the winning offer’s properties and rewards in relation to each award criterion. The requirements of this one foundation will therefore be greater than those of today's automatic foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e454	The government sector purchases goods and services for nearly 400 billion. kr per year. There are huge sums, which make it very important that the legislation ensures that these billions are used as best as possible. This can be done, for example: through cost-effective and socially sound procurement, and the public sector’s contribution through its procurement to the development of a competitive business. Unfortunately, we see that, through the proposition, the government is now adding up a system that makes it difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to enforce their rights. Today, the KOFA is the Board of Appeal if a supplier wishes to appeal against a decision of a contracting entity. KOFA is a low-cost offer — often called a low-threshold offer — without the high risk that a case in the court would entail. In addition, KOFA has specialisation which provides an effective and good treatment of complaints that have to be received. That's why the Christian People's Party wants a strengthening of the Kova, not a weakening, as the government is now proposing. Today, the KOFA has the opportunity to impose an infringement fee. The government is now proposing that only the courts should have occasion to do so. There is a risk that there will be more illegal direct acquisitions if only the courts are able to impose an infringement fee. High costs and high risks make the threshold so high that small and medium-sized suppliers will not be able to bring a case before the Court. The Government therefore promotes a proposal that would weaken access to justice for small and medium-sized suppliers. In addition, with this proposal, the government removes the entire democratic power that has so far been in the system. According to today's legislation, almost anyone can send a complaint to KOFA about suspecting illegal direct acquisitions. In addition to being a democratic force, which gives everyone the opportunity to report any breaches of the rules, this possibility increases the likelihood of illegal direct acquisitions being revealed. When the government now eliminates this possibility, the risk of multiple illegal direct acquisitions increases. The government is honest in the proposition in these areas and expresses the following: ‘The Ministry is aware that a transition from today’s system of administrative infringement fees to a model in which all penalties must be imposed by the courts may result in fewer cases of illegal direct acquisitions being enforced.’ [[...]] They go on to say, ‘However, the Ministry considers that the emphasis to be placed on weighting must be primarily on the preventive effect.’ This is at best contradictory. The government is trying to justify a weakening of the preventative effect in terms of the preventive effect. Several cases lead to more clarifications and, consequently, to a greater risk of being taken if the legislation has been breached. Fewer cases, to which the government submits, lead to fewer clarifications and less risk of being taken if one has broken the legislation. As a result, the preventive effect will be weakened. The government also wants to weaken the obligation to state reasons. Until now, the contracting entity has provided an individual justification if a losing supplier has requested it. In this way, the supplier has been able to compare his offer with a winning one and thus assess the potential of a complaint. When the government will now remove the individual obligation to state reasons, they weaken the complainant potential of suppliers. The proposal we are discussing today will weaken legal certainty, preventative effect and the democratic aspect of today's system. The Christian People's Party will therefore oppose the proposal for a decision, and support the proposal of the minority, as set out in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e486	As many people here have been here, it buys in public for almost 400 billion. kr per year. It is important that we manage Community funds in the best possible way. Therefore, we need to ensure that we have effective acquisitions through good procedural rules. If these rules are violated, it is important that we have legislation in place to ensure effective enforcement. In the proposal that the Storting is dealing with today, the Government proposes new and, in part, tightened rules on the enforcement of public acquisitions. The legislative proposal implements the EU Enforcement Directive in Norwegian law. Firstly, it shall be easier for suppliers who have not entered into competition to secure their rights before a contract is concluded. This applies in particular to new rules on suspension: where a supplier complains about the contracting entity's decision to award the contract, the contracting entity must, in certain cases, wait until the contract has been processed. Secondly, the new rules must combat illegal direct acquisitions. These are contracts concluded in breach of the law without open competition. This is considered to be particularly serious infringements and the proposal requires the cancellation of such contracts in certain cases. Should the process have come to such an extent that cancelling the contract will have significant social consequences, the duration of the contract may instead be shortened, in addition to the imposition of an infringement fee on the contracting entity. The new penalties shall also apply in the case of other particularly serious infringements of the rules. Because the new sanctions are invasive, the government proposes to impose time limits for when an action that could lead to penalties has to be brought. I would like to stress that the new enforcement rules do not change the requirements of the procurement process itself. It is only where there is actually a complaint about an acquisition that these new rules apply. The Government proposes that the new sanctions be imposed by the courts, i.e. that it is the courts which shall be able to cancel a contract, shorten the duration of a contract and impose on the contracting entity an infringement fee. A supplier who wishes the contracting entity to conclude a contract to be suspended must also go to the courts. We propose this, because we believe that it is the courts that are best placed to carry out these tasks. In particular, the new penalty leading to the cancellation of a contract is invasive – not only for the contracting entity but also for the contracting entity’s co-contractor who must be involved in the case. These types of cases fall within the jurisdictional system, which has procedures to ensure legal certainty for the parties. This means that KOFA shall no longer be able to impose an infringement fee for illegal direct acquisitions. So KOFA is once again going to be a purely advisory body. This is not due to the dissatisfaction with how KOFA has worked, on the contrary, KOFA has worked well. However, the amendment is proposed for the purposes of the whole of the enforcement system. If the new tasks were to be transferred to KOFA, we had to make substantial changes to the organisation and procedure of KOPA. KOFA would be a court-like body, and the KOFA we know today would disappear. KOFA has acted as a conflict-free, easily accessible and relatively effective low-threshold service, and we should facilitate the continued existence of such a body. Finally, the government also proposes a change to the municipal law. We propose to introduce a derogation from the statutory audit under Section 59 of the Local Government Act on matters relating to compliance with the public procurement law. This proposal does not follow directly from the Enforcement Directive, but the Government believes that the enforcement of procurement law needs to be seen in the context of other enforcement options. There are several other bodies that control compliance with procurement law and therefore, in order to ensure that a consistent and comprehensive enforcement system is taken into account, we propose a derogation from access to law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e516	KOFA has so far dealt with more than 2000 complaints and has incorporated extensive experience and has built up high trust among public service providers and purchasers. Now this is proposed for transfer to the courts, and thus it will be up to the individual court and its experience in such cases, which may differ from the court to the court. Does the Council not see that it would be most appropriate to continue to allow KOFA – which has a lot of experience in this area – to retain this task and that KOFA also helps many small and medium-sized enterprises to see themselves more able to appeal than if it has to appear in a court of law? What does the Council of State see as the advantage of the fact that the courts take over the role of KOPA in this particular area, and does the Council of State consider that KOPA has done an unsatisfactory job? If not: Why change something that has worked very well for everyone – both for the buyer and the seller?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e525	KOFA has done a good job. However, the Enforcement Directive means that we need to introduce new sanctions that are intrusive for each supplier. That is why we believe that the justice system will be more appropriate to enforce those types of cases. KOFA will continue to exist and may provide advice to those who wish to receive it from them. If KOFA were to retain the power to impose an infringement fee, and at the same time we were to use the legal system to terminate a contract, we would be in a situation where a person could receive a double penalty. It would be very unfortunate, it would be a whole new case-law, and it would be contrary to general principles of human rights. So I believe that when we first introduce a more stringent sanctioning system, the sanctions must be on a body that is operational throughout the year. KOFA does not have meetings regularly enough to have that type of authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e530	What will the Council of State point to as the main benefit for SMEs in the new regime to which it is now assigned?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e535	I think it is quite clear that you may not get to know the contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e540	The representative Sande from the Central Party was up here talking in particular about the obligation to state reasons – that we should now provide only a common justification. As I understood his comments – without being correct – it was well that he was not entirely satisfied with the proposal as it was, but that perhaps you should get some extensions. Now, I suppose regulations should be given to this arrangement, as far as I can understand. Does the Council of State consider that the submission by Erling Sande on the obligation to state reasons covers what is contained in the proposition and the proposal of the Government, or does it have to be amended by the regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e547	I think Sande himself can answer for his post, but it's right, as the agent Fleet says, that the obligation to state reasons is regulated in a regulation. Today, there are two reasons why this can be done. If we are to put in place a mechanism for suspending contracts, the justification given must initially be so comprehensive that the person to deal with it actually receives a justification that says something about what to assess and how the person to issue the tender has assessed the individual tasks. So the rationale that we're given now is not going to be the same as the first obligation of justification we've had before. That justification must be somewhat more comprehensive than the first obligation to state reasons in the past, in order to actually use the justification to make the assessments within the standstill period proposed in the proposal. So there has to be something more justified and something different in the different purchases that are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e552	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e557	I just think it was okay to be able to take the word at the very end of this debate, because there is no doubt that there are different opinions about what the matter actually contains. But I want to underline a few things. The first is that KOFA's work is continued. The CODA is still to be maintained. The CODA shall still be an advisory body and shall be able to assess the cases in the CODA. So, one doesn't put it down – even if I think some people in his post here are going in the direction of it. Then I want to underline another thing: we get a stronger code. It is better to be a service provider against the public after this change — provided that public procurement is wrong. It does not come out in a way in the debate, I think, and it becomes a little unfair in relation to the emphasis on the importance of what is now being done. So as long as one gets more and more opportunities to punish cases where illegal public acquisitions have taken place, the question is, is it right then to develop a body on the side of the court to decide and impose relatively powerful assessments linked to individual enterprises and suppliers? I think it's quite natural that this is done by the court. It is quite natural – with as serious a consequence as a decision in this type of case can now have for some suppliers, it is absolutely necessary that this be done in the Court of Justice. I think that's under-communicated in the debate. I think it is important to clarify: KOFA is being continued. We get a stronger regulation, protect suppliers more than we have done up to now, and it is quite natural that when greater sanctions can be imposed where illegal acquisitions have taken place, it is actually the court that decides in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e568	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e582	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e591	As regards changes to the Holiday and Holiday Peace Act, the Committee is divided in its position, and I assume that the individual party will explain its position on this matter. Unfortunately, today's legislation does not lead to equality with the law. Today's exceptions to the law seem to distort competition and there is an unnecessary regulation of trade in goods. A revision of the law to open Sunday open shops will provide more flexible adaptations that will naturally vary with industry type, location, local conditions, etc. An opening for more flexible adaptations does not believe that in the Right there will be significant changes in the opening hours that are being practised in the trade in goods today. It is positive that the Progress Party has promoted such a proposal. There is a great commitment to this matter, and it is high time that a change to the law was made. It shows, not least, the derogation currently in force, the so-called Brustad-bua. It is an exception in today's legislation that has proved to benefit neither the consumer nor industry, as intended. The same applies also to sales outlets that essentially sell flowers, plants and other gardening items. An example from yesterday's VG shows how unfair today's laws are. So today you get purchased plants and garden furniture from Plantation on Sunday, but construction products for the terrace cannot be purchased. The police have investigated the matter of Maxbo on Skedsmo and have concluded that they have broken the law by selling garden goods on Sundays. The store Plantation next to it gets to sell the same goods without breaking the law. Maxbo has to pay $5 million. kr to the state treasury of the offence. It was L.A. Trade and Office that reported Maxbo. Ove Magnus Halkjær of the trade union says that he can understand that the police do not want to use resources on matters like this, but nevertheless believes that there is a consequence that the Stortinget has placed the legislation in the holiday legislation. Minister of Administration Rigmor Aasrud believes that the law is good for most people, and thus believes that today's system is working. That doesn't mean right. We believe it is high time to adapt the out-of-date legislation after the consumer's everyday life in 2012. We need legislation that takes account of both consumers and employees. Today's law has expired and has received a derogation that has given us Brustad-bua and garden centres that sell much more than garden goods. This is both difficult for consumers and distorting competition for employers. If you need groceries, you'll be allowed to shop in a long bar with cows, but not in a regular store – except when you're on a cabin, because that's where the usual store is kept open. In addition to the pointless fact that the police are going to spend very little of their resources on such matters, as consumers, we should ensure that there is equality of law. Unfortunately, it's not the law of the day. Whereas it is important to safeguard the rights of workers, while at the same time liberalising opening hours; Of course, the right considers that the government will follow the developments in the cooling water of this change and that the employees of the commercial industry will be met for their health, environment and safety needs within the general rules applicable in working conditions under the Working Environment Act. In the setting that we are dealing with today, the government parties argue that the opening time law cannot be liberalised, because the employees of the trade in goods should have the opportunity of free time that they can share with others. The same is true of the Aasrud State Council in its letter to the Committee. The right is concerned that employees need to be protected from increased pressure on Sundays, but why do the government parties not problem that employees can work today, for example, on Sundays, while employees at Maxbo have to be protected against the same? Or why do the government parties think it's okay that employees in a Brustad-bu can work on a Sunday – but not in a store wall-in-wall that is over 100 m2? The logic of this argument is difficult to understand, not least for consumers. It is difficult to see why government parties do not support fair legislation both for employees and for actors. I take this up with me the proposal on which the Right is with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e615	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e618	Norway's opening hours are among Europe's most liberal. People can trade for 144 of the week 168 hours. This gives a great deal of freedom, but there's no doubt that this also increases consumption. It is therefore not accidental that those who are most eager to do something about the opening hours are the economic operators, and that the Right is thus the main cause of the business. Many employees report increased labour pressure, and many consumers report increased purchasing pressure. The question is, shall we in this room stimulate more of that? Obviously we see this before Christmas every year. Many shops keep Sunday open – to the delight of many, but to the despair of others. Many employees report increased labour pressure after the law was repealed in 2003. This is why, for example: Trade and Office requested an evaluation of the effects following the repeal of the Opening Time Act in 2003. I have sympathy for such a claim. It's about what society we want, and what rights employees should have. People are entitled to free time, but people also need leisure time with others. Parents should have the opportunity to be free when their children are free. I'll tell you about a self-experienced example from last Sunday. We were going to have a babysitting day in our family for our daughter who is five years old. To our irritation, we discovered that we had forgotten to buy vanilla cream, which we were going to have on one of the cakes. That irritated us, and it could be fun for us in the acute situation to have an opportunity to go and buy vanilla cream. But the question I as a consumer, we as consumers, should ask us, is, Is it true that there should be people working on a Sunday just because I can't plan my purchases? Childbirth day was carried out without vanilla cream, but there was very great success anyway! The right-hand side speaks in this case of ‘freedom’ – but it is a freedom primarily for business. This is a good example of the fact that one person’s freedom can become another’s freedom. The right - from the pulpit and in the form of a note - has spoken out warmly about the rights of employees, including on Sundays. I would challenge the Right and the Advance Party: how have they thought this should be resolved? How should greater freedom be ensured for workers in the trade in goods by introducing more labour pressure by introducing stricter requirements for the presence while the children are free? I don't understand that, but I hope that the right-hand side will soon begin to give some answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e631	When I heard Arild Stokkan-Grande's posts, I also wanted to start with something I have experienced myself. Last week this committee was in the United States, and we arrived in a big city in the United States on a Sunday. Some of the members then took the opportunity to do some shopping – on a Sunday – because we didn't have the opportunity to do it any of the other days because of a busy program. But I'll leave it. So today it's 2012, and the world is a little different than it was in 2003, when we got this law. Much has happened, and we all know that we are now entering one of the busiest times in the case of Sunday open shops – or plant sales. The case rapporteur was interested in this with plant sites and other sales that have much of the same range. In our mailboxes, we are now being cleaned up by advertising new garden plants, spring plants, garden furniture, barbecue equipment – and I don't know what. The plantation and other plant sales are allowed to sell these goods on Sundays, Fridays, Easter Day and other holidays. Then the question is, what is the difference between buying plants, garden products and animal equipment – which you can buy from the plantation sometimes – and buying milk and bread, which we are not allowed to buy, because we need regulations on that? In addition, we see that there is a slippage in the range, and discrimination against Maxbo and Jernia that cannot have the opening hours of the plantation, for example. sheep ha. In practice, opening regulations disappeared in 2003, with the exception of public holidays and some days off. But there was a slight exception, that's if the stores were less than 100 m2. It was kind of okay. So the government's arguments are kind of completely wrong, because what they're talking about is that they're going to have a different day on Sunday. It's important that we then have it a little bit different, do a little bit different than what we're going to do the other six days. What's different today on Sunday is that the shops are 100 m2, while the other days are much larger. Those who have been around in these small shops – a store in a store, which is now popping up everywhere – see that it is quite urgent to get there. It could be tempting to ask government parties – who are so concerned with universal design – what they think about the discrimination this constitutes for those who are wheelchair users, who do not have the opportunity to enter these shops. Today, there are over 324 Sunday-open shops around the country, and there are going to be more because we live in a society where people work in turn, work shifts, family patterns change – and we politicians now have to manage to take it over us and try to understand that there is a desire for open shops also on Sundays. Then it is not useful there to give the opportunity, but still regulate according to the size of the store, as the government parties do. There's a lot of talk here about those who are going to work on Sundays. First of all, I want to make it clear that there is no coercion, people don't have to go shopping on Sundays. People are cordially welcome to walk in the woods, do quite different things, be with their family, if they want it – but have the opportunity to go out and trade on Sunday, if they want it. The Working Environment Act must be complied with and there must be working time regulations. The Progress Party has clearly stated this in the form of a comment, and we expect that to be taken care of. There are many people who work roundabouts, both in hospitals and other places, which means that you need to have tour arrangements to get this up, to get the crew in place. It is absolutely certain that one will be able to adapt to also in the daily food industry. So it's actually important to say that there are some students who think that the extra dollars they can get by being able to have extra jobs and work on Sundays are very welcome in an otherwise tight student box. Being able to have that possibility of a little extra work we think is very legitimate. That's why we don't think of it as a big problem, and the arguments that the government makes here fall essentially on its own unfairness. As I said, the arguments get wrong. It is okay for the Workers' Party to be able to shop goods when they are in cabins and other leisure places, but they should not be allowed to do it at home. The municipality has asked for a test order, and it is a pity that they cannot get to try that out, so that you can have Sunday open shops. Instead of being Europe's brake pad, Norwegian politicians should be at the forefront of liberalisation in these service areas. Sunday trade is going to be liberalized, but it can take some time, as it looks in this room today. But the Progress Party can promise that we will at least stand on this proposal further, and we're going to do what we can to make us equal to the law, so that we can have bigger shops – and not so that we allow Sunday open shops, but that they have to be on up to a certain number of square meters. With that, I would also like to include in the vote the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e660	The representative Solvency Horne then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e663	The matter we are now dealing with has been dealt with before, in the current period. If the proposal is promoted several times, it will not be better for that reason. I would first like to refer to the State Council's reply to the Committee when dealing with the matter, where the Council of State says the following: ‘The Act on Holidays shall protect general peace on Sundays and public holidays by, inter alia, setting limits to commercial activity on those days. This is, as I see it, still an important consideration. Limits of commercial activity on Sundays and holidays contribute to the preservation of those days as different from normal working days.» Here the Christian People's Party, the Council of State and the majority of the Committee are in complete agreement. The representative of the Advance Party indicates that the difference now is only that shops in a smaller variant are open; there are small shops that are open. No, it's actually not like that. There is a part that uses the opportunity that the law gives to have open shops of less than 100 m2 – it should be lacking only when the law opens up – but the fact is that most shops are closed on Sundays because of the law we have. That's why the law actually works according to purpose, it's different on Sundays and other days of the week. People can only choose even if they want to go on a tour or go to the store, says the representative from the Progress Party. Yes, then I will challenge the Progress Party to visit Citymarka in Trondheim on a Wednesday and a Sunday, to visit Flöen in Bergen on a Wednesday and a Sunday, to take a tour in Eastmarka in Oslo on a Wednesday and a Sunday, or a trip in popular tourist areas outside the representative's own town, in Stavanger, Rogaland. Is there a difference between everyday life and Sunday? Yes, there's actually a huge difference – on family life, on tourism, on the culture of our country – between everyday and weekend, precisely because it's a fundamental value in Norwegian society that we've been able to take care of. Then the holiday law and regulation of the opening time for the trade in goods are not the only, but one of the important building blocks in the culture we have to distinguish between everyday and Sundays. You can choose, says the Progress Party. But there are 370,000 people who are employed in the retail trade here in the country, and for whom this is of great practical importance – if the store where you work is open on Sunday, it is not that easy to say that you can choose whether to go on a trip or be at work that day. In fact, this is not how the work force works. Therefore, Trade and Office, which organises most in this sector, has clearly stated that they want us to take care of this distinction. Many of the 370,000 have families, this concerns a lot of people in Norwegian society. What this matter is, is that we simply have to make a political choice: do we want to put market considerations and commercial forces first, or do we take into account the peace of the holidays, which is part of our Christian cultural heritage and tradition, and the consideration of families first? For the Christian People's Party, that choice is very simple. Here the Progress Party shows that they stand for a completely different political thinking, they make a completely different value choice than the Christian People's Party does. The protection of families, the protection of a different day of rest, a different holiday, which gives time, which gives the opportunity to be together, has never been more important than today. I think that a lot of us adults like this are dealing with everyday life would have been happy if we had managed to spend a little bit less time at the store and a little bit more time with the kids who need us so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e687	In this case, I have to say that I feel like a proper center politician. When I sit and hear both wings discuss this matter, I have to say that I think this is one of the issues that makes politics a little indignant, because the rhetoric doesn't relate to the reality of politics at all, really not on any of the flies. If it was the workers' rights we put into focus, if that's what was the most important thing we did here, it's very strange that the workers' rights are extremely different if the store is less than 100 m2 or over 100 m2. Why is it very important to fight for workers' rights in large shops, while workers' rights in small shops are less valuable? I don't understand, it doesn't get the principle of being connected. The reason why workers in shops that sell gardening equipment are much less valuable than workers in shops that sell clothes, I do not understand either. There's something in the rhetoric here that's not related, making it seem like it's the greatest freedom reform that many of us have access to these stores. What we in the Left believe is that we should have given the municipalities full power when it comes to opening hours, even on public holidays. Then they had the localization and the local solutions that had been appropriated in each municipality. It is clear that in a municipality like Oslo, which is characterized by many people who work at very different times, but which is also characterized by people who are willing to work at very many different times, with great access to students and others who think it is nice to speculate on the income of sacred work, there is much greater transparency for such things – while for example. in the municipality in which I was born and raised, opening hours were not so important. If you were to bake and suddenly discovered that the cream was missing, it was just to call the shopkeeper, and then he went down to the store and picked up the cream you needed to make cake for the weekend. Then the opening time is a completely different problem. I would really like to have a Christian People's Party with me on my walk, which I had on Sunday. It's clear that when you go up to Ekeberg, as I did on Sunday, there's a lot more people there than it is on Wednesday. But when I go down and I'm going to shop food on my tiny little Joker, there's a lot more people there on Sunday than it is on Wednesday, because it's the only store in the area that's small enough to be allowed to be open. It has to be full on weekends, because it's a long queue, because it's the only place you get to do the Sunday dinner. I believe that we must get good municipal solutions. Today we are going to vote in favour of the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party, because we believe that there is room for what had been the Left solution, namely that we had made local adjustments that would fit the labour market in each place and the customer base in each place. I think the argument is back in the reality of the 1980s, which we do not see here today. Had it been so that there had been a ban on having shops open, the arguments had been much more real. But I don't understand why you're willing to fight hard for employees at shops over 100 m2, while employees at shops below 100 m2 are worth nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e714	That's pretty exactly eleven months since we discussed the corresponding case in this room. As a last resort, parts of the opposition want liberalisation, parts of the opposition want tightening, and we heard here the Left wish that we should actually leave it to the municipalities, while in the meantime we should remove all the restrictions. The Holiday Act requires permanent outlets selling goods to consumers to remain closed on Sundays. The background for this is multiple. First, Sunday should be a different day, different from the other days of the week. In a survey conducted by the Norwegian Customer Survey in April 2011, 63 pst were. by those who responded, agreed that it was okay. Norway is not a brake pad. We're not alone in having rules like that. Countries such as Denmark, Germany, France and England have forms of regulation of opening hours on Sundays. Secondly, many shops have long opening hours throughout the week. Since 2003, we have not had any adjustments to opening hours in everyday life. This reduces the need to act on Sundays. Thirdly, the consideration of employees is also important when discussing Sunday-closed shops. The rights of workers are governed by the Working Environment Act and, as a general rule, workers are not to work on Sunday unless there are particular reasons for doing so. In my view, workers in the trade in goods should not be subject to greater labour pressure on Sundays than is currently the case, including: by working the last three Sundays before Christmas. Although the general rule is that the outlets are to be closed on Sundays, the law provides for a number of exceptions for, among other things. outlets with limited sales area, outlets located in defined tourist areas and outlets selling mainly flowers, plants and gardening. These derogations have been granted in order to respond to practical needs. I believe that this means that we have an appropriate balance between having a day off and at the same time ensuring that consumers have access to the goods there are particular reasons to allow. Shops complying with the conditions of the exceptions may remain open on Sundays. The range of products in these shops may to some extent overlap the range of products in ordinary shops. These derogations must be considered in the light of the fact that they are intended to meet the main consumer needs on an otherwise day-free day. In order to meet practical needs, what I have mentioned is a number of exceptions to the obligation to keep closed on Sundays. The exemption for small grocery stores must be seen in the light of developments in the kiosk industry. In addition, in certain cases, the County State may derogate from the Law on Holidays. This applies both to typical tourist sites and in other specific cases. I believe that it is important to maintain a reasonable balance for the purpose of having a day off of action and taking into account the consumer's need to buy goods there are particular reasons to allow. In my view, today's provisions and their practice are well-practice for these considerations. In a judgment of Hålogaland Lawyers in November 2010, a retailer was sentenced to a fine of NOK 60000 and the withdrawal of NOK 200000 of the turnover from illicit Sunday trade. This should be a strong signal to the industry not to make the boundaries of legitimate Sunday trade, and I believe that both shopkeepers and workers must be aware of that. I would therefore like to take the initiative towards the employee organisations and the organisations that organise shopkeepers to discuss the developments we record in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e746	Let me first say that I have not seen any place that it is not allowed to promote matters again during a period here on Stortinget. Although this case was dealt with here at Stortinget on 14 April last year, the matter is equally topical, and it engages people strongly out there. We also see that in the media. The council argues that we need a day that is different from the other days of the week. The difference is that on Sunday the shops can be 100 m2, while they can be much larger in the other days. So, if I understand correctly, the Council of State believes that as long as the store is small enough, Sunday trade is perfectly okay. A problem that has arisen now is that if you are a wheelchair user, you do not have the opportunity to get into the small shops. For this government, which in very beautiful words speaks of an inclusive society and universal design, it is not in practice in the case of Sunday-open shops. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that the design of those shops can discriminate against wheelchair users?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e758	I assume that the shops that are open on Sundays meet the legal requirements for availability. It is fully possible to get a wheelchair into a shop of 100 m2. It has to do with how to place goods and how fully you do the store. It should not be impossible to get neither wheelchairs nor baby carriages into such a store if you make arrangements for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e766	Today, it does not seem that the Sunday-open shops have problems getting people to work. It looks like many students are in line and are happy to have the opportunity to work that day of the week they are not in school. The question I would like to put to the Council of State is linked to the rights of employees. Why is it that employees' rights are less valuable? Why is it that employees' rights to the Plantation are less valuable than employees' rights to Maxbo? Can the Council of State explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e773	I agree that it is important that we have good rules that protect employees from unnecessary Sunday work. It is also included in the provisions of the Working Environment Act. Then the Holiday Act has granted exemptions for some businesses to have been open on Sunday, among others. horticulture, the ones that sell plants. It is historically conditional, partly because of the nature of the activity. I'm not an expert on gardening, but I understand that plants include: shall be watered and cared for, and that is one of the reasons why there is a need for employees to be employed throughout the year in that type of establishment. Therefore, it has been possible to keep open on Sunday for those who sell plants, in line with some other businesses that need to be open on Sunday.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e778	I would like to begin by thanking the Council of State for a good report, which stated the matter as I believe it should be presented, with the appropriate balance that the Council of State spoke about. My question is about what many people have been concerned about, and we are also asked a lot of questions about, namely that the garden centres are taking this exception well in law when it comes to being able to sell flowers, and that you keep open large centres selling goods that go far beyond what is the intention of the law, that is to sell flowers and those that are directly linked to flowers and plants, which other businesses obviously feel unfair. Does the Council of State see any possibility of action to reduce the possibility of such grey zones that there is an unfortunate distortion of competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e785	Borders are constantly demanding, and as I said in my post, I would therefore like to have a discussion with the industry and the employee organisations related to the development we have seen recently. Then it is that in the preparatory work of the law presented in 2002-2003 and in a letter sent to Trade and Office in 2001 by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs at that time, there is some indication of the limitations: a significant part of the turnover is to be related to plants, flowers and gardening. A significant part is defined as more than 50 pst. I think it's a good guide, and I hope that those who have been open on Sunday relate to the rules that are given. I also believe that the fines given have helped to prevent and prevent more people from exploiting and eroding the law, which is a good balance between different considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e792	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e797	You know you live in a country governed by the red-greens, when the maximum permitted speed on a motorway is 100 km/h. You know that you live in a country governed by the red-greens, when beer sales close before the store, rapists get lower penalties than those who cheat on the tax, you have to pay taxes on food you eat if you work voluntarily at a festival, the purchase of a new car is twice as expensive as in neighboring countries, gambling is forbidden, but not Norwegian Typing, and it is allowed to sell sex, but not buy. One of the more special constructions that also comes from the red-green, that's this 100 m2 store, which is also called Brustad-bua. Shops that hold large, bright and airy premises on weekdays have to move on Sundays to this narrow cottage of less than 100 m2, where customers are almost stacked in height to get space. Today, no one seriously believes that it would be harmful for consumers to shop in as large shops on Sundays as otherwise this week. You can trade reefs, spades, lawn mowers, flowers, gasoline, and oil on Sundays, but not milk and bread. Today’s legislation provides many unfair results – in other words, here there is a need for clean-up and decoration. In Akershus we have good examples, as the representative from the Right came along. Maxbo and the Plantation are 100 meters apart. The plantation and Maxbo sell the same articles. The plantation has a few more – they also have Christmas items, Christmas decorations and Christmas flowers. But this is also distorting competition for those who are engaged in the industry. I don't see why it's okay for the Christian People's Party, which argues for the holiday peace, that those who work at the Plantation, 7-Eleven, Deli de Luca, gas stations and 100 m2 shops, can work on Sundays, but not those who work at Maxbo or a 101 m2 store. They must be protected in the light of the holiday peace and the work environment law. The logic of the argument of the majority in this committee is that legislation should be tightened up and not become what it is, but we do not see anything at all. Where appropriate, the size must look at the revision of legislation in a fair direction. The law should be equal both for employees and for actors. Brustad-bua is, of course, not a major decisive issue for Norwegian society, but it is a good example of overly liberalised politicians with the advantage of being able to stay away. The argument to protect the employee's free time is savoury. There are many, for example: students, who like to work at the store on weekends.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e822	The description of the red-green society, as the representative Ib Thomsen put it, speaks for itself. I'm just waiting for what solutions he has on the same issues. I think it's going to be tough and running – that's what the attitude is in this case. You want a society where nothing has to be regulated. It is a good thing, but it is also the great difference between the social-democratic and the red-green government and the policy of the Progress Party. In terms of equality for the law, as the Right Party and the Advance Party say, and then the Left Party says, there's a reason to ask, for whom? It is yes to the trading position and a clear refusal to care for the well-being of workers. I'm recording that you're hoarding it from these parties, but it's actually serious. We take workers' rights seriously. I also record that the Left, Right and Advance Party, through its argument, want a 24-hour society, where there is no difference between Sundays and public holidays. The question we should ask is, Will we? I think what the representative, Håbreek, raised is certainly part of such a discussion in such a debate. What kind of social development do we want? Should there not be a difference between Sundays and holidays and weekdays? I think that's what I belong to in such a debate. For me, it is important that this debate also discuss this kind of development. It's just about social development. I record that the representative, Trine Skei Grande, argues that the policy is 'in jeopardy' when dealing with these kinds of questions. I don't understand that you can even ask such a question in relation to discussing social development, how to protect employees' rights and also in relation to how you want to govern and respect the holidays and Sundays. I think these are important themes. I think it's about ideology, it's about social development, at least it's about a direction that definitely belongs to politics. That debate I want to be in, and that is why I think the position we have, and the position we have on this matter, is quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e833	First, the representative Horne had a visit to the Committee's trip to the United States. She clearly felt that a comparison should be made between the United States and Norway in this area. I would like to say that there is actually a big difference between American malls and Norwegian shops, and the shopping mall in Los Angeles to which it was referred was less than 100 km2, just so it was said. But it also illustrates that the matter does not concern whether it is prohibited or not to act on Sundays. It's actually about finding the balance that the Council of State talked about, which makes us get a social development that we want, and then it shows to the extent that we adapt to the framework conditions we have at all times. But I took the floor first and foremost to comment on the comments of the Left and the representative, Ms. Skei Grande. She showed that in Overhalla, where she comes from, it was such that you could only call the merchant. In the representative Skei Grande's childhood it was probably like that, but in 2012 I am a little more uncertain about whether the merchant in Overhalla, or merchants of other places around the country, will react in the same way if you call on Sunday and ask. But the left will delegate this question to the municipalities. The representative Skei Grande asks rhetorically whether the workers are worth less if they work in a store less than 100 m2. That of course is not what this case is about. No one wants to shut the Norwegian society and all its functions down on a Sunday – no one is calling for it. But it's just about – as we talked about – the appropriate balance between needs that we have, but not least the desire to maintain the holiday peace as a long tradition. Finding the appropriate balance sheet is exactly what's a good center policy. The Christian People's Party has taken up the slippage we've seen in the garden centres, and it's addressed in the matter, if you're worried about it. Finally, I think the representative Ib Thomsen illustrates this matter quite well when, in the same breath that he talks about Sunday open shops, he talks about that we must be allowed to drive faster on the highway. Maybe that's what it's really about: a society where we're all going to be able to drive faster, jump faster, and maybe it's not random either that the Progress Party is the party that goes the farthest here. It's the party that's gone the longest to talk about night-open kindergartens, because we might need that when the shops and everything are going to be open all week. Maybe the kindergartens should also be open on Sunday. There is another social development that the Progress Party is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e855	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e869	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e878	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers and the Christian People's Party for having raised an important debate on an important topic that is not given enough attention in the debate as usual. We all know about the cliché about the child who doesn't eat his food, and a parent says, "Think about the children in Africa." That equation is banal, and a lack of a child, including myself when I was a kid, took a lot of time to think about how to send food in the mail without it getting bad before it came to the children in Africa. But there is, of course, a serious problem behind it. There is today more than enough food for everyone on the globe, but yet many millions of people are starving. It has many reasons. Misrule is one of them, and it's dry, but also market mechanisms. We, who are the ones with the most purchasing power in the world, are also clearly throwing the most food because we can afford it, it doesn't feel like a big loss to us, and we have habits, patterns, and a everyday life that makes us throw a lot of food. We also have an industry that should be able to be criticized for profiling freshness in a way that makes us probably also throw more food than is necessary. Then large natural resources are lost. Climate change is very unfortunate. Resources are used poorly. Throwing a lot of food in Norway is part of a bigger global problem. Every year, about 320,000 tonnes of food are thrown into Norway that is fully edible. It's very large quantities. In fact, it corresponds to a quarter of all food purchased by consumers in Norway. It's about 70 kg of food per person in this country. It is not only a material, distributional and environmental problem, it is also unethical. This debate has an important ethical dimension. Then fresh food is super, and I'm happy in fresh food myself. However, as the Committee also agrees in the form of a comment, it may be that we overprofile freshness and thus confuse consumers unnecessarily and give the impression that foods that are completely edible are not. We need to look at that more closely. It is therefore gratifying that both a Joint Committee and the Ministry of the Environment agree on the need for an effort to combat unnecessary food waste. On behalf of the government parties, I would like to inform you that we are responding to the notified notification of waste, where the government will review both the status of food waste in Norway today and the need for new instruments to reduce the amount of food waste. There are four proposals from the opposition that I believe it will be promoted on its own. The Committee recommends that the matter be annexed to the minutes. That doesn't mean that the last word has been said, because this is an important matter in the government's waste notification. I think it's great that the Christian People's Party has used the opportunity to promote this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e891	The proposers and an overall committee very clearly point out the huge quantities of good food that are thrown to land here and elsewhere in the rich part of the world. It's almost to be seen as an attack on all the millions on the globe that lack food every day. Food waste is one of the types of waste that has increased sharply in our country in the last 20 years. According to the Central Statistical Office, 1.7 million tonnes of wet organic waste were produced in Norway in 2007, a growth of 63 pst. since 1995. Preliminary figures for 2008 and 2009 suggest that growth has stagnated, but only slightly. The worst of this is all the good food that is thrown away, and Norwegian households are throwing a quarter of the food that they buy, as the case-in-law also said. This is a wealth phenomenon, but it also has another side, and we have to do something about it. The climate emissions related to the production and distribution of discards are estimated to be approximately. 535000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, which corresponds to annual emissions from approx. 160 000 cars. I have registered, through my work in the Nordic Council, that this is something that also occupies the other countries in the Nordic region, and that our neighbouring countries are also concerned about this. Former member of the Danish Folketing Social Democrats Ole Vagn Christensen has addressed this at Nordic level for the longest time. His vision is that the Nordic countries need to go ahead in order to reduce all unnecessary waste of good food. Through cooperation, the Nordic region can develop new strategies to prevent the spillage of good food, with the huge benefits that this will bring, both for food supply and for the environment. All Nordic countries can provide good and comprehensive evidence of this for each country. I feel that here we have a big task to tackle, both locally, nationally and globally. Social Democrat Ole Vagn Christensen says it so strongly that food and food games must be viewed as part of the Nordic environmental and climate strategy. I am pleased that Ole Vagn Christensen's great commitment in this area has resulted in a proposal from the Social Democratic Group in the Nordic Council that aims to combat food games in the Nordic region. I hope that this will be widely accepted both nationally and internationally. I am also pleased that our government has addressed the problem, and I look forward to further progress in this work when the notified waste notification comes to debate. I think it is good that all the parties on Stortinget have a great commitment to this matter, and I look forward to the further work on this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e920	Norway is no exception in Western countries when it comes to the throwing of food. That's why it's an important matter that's being drawn up by the Christian People's Party today. Every year, what has been mentioned here before will be poured over 300,000 tonnes of food, 70 kg of food per person, which could have our food. Twenty-five pst. of the food that consumers buy in the store goes straight to the waste. We all have to be able to do that only if it's too much. Moral and ethical, too, is a challenge that overweight is a growing problem, as well as throwing such amounts of food. Fortunately, we see that business takes responsibility through its food waste project. So forMat is the business community's investment to reduce the amount of food thrown into Norway. We've all listened to people who study, who actually go in the garbage exchange to the grocery store and pick up and live well on food that the grocery store has got to throw, because the date no longer makes him sellable. The NHO, the grocery trade and the food industry have decided on their own initiative to reduce food waste by 25 pst. before 2015. This is one of the most ambitious and preventive food waste projects in Europe. This project should have all possible honors for them. It's a fact that we as consumers are throwing full food, which also affects the private economy. Product marked ‘best before’, which is completely elongated after expiry of the date, is understood as ‘expired on date’ and is the main cause of discarding the product. Example of this is escape and yoghurt. On the other hand, the reason why food is thrown in Norway is food security. Food and drink can be sources of disease and health damage in humans. It is therefore important to ensure the hygienic quality of the food and to prevent the production and sale of harmful food. Still, it's clear that we're throwing too much good food, and this is also a dilemma attached to the expected population growth, which will make food a bigger buttonage factor in the future. The date marking has a significant impact on food throwing in Norway, and there is broad agreement on the need for a thorough review of the current food labelling system. In such a review, one must also look at how to provide better information to consumers about the meaning of the different dates, and how to understand them. The knowledge of the date tagging system among consumers is crucial to achieve the goal of a strong reduction in the throwing of fully usable food. Therefore, the commitment of industry, ForMat, should be followed up with national objectives and measures to achieve the objective of a significant reduction in the throwing of fully-eating food. I take this up with me the proposals the Progress Party has with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e946	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e949	First, let me thank the proposers very much, who raise an important issue. As the rapporteur and other speakers before me have been involved, this matter concerns both the environment, ethics and resource use. But I would also like to highlight something that has not been mentioned until now, that it is about attitudes. It's about each of us, and attitudes are something that can't be adopted. However, it is important that we, as politicians, send a signal to all consumers out there that we have a clear goal of reducing the spillage of food that could have been eaten. Then we can't help but notice that some food will always be thrown away, even if we have to have a goal that significantly smaller food will be thrown away. Then it's important that the food that has to be thrown is going to produce e.g. biogas. In Oslo, there is a sorting of food waste that causes the food waste that households discard to become a resource and to be transformed into fuel. Then the case rapporteur was also concerned that it seems particularly in a global perspective that we are throwing so much food into the rich part of the world, while many are starving in poor countries. I fully agree with that. The main problem, I believe, is that the poor countries of the world must not take part in the globalisation that has contributed to the positive development that we have had in recent decades. In the rich part of the world, we have an agricultural policy that contributes to overproduction of food, and the overproduction is then dumped on the world market and contributes to undermining the production of food that poor countries could have had. It is a double challenge for poor countries, on the one hand, not to be able to build their own agricultural production in an area where they could be competitive on the international market. They then miss out on important export incomes, which in turn could have contributed to positive development in their countries. On the other hand, this also makes them unable to produce enough to feed their own people. This means that in this perspective, the unethical is the agricultural policy of the rich countries, which contributes to overproduction, to the throwing of food, and to undermining the ability and initiative of poor countries to improve their own food production. Then it is that Norway's production in general does not constitute the big difference, and it may be more motivated by district policy. But we hope that the butterberg that market regulator and butter producer TINE have withdrawn from the market recently, namely the butterberg that was imported when TINE was not able to produce itself, does not end up in the waste dump, but that it will be sent back and useful to someone. It seems pointless that it should not be possible to sell the imported butter but simply to dispose of it. The opposition has made a number of proposals that we hope the government will consider, not least in relation to the waste notification on the stairs. I shall therefore refer to proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e966	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e969	The representative proposal raises an important issue. The proponents are to have all the credit for addressing this issue, that more than 300,000 tonnes of full-eating food go to play in our country, and this happens at the same time as more than a billion people go to bed every night – older people, young people, women, men and parents, who don't experience being able to feed their kids the most basic thing. This is an ethical dilemma, and it's morally difficult. I will not go into the background of the scourge in the world – there is no time and space for this debate – but the case-speaker was in the middle of the background. I'll try to focus on what we can do, for something we can do to reduce the waste of food. I think the representative Astrup was interested in something of the essential as he talked about knowledge and attitudes, because it's the grips and knowledge of each of us that determine how we treat these foods. The sphere is an important venue for communicating knowledge about both the quality of food and how it develops, but also, for example, about the labelling arrangements we have, such as ‘best before’ and ‘last day of consumption’. I myself think of home-school teacher Anne Lise Løvold at Davik who taught us this simple thing that an egg can be dropped into a glass of water, and float it up, it will be a bad egg, but if you search it down, it can most likely last. If this doctor had caused the use of eggs by the North, we might have saved a good portion of the 850 tons of full-eating eggs that we throw every year. That's completely open stuff we can do. Our Lord has equipped us with up to several senses that allow us to assess the quality of food – sight, smell, taste, even the ability to know, for example. fruit and assess its quality. But many of us just use the perception, and he only uses us to look at the marking date. Spreading knowledge both in school and in society, or else in this area, I think, is important. It is also the case that the ForMat project, which is a collaboration between the public and the business community, but which primarily has business on its hands, does a lot of good work in the specific areas that the proposers here also demand. We have to be involved and contribute to that project. It's not a goal that we're going to have parallel projects for the good work that's going on, but instead we're going to be supporting it. It has been shown that the coming waste notification will also be an opportunity to discuss these kinds of issues further. I found it a paradox that the representative Nikolai Astrup well referred to overproduction of food and export subsidiaries – and perhaps spent the most time on it in his post. Yes, in that case, there is a criticism, first and foremost, of the EU that the representative of Astrup shows such an enthusiasm for in this pulpit. No – or at least few – food producers have such overproduction as the EU with the type of oversubsidisation that agriculture has in relation to exports, where a dumped food enters poor countries’ markets. I totally agree with Astrup that it should not happen, but to connect it directly to the starving people around the world, where many live in countries that export food out of the country they live in, becomes too much comparison. It's an exciting debate that we like to be able to repeat at another time. Once again, commend the proposer for taking up and focusing on this matter. When we vote as we do today, it is precisely in view of the project that is going on, which is doing a lot of good in this area, and which we are prepared to be with and strengthen further – and the forthcoming waste notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e986	Sofieprisner, Stuart, once again contributed in 2011 to opening my eyes for what he calls a global food scandal. Using powerful instruments and harsh arguments, he has managed to put food throws on the agenda in Norway by means of the Sofie Prize. I'm glad. Throwing food is not a private matter. The consequences of throwing food are not just economic. Nor will we get anywhere without doing anything with the big drivers behind the cooking, which is not primarily the housewives – or maybe we should say the housewives – in the thousands of homes, but it's the food industry. Here are some hard facts about the global food scandal: A billion people suffering from severe malnutrition could be saturated by less than a third of the food thrown into the United States and Europe. Water used to grow food, which we throw, would be enough to meet the need for 200 liters of water a day for nine billion people. Half of all food produced is thrown on the road from the place of production until it reaches the food table. 10 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions in the rich part of the world stem from the cultivation of food that we will never eat. Norway is no exception. Every year we throw over 320,000 tons of edible food in Norway, or every four bags. In Norway, the business community itself has made a very profitable start to its own project – the ForMat project. It has been launched by the NHO, the food trade and the food industry. They have decided on their own initiative to reduce food waste by 25 pst. by 2015. This is the most ambitious food waste prevention project in Europe. ForMat has conducted a number of surveys on food waste arising in Norway. They have found the following: Fresh pastries, fresh fruit and fresh vegetables are the products that are mostly thrown off, both at the producer, at the store and in the thousands of homes. The main visible reason for throwing food is that it has expired because, as consumers, we do not know the difference between ‘best before’ and ‘last use date’. This is what the statistics tell us. The joy is that knowledge helps, and that the dissemination of knowledge is a lot of the key to solving this problem. It is therefore exciting that both the representative Astrup and the representative Sande are concerned with attitudes and knowledge. ForMat has also understood this. They have established a website – matvett.no – as among others. has rich recipes. They've made a YouTube video with Petter Schjerven who makes food. A cookbook has recently come about this, and own apps on smartphones. So here's the future with us. I think that the food can quickly become the new food trend. But in the proposal we are dealing with today, we want to have a national target of reducing food waste by 25 pst. by 2015, as the ForMat project has. We ask the government to take action in line with this, and we also ask the government to carry out a review of the food labelling system with the aim of preventing unnecessary spillage of food that is completely edible. Maybe the egg sample of the representative Sande has to go to the thousand homes – I don't know. The government will have to assess that. Finally, support and information measures are also requested, as well as active international work for joint measures for the reduction of food waste. I am very pleased that an entire committee has been able to gather on the main parts of the comments on this matter, and that the whole opposition is standing united behind the proposals. I take this as a sign that the opposition and position agree to address the problem, but that we are working at a slightly different pace – that is the way it is in position and in opposition. However, I have great expectations that the government will deliver concrete policies in the notified waste notification, and, as the rapporteur said, the last words have not been said in this matter. I take that as a good message here from the Parliament's pulpit. Because in a world where a billion people suffer from food shortages and malnutrition every day, we can't keep throwing every fourth shopping bag of food in the garbage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1030	Let me start -- like so many others -- by giving honey to Line Henriette Hemdal for bringing up this topic. It is a difficult topic both in Norway and globally. Quite simply, the world should double food production by 2050 to catch up with the two billion people who are not yet born, but, as we know, will be born. The one billion who live in extreme, cruel poverty, but in addition to that, several billion people who in themselves have enough food, but who live on a very one-sided diet, for example. those who eat almost only rice, and who want a much more versatile diet. The sum of this requires a dramatic increase in agricultural production, agricultural productivity, and new areas need to be introduced. But a very good place to start is to reduce the loss, because when one third of the food that is produced is thrown, a significant reduction in this will have major, positive consequences. There are basically two reasons why food is thrown into the world. In poor countries, it is very often due to poor storage conditions and poor food management systems, which causes food to rot or be eaten by insects, rats, or whatever it may be. In the rich part of the world, it's mainly because you produce food that you're throwing because you don't think it has high quality, it's out of date in some system, or for other reasons. So we have to tackle all of this. I agree with those who say it's a good place to start with personal morality, because we don't get to know that it's also a theme -- it can't solve all the problems, but it's a good starting point. I can look at my own family – my grandmother couldn't afford to throw food and therefore never did it. My mother may have been able to afford to throw food, but she was so impressed with the attitude that you don't do this, that she thought of it as something absolutely unimaginable – only in extreme cases. I have a lot more liberal relationship with that, I have to admit, and my kids tend not to view this as a problem at all. So it is clear that there has been a change in attitudes as a result of wealth trends in Norway. Getting back a little more of the respect and reverence for the food will be a good thing. Secondly, I believe that we need to invest in international initiatives, and that is now under development. The UN Food Organisation is working on such initiatives, and Norway is an important driver towards the Rio Conference to see if it can be an arena to put the huge amount of food thrown into the world on the agenda. Thirdly, we need to look at the national measures that can be taken by the state, but in interaction with the economic operators. I believe that the most effective measures can be implemented by the industry itself. In Norway, we throw over 300,000 tonnes of food each year. So it's an average of 50 kilograms of food per man. If we can get it substantially down, it'll be a big step forward. There have been many reasons for reducing caste in the debate. The need for food is one point, greenhouse gas emissions are another. The huge water resources used are a third point. It is used, for example: 15000 litres of water to produce 1 kg of beef. So when you throw half a kilogram of beef, it equals 7500 liters of water – water that's wasted. All in all, to the food that is thrown, to the cultivation of it, there is water that meets the water demand of 500 million people. With regard to action in Norway, the most promising is that of industry itself through the ForMat programme. This has contributed to the establishment of the web site matvet.no, and a number of information material and other measures. I think we're going to admit that there's not going to be any easy process, because there's a lot of powerful driving forces in society that contribute in a crazy direction here, but taking hold of it and looking at all the brand schemes, the 'best before' system that can replace the 'last day of consumption', gives at all a much bigger leeway to accept food even if it's passed some date. Work is being done on a major waste notification, with which Stortinget is well known. Under the EU Waste Framework Directive, the EU and EEA countries are required to establish waste prevention programmes, and measures to prevent food waste will be an important part of the waste landfill notification. Finally, let me mention that in some countries there are established food centres that distribute surplus food from producers and shops to NPISHs, which in turn supply food to people who need it. So such food centres are found in a lot of other countries. In Norway, several aid organisations, the food industry and food authorities are now working together to look at the possibilities of establishing a similar food centre in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1054	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1057	The councils were in on this with food that it is quite possible to eat, but where the "best before" time is out. But we feel that the Food Authority is controlling, and that through their activity, they are making sure that this issue is not up to date. Food that could have been given away to worthy needy ones – to use this kind of manipulation – is simply thrown away because our control authorities are willing to interpret it so that it has to go to waste rather than be given to those who really need it. Does the Council of State think this is a good way to manage good food?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1064	One must assume that the Food Authority is set up, among other things: to protect consumers – and that is basically a good and right thing, I am absolutely sure that we agree – from food that can be bad, that can cause health damage, that can have negative environmental effects, etc. Yes, I think it makes sense to have a dialogue with the Food Authority to look at all these labelling systems to find something that is better adapted – that we keep the protection of consumers that is crucial, but have systems that make food that is really not bad eaten.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1069	The Council of State has been very positive about the draft representative, that's good. Through his comments and answers to the previous questions, he has in particular been concerned with several of the aspects that the minority addresses in his four proposals. The question is, why is it not possible for an aggregate increase to be behind the proposals that have been put forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1074	The government parties are positive about all the actions that are in the opposition’s proposals – subject to something on the move I forget – they point in the right direction. However, I am somewhat skeptical about declaring numbers in this area before we are reasonably sure that we can achieve such numbers. Establishing goals that are not achieved does not contribute to increased confidence in the Storting and to their implementation, but the direction must be very clear. Finally, what the state can do here is limited. That is what business and business themselves do in combination with consumers' willingness to change their behaviour, which will give us results. There is a combination of country, business and general attitudes, which were also addressed by Astrup. I think we're going to be a little bit careful about declaring numerical measures before we know that we can reasonably achieve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1081	Thank you to the Council of State for the pleasant mention of our proposal. Governments had three posts — attitudes, international and national — and he had a nice mention of ForMat, which is the business initiative here. I share the points of the Council of State, that this is not an easy job, but a necessary job. In his letter to the Committee, the Council of State says that the government will come back to the matter when they deal with the waste notification, and he said in his reply to Astrup now that it is the direction that is important, that it must be clear, and that it might be more important than target numbers. My question to the Council of State is this in relation to the work being done in the EU, because the EU is now working on setting targets. Will the waste notification presented by the government to the Storting during the autumn contain the current discussion in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1090	Yes, the discussion in progress in the EU must be reflected in the waste notification. This is an area where we can achieve a good deal nationally, but to the seventh and last, it's part of a larger whole, where we'll achieve more together with others. The EU has taken several good initiatives. They have an initiative on resource efficiency, which goes right into this: we don't always need to use more of things, we can use things more efficiently and get more out of less. This is one of the most important initiatives that Environment Commissioner Potocnik has taken, and to which we are trying to connect closely, possibly. However, a European waste policy is also, of course, something that needs to be mentioned in a report on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1097	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1102	In the NOU 2012:2, the European Investigation, it was noted that there is a lack of knowledge about the EU in Norway. The representative Erling Sande just showed that this is the case. He drew up a series of myths about the EU's agricultural policy, which cannot be left unanswered. It is true that the EU in its time had significant overproduction of agricultural products. It's true that this was dumped on the world market. It is true that this contributed to undermining the production of agricultural products in poor countries. But that was right in the 1980s. Since then, through a series of reforms, the EU has helped to change its agricultural policy so that they now support much more the maintenance of cultural landscapes rather than the support of production. This should also have been noticed by the representative Erling Sande. He also says that there is a contrast between exporting food from poor countries and helping to maintain the production of food to its own population. I would say that the representative is wrong. We have seen a number of examples of those countries in the poor part of the world that are able to renew and improve their production of agricultural products, and are also those countries where there is no hunger in the population, precisely because they have an efficient agriculture, which helps them both to export food and to manage to feed their own populations. We know that mismanagement and corruption in a good number of countries contribute to undermining the potential of many countries. Zimbabwe is a very good example of this, a country that in its time was Africa's grain chamber, but now is a country that is totally dependent on imports of food to feed its own population. When Zimbabwe was the major producer of agricultural produce in Africa, there was no hunger in their own country, while having substantial exports, which contributed great incomes to society there. I think the representative Sande needs to update a little, both on what the EU is doing and on international agricultural policy. It is not the case that the EU now has wine lakes and butterbergs. It is TINE who is now sitting on a large mountain of foreign butter, which I hope does not end up in garbage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1115	My goal in commenting on Mr Astrup's first post was not to deny that positive things have happened in the EU since the 1980s – keep us! But it was only to be lacking, with the impact of EU policies in the 1980s, on many of the world's poor countries. The reason I took the floor was this tendency to push the world's starving ahead of itself in an ideological goal of free trade in food, where there is a balance between production and demand, and where demand comes not from the world's population but from the part of the world's population that can afford, that has the money to buy this food. It is obvious that many poor countries have a high potential to improve their output of agricultural produce. I've never said anything else. The centre party wants to contribute to this. We are among those who have highlighted and managed not only a harsh aid policy in general but also a focus on agricultural aid. By providing funds and knowledge, we can support and secure the production of agricultural produce in many poor countries and help to increase it. One does not escape the fact that the vast majority of starving people in the world live in countries that export food. At least it's worth staying by.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1126	It's been a nice debate. It tracks a little bit at the end, but I think we should allow it, because things here are related. In the light of the latest exchange of words between representatives of Astrup and Sande, it may be worth recalling that organisations for poor farmers in developing countries do not at all regard the Norwegian agricultural model of customs protection and of regulated agriculture as a problem or as an enemy, but on the contrary as an example. This is important, for example: remembering that customs protection and export subsidies are two different things. Export subsidies are an intervention in the ability of other countries to be self-sufficient in food, resulting in distorted prices of important food products. Customs protection helps to increase the level of self-sufficiency in a country. It should be a goal, and it is desirable. It is also important to remember that poor farmers in developing countries do not make a level playing field with large agricultural exporters from the West. For example, there are very many of these farmers and food producers who only produce for themselves and for the local market, and an economy where more non-resident agricultural products enter their markets is by no means an advantage to them. It is not such that these farmers can compete with large agricultural producers. It is also illustrated by the fact that although we do not have customs barriers on agricultural products from the 50 poorest countries, there is very little of the food we buy in Norway and eat in Norway, which is from these countries. Bill Clinton, former president of the United States, has previously regretted having been involved in the policy of the 1990s, where the World Bank and the IMF pushed through structural adjustment programmes that led to the loss of agriculture in many poor countries. A particularly sad example of that policy is Haiti, where one of the contributing causes of the great urban poverty and much more, I have to add, is that very many farmers have moved into the urban areas because the international agricultural policy has led to them no longer being able to operate the small-scale agricultural production they used to do. So the picture is much more nuanced than the criticism of Norwegian agricultural policy and the red-green ones that the representative Astrup presented in this debate, I would say.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1140	The representative, Nikolai Astrup, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is therefore given the floor in this debate to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1143	To the representative Serigstad Valen: I have not criticised Norwegian agricultural policy. I've just pointed out that TINE has a butterberg, which I hope they won't throw. As far as Bill Clinton is concerned, he should be sorry, but he should regret the policy of subsidies in the United States, which is one of the main problems facing the world's poor country. When the representative Serigstad Valen says that export subsidies are bad, while customs protection is good, it has to be nuanced. Norwegian export subsidies are going to subsidize Jarlsberg, which is sold in England and the United States, not in poor countries in the world, so it doesn't matter very much to them. On the other hand, our customs protection helps keep poor producers out of Western markets. It's a problem. Norway is a small country, so it doesn't matter much on a global scale, but the fact that the rich part of the world keeps up with customs protection and customs walls and protectionism, which helps poor countries that have the ability to sell do not get it done, is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1152	The next speaker is the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, who I see is listed with 1 minute speaking time, but he actually has 3 minutes of speaking time, as he is the rapporteur on the matter and is therefore not subject to the same restrictions as the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1155	I don't need the 3 minutes, but I will briefly reply to the representative, Astrup. Firstly, export subsidies between rich countries are also a problem. An example of this is the Danish export subsidy for sugar, which leads to low international and rich sugar prices, so that poor countries are not able to compete, for example. Mozambique. Secondly, it is not the case that Norwegian customs protection on agricultural production affects the poorest countries in the world. We have customs freedom for the 50 least developed countries in the world plus 14 more. Still, it's less than 1 pst. of the food we eat in Norway, which comes from these countries. It is not because Norway has not facilitated imports, but should perhaps be read as a sign that these countries have other challenges and concerns than that they export too little food to Norway, which I tried to underline in my previous post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1164	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1178	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1187	Biogas is an environmental policy cheek egg. The only difference from the cheeky egg we know from the advertisement is that there's no cheeky surprise. With biogas you know what you get, and you get it every time. Some might say that the only surprise of biogas is the cost, too right to be: biogas production is not among the cheapest climate measures, but it is in return for good environmental policies and for sensible management of a valuable resource. Back to the cheek egg: biogas production from waste and manure reduces methane gas emissions from agriculture in the waste sector. It contributes to the transport sector with climate-neutral fuels, and is left with a bioresidue that can replace fertilizers or be used as soil improvers in agriculture – three things at a time. It is not often that we deal with political proposals with such an effect. Biogas is a carbon-neutral methane gas with the same characteristics as natural gas but is considered as a renewable energy source. Biogas arises ‘natural’ in old landfills with a lot of organic waste, or can be produced under controlled conditions in biogas reactors. The input factor is waste, sludge and manure that would not otherwise be exploited. Biogas can be used for heat and power generation or as vehicle fuel built for gas operation. Biogas from manure and waste is an energy production that requires minimal natural interference compared to other types of renewable energy. A study conducted by Eastfold Research, the University of Ås and Enova, has estimated that the potential for the production of biogas from waste in Norway is about 6 TWh. This corresponds to about 10 pst. of Norway’s need for fuel for the transport sector. Of these, manure and wet organic waste together constitute slightly more than 80 pst. The remaining resources are sewage sludge, landfill gas and straw. As of today, we have a long way to go to take this potential out. The government may seem a little uninterested – to be completely honest – in doing so much in this area. The few positive examples found in Norway are due to local initiatives, including: in Oslo and in my own hometown, Fredrikstad. Today, in Fredrikstad, biogas produced by Frevar is used both in buses and in renovation vehicles. In Oslo we have renovation cars, we have buses, and we also have four TINE cars on biogas, ref. the previous debate. When Oslo’s own biogas plant is in place in 2012, it will produce fuel equivalent to 3 million. litres of diesel, or the need for 135 buses. An important advantage of using biogas in vehicles is that combustion becomes very clean and therefore the problem of local emissions of harmful particulate matter and gases is not relevant. Biogas is therefore a solution, also to the challenge of air quality in large cities. Wet organic waste cannot be landfilled today and it lowers the calorific value of other waste if it is sent to combustion plants. We have a lot of livestock manure, but it is distributed across a number of farms across the country, which poses logistical challenges. The use of food waste and manure for biogas production is both logical and sensible, but it is complex and requires will and effort. That is why it is important to have a bioga strategy, on which several departments must stand together. In this case, the government has promised Stortinget to come back with an assessment of a biogas strategy as climate action in the climate communication, as it has promised with all other climate and environmental measures promoted by the opposition since 2008. The list of promises is getting long, even if nothing is promised but to assess it in the climate communication coming. So my challenge is, maybe we'll start by adopting the good suggestions, like a cheeky egg, when we have the opportunity today? We have to seize the chance. I take this up with me the proposal that the Christian People's Party is also behind as the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1215	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1218	The proposal under consideration refers to the potential of making better use of biogas resources. The case spokesperson has also done well for that. It is right not only to look at the potentials of biogas but also to look at how we can stimulate and find a way to make more use of biogas. We then absolutely support that, and the Minister for the Environment also expresses it in his letter to the Committee, which he writes: ‘New policies need to be built on a solid basis, so that we achieve the objectives we set ourselves in the best possible way.’ And then he goes on to say, "I'm taking with me the input of a bioga strategy into the further work on the coming climate announcement," which is announced during the year. The Government Party therefore proposes, by referring precisely to what the Minister for the Environment says here, that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. I record a large and in many ways a positive commitment to the use of biogas, among other things. from the Biogas Alliance, which also calls for a national biogas strategy, and which presents many of the same arguments contained in the proposal, which are also in the vote and which are now in the hands of a Joint Committee. But then the government is in the middle of working on a new climate notification, and biogas is one of many measures that need to be evaluated there. Biogas is a diverse biofuel – I totally agree with the case-speaker in it – because it does not have all of these rather uncertain questions about bear power, how environmentally friendly it is, and so on, that other debated biofuels have. In other words, there are many advantages and many good ones – call it ‘kinder eggs’, as the case-leader did, by reducing greenhouse gas emissions for manure when the gas is created. When used, the gas reduces emissions in the sectors it is used for: transport or heating. Otherwise take care of the nutrient in fertilisers. And in addition, when used in transport, one reduces the noise and local pollution in cities and agglomerations. So there's no doubt that all this is a valuable energy, and I think that for the future the means should be primarily for the transport sector. When it comes to heating, we already have a lot of renewable energy in Norway as the basis for heating. So it's not like the government is 'indifferent' to this, as the case-speaker says. On the contrary, we already have a policy to exploit biogas. Agriculture today stands for 8 pst. by Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food’s own Climate Action Communication for 2009 states that a target of 30 pst should be achieved. manure is destined for biogas production by 2020. Climate change 2020 shows that biogas, based on fertilisers, sewage sludge and various types of waste, has a significant potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have 35 biogas plants in Norway, and so is biogas production, from Innovation Norway and through Enova. In 2011, Enova ran SEK 142 million. NOK to this. For example, Transnova has supported TINE in testing the use of biogas on its cars. Biogas is exempt from user charges, and without emissions a CO2 tax does not, of course, apply. He is counting in the sales requirement of 3.5 pst. biofuels in road traffic. Several filling stations have been established around Norway. Among other things, a good part of the garbage cars in Oslo are running on biogas. It's a potential for valuable energy use. The challenge will be how to achieve profitability in the production and use of biogas in the future. These are questions that we will return to in connection with the treatment of the coming climate communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1256	Biogas from various types of waste, sewage sludge and manure is a resource that should be used to a greater extent than what we experience today. In a time of high energy prices and an important climate debate, a sensible use of biogas is a possibility we should pay greater attention. This issue lies at the intersection of energy, environment, climate and agriculture and is important. Since Norway relies largely on its electricity use on renewable energy production, biogas will, in our opinion, be the most climate-efficient in its use as fuel. It is also like fuel that sees opportunities through a functioning market that demand just biogas. But what this case — together with other similar forms of energy — shows is a lack of a general plan for energy. The party of progress has called for a holistic energy plan that takes care of them overseeing the measures and targets, so that we do not treat the individual forms of energy separately, without seeing the soundness. There will be the wrong use of resources and time, and one can't take care of the different resources within energy in a proper way. This only underlines the need to have a plan, an energy plan that will take care of the soundness of a resource that is a world-wide scarcity factor, especially the renewable one, but so far we're looking at things individually. Finally, I would like to address the Progress Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1267	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1270	Some fruits are more overripe than others, and I'll say that biogas is one of these. Biogas has so many advantages and so few disadvantages and has been referred to as ‘a cheek egg’ from the pulpit earlier today that it is an area we should bet on far more than what the government has done up to today. Firstly, biogas is based on a renewable resource, and in the process of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, biogas can be part of the solution. Our electricity supply is already largely based on renewable sources, and it is therefore, in particular, if the biogas is upgraded to fuel and thus replaces fossil sources, that we have the greatest climate impact. Secondly, biogas produced on manure will provide a climate-benefit since we are reducing the emissions of methane and natural gas from agriculture. A positive side-effect – the third element of what many call ‘a cheek egg’ – is that this can help to meet some of the challenges associated with the limitations of spreading land requirements for some agricultural enterprises that want to grow, at least if we also solve the use of the so-called bioresidue arising from the production of biogas from manure. Biogas can be used directly to produce both heat and electricity locally. Alternatively, the gas may be upgraded to fossil gas quality for introduction into the gas network or directly for use in vehicles. The costs of upgrading low-grade gas to biogas can be estimated at 10 øre per kWh and the price is still falling. Bioresidue from biogas production can be spread on fields and meadows as soil improvers. The nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium content are approximately the same as in untreated fertilisers, but the substances will be more easily accessible to the plants. Norway negotiated last year an agreement with the EU related to the implementation of the renewable directive. This gives us, for example: a liability of 10 pst. of the fuel consumption in the transport sector shall be based on renewable sources by 2020. Today, this proportion is around 4-5 pst. It is expected that this part of the renewable directive will be the most challenging to comply with. The total renewable share in transport, as I said, currently accounts for only 4 to 5 pst. The upgrading of biogas to fuel, together with electric cars, bioethanol and biodiesel, could provide the basis for Norway to fulfil this obligation. The use of biogas is relatively thoroughly explored in Climate Change 2020 under measures in the agricultural sector, on how Norway can achieve the objective of the climate change agreement on reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions. Biogas production from manure has been determined here in two steps: up to 60 pst. of the amount of fertiliser with and without interaction with wet organic waste. The measure is both an energy measure and a climate action. With so many positive effects of a biogas investment, we can ask ourselves why this production is not more established in Norway. I'll assume that the answer is composed of a number of factors. There is also a background for the right-wing choice of promoting this representative proposal to ask the government to put forward a strategy for the production and use of biogas in Norway, and that this strategy should include both potential, costs and measures, including: the agricultural and transport sectors. Unfortunately, the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left do not support this proposal, but are committed to pointing out that the Minister for the Environment, in his reply to the Committee, says that he takes into account the inclusion of his own bioga strategy in the further work on the climate communication. As you know, the climate message has been exposed several times, and it has now been announced that it will arrive in 2012. However, climate change 2020 pointed out that also in the case of biogas – like a number of other measures in the report – it is time-critical that measures should be put in place quickly if we are to achieve the emission targets by 2020. It would therefore be an advantage if the government could have a more active attitude to investing in biogas. If we're going to get something, it's important to look at the whole value chain as a whole and to get measures that can stimulate the different individual elements in the right direction. An overall strategy in production and the market is necessary, and this brings us into the responsibility of different ministries and government councils. This is precisely why an overall strategy is important, in order to coordinate the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment. I would like to see the government contribute to the establishment of several pilot plants linked to the production of biogas from manure. In Rogaland, the country's largest animal population, several actors are ready to set up pilot plants, given the right level of support, pilot facilities that can give us valuable experience of production, but also make visible the real willingness of the authorities to unleash the potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1291	There has been a previous discussion here in the Chamber about the loosely organized assembly of Biogasens Friends. As far as I remember, the representative Hemdal from the Christian People's Party was appointed leader. That House lives in the best of times, we hear that in the debate. Biogas is a fantastic energy source. The use of biogas reduces the density of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The more you use biogas to produce energy, the better it is to prevent man-made global warming. We use waste that becomes a valuable resource, and with that we also reduce local environmental problems, we get refined fertiliser from this process, and there are many good projects on the steps in Norway. I especially want to raise, as I have done in the past, Biogas Ørland, which is a cooperative of dozens of farmers who have gone together and are ready to start up. But the small extra push needed to trigger profitability in this project is what is missing, because although we have a biogas production policy today, biogas as a renewable energy source falls slightly between several chairs in terms of support schemes. Most of them are used, for example: not biogas to produce electricity, and thus biogas is not covered by green certificates. Nor does it count as energy saving, although in very many cases biogas can be used for heat production, which forces the use of electricity for heating. Here one needs to think about how we're going to be able to trigger the huge potential we have in Norwegian agriculture for the use of biogas. Biogas has a very wide range of uses, some of which have been mentioned by previous speakers. You can use it for electricity production, you can use it for district heating and not least for fuel. I agree with the representative, Mr Rudihagen, that this is a huge potential. It will also be good for local pollution. We get locally produced fuels, we get value chains that swing off, and that are very delimited geographically. It's good in every way -- it gives a very optimal use of resources in society. I very much sympathise with the proposal from the Right, but I don't think it will help to accelerate the increased use of biogas in Norway. I think, on the contrary, that if we now decide to create a separate process for a biogas strategy on the side of what the government is doing with the climate communication, it will delay the process of triggering more biogas in Norway. I believe that the natural place to take these choices is in the process of climate communication, and of course there will be important issues to discuss, both in terms of potential, instruments and funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1304	It was suggested by the case coordinator that the government party did not show enough enthusiasm for the potential of biogas resources. That I think the debate shows is wrong. I want to say that the government's party shows enthusiasm at the very top of what is possible to reprocess enthusiasm for sludge and animal waste. As a centrist, I've shared many debates and a good deal of sculptural batteries, where, let me put it that way, our attempts have made links to the more unfortunate and negative effects of manure in society. There is also a hope that it can change in the long term, and that it will focus on the resources and the value, because we are busy exploiting the biogas resources. At the time of the launch of the Climate and Agriculture Communication, an ambitious target for biogas use was the biggest contribution that agriculture can make to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. So the government that the Center Party is part of already has a great deal of attention to the possibilities of the biogas resource. Biogas production has been shown to be slightly more expensive than one thought when that big news was produced. I still have great faith in biogas. With more research and more knowledge, there will also be better profitability. Biogas is good for both the climate and agriculture, for the transport sector, and it can also be used for heating. In addition, there is less conflict than some other renewable energy production. One can see, then, that the agricultural sector is being reduced in emissions and has been given value-creating links to the supply of energy, and it also appears that the quality of residual manure is increasing. As a society, we will come closer to the climate target by seeing the biogas e.g. is used as a fuel and replaces fossil fuels that have both climate and local impurities associated with them Bioresources are not good just as energy. It also contributes to the recycling of nutrients from the big community. We need knowledge to show that the bioresidue is safe to use. We need to feel confident that the Norwegian standard for plant health, animal health and safe food will be maintained. Therefore, biogas research is also important in the future. It's good both to replace fossil energy and to create a more circular society. In Norway, a total of 35 biogas plants have been built. Five are in operation, and about 30 are in progress with concrete pre-projects. The biogas laboratory at Ås is a good example of the important effort that has been made in the field of bioenergy research. Biogas is one of many possible solutions that must be carefully assessed in the work on the upcoming climate communication. We don't think the time is ripe for impositions and restrictions within this field yet, but that research and development and support schemes need to be continued in order to exploit this resource, so that it can be commercially viable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1321	I come to a point in this debate where most things have been said. The different speakers have taken turns telling each other how important, sensible and good biogas is, and I can only join this. It's not just gas from the North Sea, it's a gas that's around the countryside in Norway, which has a lot of sources, and we can get a lot out of it. Most of the figures are also mentioned. Agriculture today stands for 8 pst. of Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions. Biogas can contribute to its reduction. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food’s own 2009 climate report states that 30 pst should be targeted. of the manure in Norway is destined for biogas production by 2020. About 35 biogas plants are built in Norway today, most of them based on sewage sludge. Five smaller plants are built for manure, preferably in combination with waste. Several have also come up with the concept of ‘child eggs’, which has been a repetition of the debate, that this is a near-conflict-free biofuel with many sites and few sites. It reduces greenhouse gas emissions from manure when the gas is stored, it reduces emissions in other sectors, such as transport, or for heating, when the gas is used, and biogas contributes to other challenges by taking care of the nutrients in the fertiliser and reducing noise and air pollution if biogas is used for urban transport. So in its great generality and shortness: this is a very good and good thing, and I perceive that the whole Storting agrees with it. And I agree with Erling Sande that there has been no lack of enthusiasm; it is as close to the roof as it can come. It's only at one point that biogas wears, and it's priced. Of course, that's what needs to be handled and solved the most. The cost is usually too high for biogas production to become profitable without aid. Therefore, Enova granted 142 million. kr for commitments to biogas production in 2011, as an important contribution to increasing production. Here, of course, it's like in all other areas when things are in a relatively new phase: we have to assume that the price level goes down over time, and that's why there's good reason to provide support now. I have visited the farm at Tomb agricultural school in Østfold. A well-functioning biogas plant has been built with a satisfactory economy. Several major cities are now running the biogas buses. TINE has been supported by Transnova to test the use of biogas on four cars to be used for the distribution of fresh dairy products to shops in Oslo. In Oslo and its surroundings, several dozen waste cars are now going on biogas, and filling stations are being established in several cities, for example: in Oslo and in Fredrikstad. The ideal, to which I am absolutely sure that the Storting agrees, is to get continuous chains, where you, for example. can imagine that the biogas produced by local farmers in Nord-Trøndelag and Süd-Trøndelag ends up on the buses in Trondheim – so that you get a complete chain. I agree with Erling Sande that it will not promote the production of biogas in Norway to take this out as a separate issue. It will be addressed in the Climate Communication, and we will return to the Stortinget in that context. Of course, if the Stortinget found that there is not enough detail in the climate communication, it will be possible to elaborate on it afterwards, but the climate communication is the place to look at this, in conjunction with other fields, also because it needs to be seen in the context of the support schemes. Finally, I would like to add that the electricity certification scheme that was introduced from 1 January 2012 is intended to support new renewable electricity production and biogas combustion that generates electricity is eligible under the green certificate scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1353	As the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen also pointed out, we have an environment in Trøndelag, and we have an environment in Rogaland. Biogas network cooperation was mentioned as having resources in the form of fertilisers that could be used for such production. These facilities could be arranged as pilot plants, and they would provide us with valuable information, both in terms of costs, production, production, etc. However, it does not seem that it would be possible to have a support scheme to get these facilities up. Does the Council of State benefit from stimulating such pilot plants, so that one can raise knowledge and opportunities to put in place a production that is both economical and otherwise viable, and which will help farmers to process fertilisers, and also lift up biogas as a vehicle and bus resource and other vehicles?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1360	The answer to that is in short yes. As I said, there is already support through Enova for a number of measures in this area. That is, of course, because we consider it sensible measures that we want to support. In the Climate Communication, we will, of course, look at the need for further support in this area. What I am absolutely sure that the representative and I agree on is that it would not make sense if I went around and pointed out exactly which projects should be eligible. There is probably also some of what has just been criticised in recent public debate. It must be on a professional basis, on the basis of support schemes, the best projects will be selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1369	As I said in my post, this is an area that is over-mature for a further bet, and it also bears the mark of today's debate. Everyone's positive. The only negative one can in some way be found is this price element, which requires a government grant to get on the rails. So the Council of State says in its statement that no one is worthy of a biogas investment being taken out as a separate element from the climate notification, which we have been waiting for quite a long time. I hope, of course, that it will come in the spring. But an area that is so over-mature and that has so many positive effects by itself, it was important to put on the table a strategy for. At least we believe that from the Right. In the context of a bioga strategy that is now related to the climate communication, it is tempting to ask when we can expect to get this climate communication, if it is coming before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1378	I don't think the representative will be very surprised if I answer what I have now answered 10,000 times in a lot of contexts: the climate report comes in June, at the latest. It might come before, but it's coming in June. Then we'll look at this as well. Now it's not that price is a question you can treat as secondary, or not important. Price is very important, because we have that view – it also shares the Right – that we want a most cost-effective climate policy. Support for biogas and support for other things that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and support for other measures that may also have other effects, will then have to be considered. So the price is important. That's why you have to look at this in a context – you have to look at supporting this against other things you also want to support. Otherwise, I agree that this is an over-mature field. I'm glad that the Right has taken this up. It's important, and it's a field where we can do a lot in Norway in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1387	The President assumes it was June 2012 – not 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1390	I think we're talking about 2012, yeah.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1395	We'll take it with us for the record. So the line chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1402	I noticed that the council said he ‘believes’ it’s 2012 he’s talking about. But he's not quite sure, and the hall will notice that. What has not been mentioned so much in this debate is that biogas has a very beneficial effect on local air pollution, compared to other biofuels and other fossil fuels. Biodiesel has a very favourable climate effect, but compared to biogas, biogas is much better for the local climate. For this reason, it is so important that we are just betting on biogas in the transport sector, where it can have both an impact on the global climate and – not least – an impact on the local environment in large cities. Oslo has therefore decided to build its own biogas plant. They process household food waste at an installation outside Oslo’s borders and use it as biogas on city buses and urban waste cars. In addition, biogas is produced based on sewage sludge from plants in Oslo. One of the reasons Oslo Municipality has decided to build its own biogas plant and that it has not done so privately is that there is a lot of uncertainty about the framework conditions for biogas. It is not natural for a municipality to build an industrial plant that has the same complexity as an aluminium plant. It would have been better left to private forces. However, among other things: because the Prime Minister and the Council of State in this Chamber have insisted that in the near future a full user charge should be imposed on all types of biofuels, there is too much uncertainty for private operators to dare enter this market. For this reason, the public – in this case the Municipality of Oslo – led by the Right Party and also the Progress Party that was placed in the City Council when this decision was taken – has gone ahead and built a biogas plant. So the signal sent by the Council of State and the Prime Minister helps create so much uncertainty about this industry that we can't trigger the potential that could otherwise have been triggered. It's very unfortunate, and it's in a very special light considering what has been said, both from the government council and from members of the government parties about how great this fuel could be, and how much we're going to bet on it in the future, when on the other hand you help undermine the same fuel's potential through signals sent from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1411	I do not manage with my best will to see that there has been any signal other than that biogas is an energy form that is very positive, which is environmentally friendly, and which we hope to get so down in price that it can have a wide application. When I asked for the word, it was because one in these times just has to make sure that something that was an attempt at a self-ironic comment, must not get attached as if it were an established truth. I tried to be a little selfish on the basis of when the climate message comes, and if there's any doubt at all: it's coming, by June 2012 at the latest!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1419	It was nice to know that it was June 2012. Although we've been used to waiting for this climate announcement, we might have endured another year, but I'm a little uncertain as to whether the climate and climate challenges can withstand it. So we're going to hope it's right around the corner. I would like to say that the initiative taken by the Municipality of Oslo on using biogas is very good. Fredrikstad has also been mentioned, and other parts of the country are also involved in this type of project. But it's clear that we're going to increase the use of biogas, it requires predictable and long-term tax legislation at all stages of the value chain. Biogas is particularly suitable as a fuel for vehicles such as buses, taxis, trucks and renovation cars, but it is also suitable for municipalities and companies that have fleets of smaller vehicles. One of the obstacles to greater use of biogas for means of transport is today’s tax regime — in particular the one-off tax. The current biogas vehicle is heavier than the corresponding petrol and diesel cars due to heavy gas tanks. This increases the one-off fee. When setting the levy on hybrid cars, the weight of the engine and the battery package is omitted. Something similar could also have been done for a gas vehicle. Furthermore, gas cars of some size – cars that can go on both biogas, natural gas or petrol – are subject to a tax on petrol according to the CO2 component, even if the use of gas is always worthwhile for each car owner. Nevertheless, it is subject to charging as if it were on petrol. A review of the charging system should therefore be part of an overall strategy for increasing biogas production and distribution. Such a review was originally promised to enter the State budget for 2012, but it is also subject to the State budget for 2013 – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1433	I have noticed that the Council of State was very clear and clear that the climate notification was coming by June 2012 at the latest. It is good to hear because Heidi Sørensen, his State Secretary, said to Dagsnyt 18 not long ago that she could not guarantee it came in June 2012. Then we take the words of the Council of State that it is his word that applies in this matter. So the Council of State says that he has sent no other signal than that he has been positive to biogas – and that is right. He sent no other signal than that he was positive to second-generation biofuels rather, and he went to Fredrikstad and opened a new diesel plant where only a few months before he agreed to introduce framework conditions which meant that the same business had to shut down. The government also contributed funds to Norwegian Forest biodiesel production plants, and so did they: they had to close because of the framework conditions that the government then introduced immediately afterwards. When the Council of State says that he has sent no other signal than that he is positive to biogas, he must also remember that the government has sent a clear signal that all kinds of fuel, including biofuels, will receive the same user fee. The question is only when it comes. The uncertainty makes private forces unable to invest time, capital and resources in this, and it is a problem if we are to develop this industry further. It's not going to evolve through public efforts alone. We need private involvement in this, and then we need predictability from the government. As the representative Meling was in the room, the right has asked for a review of the fuel charges, precisely because one wants to have the long-term and predictability of the environmentally friendly options that we know need some time to bring costs down. That review was notified in connection with the State budget in the autumn. It didn't come anyway. Now we hope it comes in connection with the revision – it remains to be seen. But we've been waiting for over a year for a review of the fuel charges, and it can't be so difficult to give clear signals that business knows what they're dealing with. We're not going to be able to meet the climate challenges or local environmental challenges that we have in Norway, without our business involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1444	We're now on a theme that's a little bit on the edge of biogas. But let me still answer this, because there are important issues that Astrup addresses. Now he's the one who's questioning it by hammering on this, but now leave it alone. I think everyone understands that you need an introduction offer if you want to introduce electric cars and also cars that go on a significant degree of biofuels in Norway. Then comes the discussion about how long that introduction offer will last. At the moment that all the cars in Norway are electrical, it is clear that there is a completely different situation. For example, it is hard to imagine that all cars should have priority in collective fields. Some people might have. Where that point of intersection is when there are so many that they can no longer have priority in collective fields, is not good to say. I think predictability here is a key – as Astrup also says. I think it might be beneficial to link this to certain clear parameters, i.e. to so many sold cars, to so-called and so-called percentage of the market, or to other things that provide predictability both for those who sell, for example. electric cars, and for those who are going to buy them. Today, Norway is what the industry itself calls an electric car paradise. They've wanted to have me on tour or elsewhere in the world, to the Russian Duma and elsewhere, to tell you about all the great arrangements we have in Norway to get electric cars quickly into the market. That is why we have sold more electric cars in Norway than all of them, most of them. When the transition comes from an introduction offer, a lower fee, a preference in collective fields and other advantages of entering the market, to the success of getting it into the market that these benefits can no longer exist because they have become many – or perhaps we have succeeded in making it the dominant car form in Norway – there is no exact science. But the best way to ensure predictability in this is to create systems for when you remove those benefits. I also think the Right will agree that at some point when you have such a point, so here there's no partial political disagreement, as I can judge it. But these are themes that we're coming back to in the climate communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1455	Nikolai Astrup has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1458	Just to make it clear: the right fully agrees that there must be a limit on the duration of benefits for different technologies. The problem now is that the government has announced that it will come, without saying anything about when. It creates a huge uncertainty for the actors involved in this, and makes people sit on the fence. Another challenge is that municipalities that assess e.g. to buy new buses, then to buy conventional buses and lock in that investment and technology with existing diesel and petrol buses, without considering going for bio-alternatives. It's a challenge, because then you lock their fleets in too many, many years to come. In the case of electric cars, the government has also given signals. There are still new signals from the Ministry of Finance that the benefits will cease. We just don't know when. It is clear that it seems very unfortunate to those who are going to buy cars, those who are going to import cars, and those who are going to use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1467	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1481	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1490	The first speaker is Mr Ström, who is speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mrs Marthinsen, who is not here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1493	It's a big thing that we're going to discuss now, and many are busy with it. It is a major issue especially for District Norway and for many small and medium-sized municipalities and pig-grown districts – therefore this commitment. We are many who believe that the law of motor travel in the outfield must be adjusted, and within this period, and I will come back a little bit to why I say so. The need for an adjustment of the law on motor travel in the field has been great for a long time. Work started with national regulations already in 1987 and has since been followed up with many investigations and trials. Several municipalities in Norway, including Hattfjelldal municipality in Helgeland and Fauske municipality in Salten, have been experimental municipalities in approx. 10 years, and has demonstrated through their efforts that this is an area that the municipalities manage in a good way. For approx. A year ago, together with some rapporteurs who belonged to these experimental municipalities, the Council of State met Erik Solheim. I think we had a very good dialogue, and the rapporteurs were presented their case in a proper and good manner. The tests show that with municipal governance, there has been greater housing and optimism in the communities of experimentation, especially among young people, and that is good. Several new jobs have also been created and new plans are in place, but it requires that the framework conditions become predictable, with a permanent law providing room for use of snowmobiles in fixed loops, where recreational driving is also open. The tests show that municipalities have a significant potential in the tourism industry to facilitate the use of snowmobiles. This is particularly true in the Nordic countries, but also elsewhere. Some people associate this issue with something negative, and one of the challenges is that it does not affect as much of the population of the country as it does. Oslo. The government handled the beach zone law in a sensible way, where you saw differences in the country you were in, and opened up so that the municipalities kept this in the best possible way within the given framework. The same should be done for motor travel. There are differences between municipalities, and I am convinced that the municipalities are best able to manage this in a sensible way. Should someone not do so, there are established arrangements – not least through the Law on Planning and Building – that take care of these things. Let me give you one example: in Inner Helgeland, we have a lot of space. Five of the municipalities – Rana, Hemnes, Grane, Hattfjelldal and Wefsn – have a total of 12,000 km2 divided into 45,000 inhabitants, i.e. approx. 30 times larger area than Oslo. Then it goes without saying that it is better suited to also have a loop net for scooters. This is open to good business and district policies. In Sweden, the scooter generates approx. 4 B.C.E. kr in value creation. This is also good district policy in municipalities and parts of the country that are struggling, among other things. with deportation. The biggest challenge we have in the districts is that young people move out of the districts, and then it's important to have more legs to stand on. Now I'm not saying that this thing with the scooter alone gets the youth back to the village, but it's actually a big contribution, which shows that many people are very interested in having this at least as a reintroduction. If Nordland had had the same population growth as Norway in the last 30 years, we would have had a growth of about 10 %. 15 pst. – instead of a decline – and we would now have been 35,000 more inhabitants. It's not like that. What I've said now is that I'm dealing with, and we're dealing with, the Soria Moria Declaration II. It says the following – and that’s what I was going to come back to: ‘The government will complete the review of the law on motor travel in the outland.” That’s very good what it says. We have fulfilled many, many areas, and I think we should also take a full review of this and execute it in this area as well. It's a little bit of nuance and disagreement, but I think it's important that we get together. We have solved many things, including: We got the rapprochement, and we've done other things too, so it's important that we also solve this, so that the economic development in the districts is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1522	Outland motor travel is of great interest to most people, and it is essentially about snowmobile driving. Motor travel in outland has also often been treated in Stortinget, by 2011. Nevertheless, it is highly relevant to identify the attitude of individual parties to give local democracy greater influence and decision-making power. In 2000, a pilot project was launched with a new management system for motor travel in outland in eight municipalities. The scheme was to last five years, and then be evaluated by the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, NINA. The NINA reports refer to more positive effects from the pilot projects. In several of the municipalities, there has been less illegal driving that is needed to reduce. The reports also indicate an increase in activity. The sample municipalities have had the opportunity to facilitate the provision of recreational services in specific areas. The municipalities that have taken advantage of the establishment of tourist loops have helped to increase the opportunity for more people to travel abroad. It is more than six years since the end of the probation procedure, but for the participating municipalities it is still valid. The rest of the municipalities – with the exception of those in Finnmark and some in parts of Nord-Troms – do not have the opportunity to authorise motor traffic in outland. Although the government has repeatedly stated that a bill on motor travel in the outfield should be promoted, the Stortinget is still waiting for the bill to be dealt with. The reply letter dated 6 February 2012, from Minister for the Environment and Development Erik Solheim, states among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The government shall assess the need for adjustments or changes in addition to those implemented in the summer of 2009. Among other things, it remains to be clarified whether to open up for recreational purposes south of North Troms.’» This is where State Council Solheim shows the government's true face. It is argued that it is necessary to clarify whether recreational services should be allowed south of the Nord-Troms area. It is really important to wonder what is essential for the authorisation of recreational driving and in which areas of the country. In our country, there are very many municipalities that have large areas that are well suited for recreation during the winter season, but which are geographically located in the wrong place. That disunity in the government is the biggest obstacle to the municipalities themselves dealing with the right to motor travel in the outland, there is little doubt about it. For the Central Party, such a restriction of local democracy must be very difficult to accept. The Progress Party wants to strengthen local democracy. An important area for strengthening local democracy is to give local politicians the right to determine the areas of the municipality. While in neighbouring Sweden there are continuous snowmobile runs across large areas, in Norway we have no one, with the exception of Finnmark and Nord-Troms. This lack of opportunities for scooter driving means that many Norwegians take the scooter and drive to Sweden to exercise their leisure activities. This is a kind of commercial leakage that should be unnecessary. A well-suited piece of legislation is what we need to regulate motor travel in the countryside, applicable to all the municipalities in the country. The government’s handling of this matter shows that it has little faith in the judgement of local politicians. You never ask in the department who knows the areas and the possibilities of scooter driving the best in terms of conditions? It is difficult for most people to accept the presence of bureaucrats at County or the Ministry of Environment as being best suited for assessing whether snowmobile driving should be permitted in each municipality. Local politicians are currently dealing with all construction issues regardless of complexity, while simple issues such as outdoor motor travel cannot deal with or decide on. It is incomprehensible that the government does not allow the individual municipality to have the power to regulate motor travel in the outland. The Progress Party wants a law to be created that gives this right to the individual municipality. In particular, account must be taken of running on land. The law must be so strict that all types of outdoor motor travel are not subject to irritation and nuisance in the municipalities which open up this type of driving in defined areas. Today's debate will show us whether the government has confidence in local democracy. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1549	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1552	The motor traffic in the outfield has been a repetition of the Storting in several respects in recent years. This is a matter which, in this context, is about local democracy and local self-governing. Right has so much confidence in local populace that we think they'll be better able to assess these kinds of things than government bureaucrats in the department and the directorate. Therefore, it is sad to have to repeat this process year after year. Already in the period 2001–05, a pilot project was carried out with extended local self-government in eight selected municipalities. The municipalities involved in the project have been able to establish both tourist loops and recreational loops. All municipalities share the view that only marginal parts of their area have been regulated to allow snowmobile traffic, subject to the test project and local planning legislation. On behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research has submitted its evaluation reports from the project, but they have never been submitted to the Stortinget. These reports conclude that the test of local snowmobile loop management is a success. The Norwegian Institute of Natural Research writes in the evaluation that all six sub-targets for better motorcycling were fully or partially met by the experimental municipalities. In fact, the population of municipalities without snowmobile loops was more plagued by noise than the inhabitants of municipalities participating in the test project. It is approaching, in my view, a direct scandal that these reports have not been submitted to the Stortinget with a view to incorporating them into current legislation, and it is very strange that the Centre Party and the Labour Party can allow the Ministry of the Environment to train this matter for years. A good example of the old code is in the municipality of Balestrand in Sogn and Fjordane. They have plans to facilitate winter tourism. The municipality has presented a planned project in the planning forum to discuss the extent to which there is an opening in the law for the use of motorised transport by belt driving in a defined trajectory. There is currently no possibility of that. Balestrand municipality is listed in the law, strict regulation of motor travel in the field, but the municipality believes that an activity and land use such as this should be managed according to the rules of the planning and building law. A wide range of cases will ensure that the environment, nature and outdoor life are taken into account. The Sogn and Fjordane County Council, in a unanimous decision of the County Selection Board, say that the law on motor travel in outland land imposes unreasonable restrictions on a locally desired winter activity, and that municipalities should have the power to take decisions in such cases if the consequences for other land use are clarified in an ordinary planning process according to the planning and building laws. The municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane also ask the Ministry of the Environment to take the initiative to amend the regulations, so that municipalities are given a decision-making image according to the ordinary planning processes by means of planning and building laws, and that a test scheme is opened up for the management of motor travel in the outland area according to the planning and building laws. It's a mystery to me that the government parties and Sogn and Fjordne's representatives are not on a proposal that supports a unanimous decision in the county selection. It would be an important declaration of trust both to the municipality of Balestrand, the county council and local democracy if they supported Right's proposal to ask the government to open up the administration so that the municipality can set up a pilot project in which the municipality can regulate the area for motorised transport by track and track in a defined trajectory according to planning and building laws. As a spokesman for many years, I have been involved in handling matters in the municipality according to the planning and building laws. At several times, we have used planning forums to unload difficult planning things to good solutions. In the planning forum, all state and county authorities that have an interest in a matter, and there are discussed different solutions, which usually end up in good plans that tend to serve all purposes. All the time, it's the municipality that's in the driver's seat. If these rounds do not take place, government authorities may object, and in the end, the Ministry of the Environment will decide on such matters. Planforum and Planning and Building Laws are good examples for municipalities that want active planning processes, and it is a very good way to give municipalities both trust and trust to exercise local democracy and local self-government in practical policies. This trust does not want the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party to give municipalities and local democracy through small changes in motor travel laws and planning and building laws. This is a good example of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1575	The case of motor travel in the outfield is a repetition in this room, and the representative Stroem, on behalf of the case spokesman, took a brief review of some history in connection with it. This is a piece of legislation designed to provide a balance between different considerations — the value of the individual’s desire for tranquillity in nature, concern for nature values and wildlife on the one hand, and on the other hand, use of nature, active use through activity, availability, recreation and motor travel on the other. For the Centre Party it is first important to stress that it is not correct, as it has been produced, that nothing has happened in this area. An important clarification was given in 2009, which clarified the business environment, the driving to a cabin, the recreation and accessibility of groups having difficulty getting into nature on their own. These were important clarifications supported by the Center Party. So it says that some of the questions that many people have been dealing with here are, among other things. what is involved in allowing recreation to take place through loop fixed by the municipalities. We from the Center Party's side have been clear about our position. We think it's the local populace who's best placed to decide this question. We want a system in which municipalities regulate this through planning, as it works in today's test municipalities, to also apply in the rest of the country. This vision is going to continue to work for those with whom we are ruling. The matter is now overdue, we have to come to a decision. There's something we've also expressed in the notes that's leading, and that a collective position and opposition is unanimous. It is hoped that the Council of State will take on board the involvement in this matter, so that a person may increase renewal and click on a treatment of this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1586	The debate on changes to the Motor Travel Act has become an annual phenomenon in the main hall in the spring with the red-green government. I think that's the seventh debate I'm in in my big career, but I don't think this is a tradition that should continue into eternity. The issue of motor travel in the outfield is a classic example of how the government handles matters with major internal disputes. It's doing very little. Individuals or businesses in this country who are so unhappy to be concerned with a matter that splits government parties, whether it is the climate issue or that now, the motor race law, must learn to wait for this government to step down and leave control to others. Motor travel in the countryside involves a balance between different considerations — on the one hand, people’s desire for peace and tranquillity when walking in nature, protecting wildlife and vulnerable nature against harmful noise and damage, and, on the other hand, the need for useful transport to areas in the countryside, tourism, opportunities for disabled persons for recreation and accessibility to natural areas. It also involves a balance between municipal autonomy and national environmental protection guidelines. Over the period 2000–2005, a pilot project with expanded local autonomy was carried out in eight selected municipalities. This was the Bondevik government that started. The municipalities involved in the project have had the opportunity to establish both tourist loops and recreational loops. It is common to all municipalities that only marginal parts of the area of the municipalities have been regulated with the possibility of snowmobile traffic in accordance with the legislation of the test project and the local planning plant. The experiment was completed in 2005, and we received an evaluation from the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research, which carried out this evaluation on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment. These evaluation reports have not been submitted to Stortinget. In 2009, some regulatory changes were made, including: increased access for commercial purposes to the use of motor vehicles in the field. However, a comprehensive proposal for new motorcycling legislation has so far not been promoted by the Stortinget, despite the fact that something has been out for consultation. If the government intends to follow up the Soria Moria II declaration, it begins to rush, for it says: ‘The government will complete the review of the law on motor travel in the outland.’ Christian People's Party supports proposal No. 1 which has been promoted in this matter, and hopes that the next time we debate motor traffic in Stortinget, it is on the basis of a completely new proposal promoted by the government, and that we will not have to have another representative from the opposition on this matter next spring – in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1606	While I think we had very good debates on food waste and on biogas, I feel that this debate does not go beyond the slogan plane. It is not possible to address the real balances that Stortinget has to make in relation to the assumption that we want to allow snowmobile activities for some purposes in Norway. But the vast majority of the people also want clear limitations on the design of snowmobiles. Motor travel in outland is initially prohibited. The law does not aim at preventing the necessary motorised movement for recognised useful purposes. It is therefore correct, as Erling Sande pointed out, that the government has opened up more extensive use of scooter motor travel in important areas – to drive people with disabilities, for different types of commercial driving and commercial driving – so that there is a better balance in those areas. A lot of reasonable driving has been opened up for. At the same time, motor traffic in nature causes a number of disadvantages and injuries — noise, terrain damage, disruption of animal life and conflict with outdoor life. That is also why there is a large, large majority of the population, and in all groups, who have systematically rejected the release that some representatives here are calling for. It shows systematic polls from 2000 and at different times up to now, at the latest in the United Nations on 5 March 2012. Then 57 pst answered. of those who asked in the nation's district barometer no to the question whether it should be easier to drive snowmobiles in the forest and on the field. The question was very simple: Should it be easier to be allowed to run snowmobiles in the woods and on the fields? 57 pst. So the population says no. And more than that, it's not like there was a majority in Oslo and Bergen who crossed the districts, it was a majority in District Norway for the same view. It was a majority in all groups for the same view, except the voters of the Advance Party. No matter how it was distributed – among different parties, by city and country, etc. – it was a majority who thought that restrictions should be imposed on the tranquillity and the type of outdoor life we are accustomed to in Norway. When you look at how the situation has changed in Sweden, and how it is in Finnmark, I think it's the general opinion that we should not have a scooter culture and a scooter policy across the country like the one they have in Sweden, and the one they have in Finnmark. So the question is, what sensible approaches can be made within such a framework, namely that there must be a balance between those who want to run scooters, and those who want to be able to travel in forests and fields and on the wide without being disturbed by scooter racing? It is not appropriate to terminate the test project until the assessment of the motor traffic code has been completed, so that those in the municipalities can be confident that it will continue. We don't want to start the same test system on a national basis, but the government will look at opportunities to meet the municipalities by giving them greater authority to decide whether they will allow the establishment of scooter loops, and what kind of code it can follow in that case. But at the same time it has to be done in a way that takes account of the large, silent majority of the population who want there to be a balance here. Let me illustrate this with a concrete example to get the debate a little bit away from the slogan plane. One of the municipalities that have had experimental activities is Vinje municipality – with an excellent SV rapporteur. In Vinje Municipality it is open for attempts at scooter driving. Almost none of it's in the mountains, it's mostly in the woods. These are scooter runners going back and forth in the municipality of Vinje, they are not connected to any network in neighbouring municipalities, and only members of Vinje's scooter clubs can run on this network. To be a member of Vinje's scooter clubs, you must have a residence address in Vinje. The last is not something that Vinje municipality or the authorities have decided. The landowners have decided that. I think everyone understands that at the moment you expand such a network in Vinje to also be a coherent network to Tokke, Seljord, Fyresdal, Nissedal, I can't take the geography completely in my head, where you can drive dozens of miles around in West Telemark – how to limit it to just those who live there, I don't know – almost certainly there will be a demand for people from Skien and Porsgrund, from Bø and Oslo to be able to drive on that web, and then, of course, on the basis of the principle of non-discrimination, Danes, Germans and people from all over Europe. Then you get something completely different from today's trials, which are limited schemes that have been very successful in many municipalities. There's this balance between building on the positive in the experiment and not letting go of something that I think very get really wanted, we'll try to reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1623	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1627	We often hear from the government that it is important to strengthen local democracy, to give more tasks to local politicians. In this case, I think it's the opposite that happens. The management of the law on motor travel in the country is a clear example of the fact that according to the Ministry’s view, local politicians are not good enough to make decisions. My question is twofold: what is the main reason why local politicians are not allowed to control the law that authorizes motor travel in the outfield of their own municipality? Why does the Council of State and the Ministry consider that case handlers in their own department and in the County of County are better qualified to handle the law on motor travel in the outlands of each municipality than those who live there?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1634	As I said in my previous post, we will now look at arrangements for how municipalities can have greater influence on the scooter operation. It will be part of the debate that we will now have, and that we will later submit proposals to the Stortinget. But the interpellant goes completely beyond what was my main concern: is it that the Progress Party wants continuous scooter looping systems in South Norway, where you can drive over tens of miles, where it will almost certainly be impossible to say that foreigners cannot participate, and where at least you will get a completely different kind of outdoor life? Is this what the Progress Party wants? At least it is certain that a large, large majority of the population does not want it. This is the party that boasts of being a party for most people, and it would be interesting to know if the Progress Party wants it. Shall I be able to sit on my cabin in the Gudbrand valley, drive on Easter tour around Rondane and come back the same day?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1641	It was a strange variant that the Council of State uses this pulpit to ask questions to the Progress Party. This case is not about release. She is about who is best able to make good judgements in order to get good plans in her municipality and in her neighbourhood. According to Right's view, local democracy and elected government are in a municipality that is best able to do so. Then it was interesting to right the tribute from the assistant case spokespersons for this matter both to local democracy and, not least, to the pilot projects that have been put in place and that have not been evaluated, and which I strongly criticized in my post have not been presented in a matter for the Stortinget. So my question to the Council of State is: When will the evaluation of the pilot project on motor travel in outlands with expanded local self-government be presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1650	I have systematically answered the questions asked by the opposition, but there must also be the opportunity to demand the opposition's answers to the most central questions in this debate. The most important question in this debate is whether you want a coherent network for recreational driving. I take a very positive view of the pilot project that has been done in Vinje and other municipalities. Can we find ways to define this, so that we get the same effect as in Vinje, I'll see very positive about it. My opinion is that the vast majority of the population – and I want to challenge the Storting to be part of that thinking – is skeptical about getting a Finnmark system. In Finnmark, it is the municipalities that have made the decisions themselves, but this has resulted in a coherent looping system – the same is true in Sweden – which I believe is very few in the mountain areas of South Norway, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1657	I would like to say once again that this is not about a release, but it is about who should be able to make assessments and who should make decisions. I did not get an answer to my first question: When will the evaluation of the pilot project be presented to the Stortinget, so that one can have a wide discussion about the good experience of the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1664	The evaluation will, of course, be presented in relation to the proposals that the government will present in this case. I repeat, because it is the opposition that has promoted this matter, that it is also interesting to know not only what the opposition criticises the government for, but what the opposition itself wants. I have a cabin in the Valley of South Gudbrand. If there is a continuous loop net in the Gudbrand valley, there will be no problem at all on a brilliant sunny day in the Easter to sit on the scooter on Thirteen, drive up to Rondane and come back in the day. It would be nice for me, but at the same time it will have a number of negative effects, which I think quite a lot of people don't want, namely a motorization of the mountain home in Norway and a completely different and new type of outdoor life, which I find at least the vast majority of the population in the gallup say they don't want, and which I really don't think the population wants. We must then be able to have a dialogue on how we can achieve the positive effect of, for example, Winning, and some other municipalities, without getting the negative effect that gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1673	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1678	I would first like to stress that I believe the Council of State is mistaken. There is no one in this Chamber who wants a complete release, neither the Party of Advancement, nor other parties or individual representatives where it may be. I interpret this in such a way that the Council of State has a bad case. He has a bad thing about not wanting to see or wanting or thinking that municipal self-government is the best thing to do with these interests. I also do not believe that the person interested in snowmobile driving is a man of 50 years, who is interested in motor vehicles and has no other interests. No, it's a range of the entire population. There are men of all ages, there are ladies of all ages, there's a lot of youth, and there are families who use the snowmobile for recreation. It's also about quality of life — spending their time on what you think is right, and for some it's getting into nature using snowmobiles. It's about municipal autonomy, as I mentioned, and it's also about business development. There are at least three things, and maybe more things snowmobiles are about. Industrial development is important. I live in Hedmark, and it's neighbouring to Värmland in Sweden. Every weekend I see a stream – and I underline a current – of Norwegian cars with snowmobile hangers in the back that travels in Friday afternoon to Sweden, rents themselves into a hotel, cabin or maybe they have even bought a small farm, and are there on the weekend. There it is approved – I underline approved – lines. Using them gives them quality of life. By being there, they add a lot of money in terms of both repairs and service on the snowmobile, purchase of food, shelter, petrol, equipment and whatever it might be. This we could rather choose to leave in Norway and thus strengthen them as for example. operates with tourism in the winter half of the year. Tourism is difficult to operate in the winter, and this is at least one of the things that will help to increase the nutrient base. Otherwise I don't know how many times I've been to this pulpit and the chat about snowmobile driving and the positive about it. It was said that this matter may have been up seven times. I actually think it's been up yet more times. That would mean that there is a great deal of interest in this matter. I do not understand that the Center Party, for example, is pushing harder on the rest of the government, so that it is authorised in approved tracks for snowmobiles. I stress that this is not about free slipping of snowmobiles, but that it is going to take place under controlled conditions. When the Council of State refers to the survey in the nations this day, I don't doubt that if you ask everyone in Norway if they say yes or no to snowmobile rides, you get a no, but if you ask them if they want local self-government, you get a yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1696	Throughout District Norway there are today many plans for development and value creation – plans made by people who will create their own future, who have faith that we will not just survive here, but here we will grow. Unfortunately, many people feel that they are being stabbed in the wheels, even from this hall. People who want to create housing, new jobs and tourism should be applauded and lifted, not hindered. These are people who take a significant responsibility on behalf of the big society and the international community. Because of the way people in District Norway have shot nature, today we have areas that seem so attractive that they have to be protected. It is then important that the same peoples are given the opportunity to create new nutrients and experiences associated with these natural areas. It's about well-being, it's about opportunities for the elderly and people with disabilities to experience our amazing nature, and it can create jobs. In the matter we are discussing today, there are many considerations that need to be balanced against each other. At one extreme, we have the lodgers who want to leave the city on the weekend and experience silence and tranquillity – yes, we can offer many places in Norway. But on the other hand, we have the few who are still residents, who want to create jobs, who want to create experiences, and who want to take advantage of the amazing natural areas they live in in the middle of, to have the opportunity to continue living in these areas. That, I think, is the best way to get good solutions through the fact that this is determined locally by the Law on Planning and Building. People who are closer to nature, who are closer to the conflicts that can arise around this, are the ones who are best suited to make good solutions. In this debate, I have experienced a good signal from the Council of State about opportunities for more local authority. I believe that this is well done – including what the Council of State is concerned about – through the Planning and Building Act. People who know how the Law on Planning and Building works know perfectly well, with the appeal procedure that is, that it does not represent any release. That is why I would like to end by stressing that we are attending to the announced review of the law on motor travel in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1707	This debate began very well. It was actually quite exciting and pleasant to sit here and hear one speaker after another from the position and from the opposition be clear that there is a need for changes in the law on motor travel in the outfield, that they have great confidence in the municipalities and local democracy, and that this is possible and necessary to do something about it. Then the idyll broke when the Council of State came to the pulpit and clearly stated that the assembly was on the wrong track – there were quite other issues involved. First of all, the Council of State starts by saying that the other of us are on a track where there are rhetoric and claims. Yes, at least the Council of State followed up well on going completely into a ditch that no representatives have mentioned, namely full release, continuous looping across the country – that was the issue. No other representative has mentioned it in the matter or in the debate. It's taking the rhetoric all the way out and making trouble in a debate that was on a good track. It really disappoints me. In addition, there are factual errors when it is established that noise and damage to nature is the major problem of snowmobile driving. So it's not -- we know it's in those areas where there's a lot of use. Then there was the rhetoric about the simple question of a wanted it easier to drive in the woods and outland. It's not a simple question when you don't know the option. What are you going to decide? It's clear that you can get such answers out of it, but that's what the option is, you have to work with, and that's what the opposition is asking for in this case. In the absence of continuous driving, then, a provision must be made to ensure that it does not become a continuous driving. And what's continuous driving? It referred to the crossing of municipal borders as a continuous driving. I am not sure if the people who live at a municipal border believe that crossing the municipal border is a continuous drive. So it's their community where they're moving back and forth to friends, neighbors, mountains for recreation, hunting or whatever it is. Here it is permeated by a total lack of confidence in the elected level. Those who sit in the municipalities around the country are elected by people and can decide this on behalf of the people who have voted in favour of them, and those people have voted in favour of them on the basis of their opinions. Why is it okay to run on the banks of Finnmark, but not in Setesdal Austhei? If the Council of State can explain to me the big difference in principle, there's going to be an exciting debate going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1719	As the Council of State said, scooter policy and use of scooters in Finnmark are very important. I just want to have it as a starting point for my post. I want to address some of the issues that we have. Today, the County of Finnmark consistently rejects all local government decisions on the connection of scooter loops if no corresponding kilometres are cut in existing loop networks. This is hardly covered by the Motor Travel Act or regulations, but as far as I know, it is expressed in a letter from the Department, pending the revision of the Motor Travel Act. We are many who are impatient with the fact that something is going to happen with the further work on the law. The same impatience is also strongly expressed by a unanimous committee. Local politicians have been given confidence by the population and authorities to take decisions that affect people's lives and health and education, but also in the law on planning and building, to mention something, but we do not allow local democracy to make reasonable adjustments to a network of loopholes. We who sit in this room have the opportunity to change it, and that challenge should be addressed. For many municipalities and for local democracy in general, this is perceived as a massive outrage. Those are strong words, but something I think is important to convey in the debate today. This goes beyond local democracy and regional democracy. I would like to point out that in the current state plan for Finnmark, the County Council expects the municipality to be able to ‘link snowmobile loops across the municipal boundaries’. The practice of Fylkeschen means that the interconnection of the loop network across municipal borders and national borders becomes very difficult to achieve. We have many projects in Finnmark that are working on it, but all of them stop because of the practices that are being implemented today. Therefore, many wonder why this happens when it comes to knowing what key political signals have been given in terms of reducing restrictions on the travel industry in the motorcycling law. I'm asking the same question. There is a strong political consensus across the party boundaries in Finnmark that municipalities in the county must have the opportunity to connect their scooter loops without at the same time being required to cut similarly in their existing loops. I am therefore pleased with the signals that the Council of State has indicated here today. Finally, if you drive more than 300 meters outside a marked path on an iced lake, you are at risk of being fined with thousands of dollars. Think you're running a boat on Oslofjorden and you're more than 300 meters away from the rent! Would you be fined? In the case of motor travel, it happens. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council that this practice should also be reviewed when, hopefully, the work on the law will take place in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1736	This matter has been the subject long before the red-green government took up its work. I wasn't really going to take the floor in today's debate, but after listening to the speeches in the debate, my regional political commitment started. We who live in the districts of this country have a lot of space around us. This place we have a strong desire to be able to use both for nutritional purposes and for recreation. If you use this well, it gives you both housing, well-being and work, as many people have done. This provides a good basis for both housing, nutrient development and growth in rural areas. This isn't a drag; it's a fact. Neither in the districts can we live on just air and love, as someone in the central strata believes. At the same time, we who live in the districts are very concerned about taking care of nature and the environment where we live, not least for future generations. In that way, I would say it so strongly that we don't need any caretakers from Oslo or anywhere else to tell us anything about this. This has the most competence for the rural population. In my opinion, we need to have much more systems that are differentiated by the availability of land, population and opportunities. With regard to the use of snowmobiles, there is no doubt that we are best served with a well-organised loop net instead of illegal driving anywhere. This provides both greater security and an environmental benefit. I'm going to go all the way to the posts from both Stream, Simensen and others who have had the word here from the red-green side. Now this matter has to be high on the agenda, and here we have a good basis for making good arrangements that are adapted to the environment and geographical areas to which the rules apply. This is good district policy, it is good industrial policy, and it is good environmental policy. And as many people have said, the Soria Moria statement clearly states that we are going to complete the review of the law on motor travel during this majority period, as several others have mentioned. I look forward to this treatment, and I know that many, many others in the districts do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1753	I belong to those who are happy to use nature, and I am happy to ski. Nevertheless, I am very concerned that the municipalities must have the opportunity to create recreational loops for snowmobiles. There's no difference between these two areas, on the contrary: we have space for both of them. Then I want to remind you – since we see that it is spring in Oslo: In many parts of the country there is snow. When the snow's gone, the scooter tracks are gone. We have to remember that. Space is what we are blessed with much of this country, and we have room for both those who will go skiing and be in peace and quiet, and those who want to use snowmobiles to get out. And there are ordinary families who want it. The case of motorcycling law is a matter that has a great commitment around many parts of the country. The Government has stated in the Government Declaration that it must complete the review of the Motor Travel Act. We believe that it is now time to complete the review. The impatience is very great. Experience from test municipalities with local government shows good results. The Planning and Building Act is a good tool for local snowmobile management. From the centre party we believe that the municipalities are the most suitable ones to manage the law on motor travel. It is our clear position in the further work of the government, as the representative Erling Sande expressed it in his fine speech. In the state from which I come, Troms, there is a great commitment around the matter, which I mentioned initially, both in the district and in the city, but it is in the districts we have the great place of this type of activity. And there's no freeing of snowmobiles this is about -- it's important to emphasize it -- there's no freeing this is about. On the other hand, there is talk of a regulated use of snowmobiles, recreation, where we in the Center Party believe that the use of the Planning and Building Act is a good starting point. Then you'll get a snowmobile loop and a ski between, for the benefit of all parties. That's what our neighboring country has been able to do. Then it was just missing that we were not going to be able to do it in this country too! The centre party is occupied by local government, and we are concerned that the wit is evenly distributed throughout the country. Healthy, local public health in snowmobile policy should be a slogan that the government must also be able to use for its policy in this area. From the centre party we look forward to the law of motor travel being completed, and we expect a separate case for Stortinget about this now in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1766	Like several others here, I had a bit of involvement with the Council of State, because I believe the Council of State is right that the great majority does not want to remove all the regulations on motor travel. Neither is anyone in this room who wants it, or who has said it. So I'm very unsure if it's wise for the council to use its intervention to argue against that kind of caricature vision, which very few of us know us in. In any case, I have to say from the Center Party that I don't remember being added to such a vision. We should focus this debate on looking at the positive and negative aspects of different forms of regulation. That would be the constructive way of entering into such a debate. We, on the part of the Central Party, point to – as the representative Lange Nordahl had in mind – local democracy, local populace, and will give them just the means and the ability to regulate this policy area. Then I also want to warn against a rhetoric that is heading towards the fact that all responsibility that is left to local peoples means unilateral liberalisation or unwise local solutions. It's not like that. Who is more busy managing their local areas in a good way than those who live there – those who live and live their lives in Norwegian districts, surrounded by just the beautiful nature, the forests that are there? I experience when I travel around, that this is the highest up-to-date, local populace who are largely concerned about finding good solutions for those who live and live in these areas. And then I also want to give credit to the representative Harberg to show an example of why continuous looping might be a good solution to some places. You can imagine that by finding an area located in the border between two municipalities and using it for traffic, you can find a solution that will just conserve nature, build and build cabins elsewhere. So let's not go into the trenches, but try to find good solutions on how to give locally elected travelers for sensible regulation of this policy area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1779	Let me first give praise to the Right, who has promoted the proposal today. I just wish that the Right, when they were in government, had promoted the same proposal. We in the Progress Party did it that time, and then the Right voted down the proposal. But we see light in the tunnel. I have to say that I am very stunned when I heard the comments of the State Council in Solheim on this matter. It is quite true, as many people say, that when you hear the Council of State, you react using the word ‘leap’ in terms of snowmobile driving. No one has spoken in this room for as long as I have been with and debated this matter – and it goes back to 1997. So I'd like to see the State Council Solheim come up to the pulpit and justify or refer to where it says, or who it is that has said that you want a full release. So the council spends a lot of time pointing out polls that he uses to argue against snowmobile driving and to open up the code. I would also like to challenge the Council of State to clarify whether there is a new principle that governments have begun to follow, that they follow polls. I thought it would be professional argument that would apply in this debate. I must say after having heard the article to the Council of State that there is a complete lack of professional substance in his articles. There is no professional argument. He uses polls and he uses freezers of snowmobile driving as argumentation. Otherwise, there's a rather strange debate. Everyone agrees on the matter, and no one really argues against it. But I have to say that then the result of the vote may be even more wonderful when there is no majority of the proposals that the opposition has in this case and that are likely to be downgraded. The husband of the double communication of the red-green deposit representatives shall be searched for a long time in this matter. You agree until it comes to voting, then you vote against it. But the media looks pretty good, of course. I hope that someone will eventually also start to grips with it. I started my post by criticizing the Council of State. I will stop congratulating the Council of State on the victory in this matter. The Ministry of the Environment continues to resist this, regardless of whether the State Council comes from SV or from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1792	The Council of State called for opposition responses to what they wanted. Yeah, so now we've moved on to one thing about what we want in the first place. It is only for the Council of State to follow up, provide an evaluation of the trials and promote a case, and he will be told very clearly what the Right believes. It's a new line if it's the Right that has to present what they want for the State Council to file a case for the Storting. It would be a new practice. Why would the Right arrest this, and the opposition and the government parties, I hear in the Chamber now? Firstly, it is impossible to establish national, fair rules that meet the needs of the municipality of Norway. In fact, outland motor travel is an important infrastructure in many places — elsewhere it is not at all — but in some places it is an important infrastructure. Activities have been mentioned. It is absolutely an important element in large parts of the country. When it comes to recreation, I don't know if I get an answer to that with the illogical boundaries and the difference between Finnmarksvidda and Setesdal Austhei. We have good experience in experimentation, and I want to challenge the Council of State on where in the attempts he saw release, since he is so concerned about it as an alternative. We have good experience from the trials, and we have good experience from neighbouring countries, which are particularly vulnerable to illegal and uncontrolled driving. The experience of neighbouring countries is that people have great respect for the routes chosen, and they do not go beyond them. We have democratic processes that can take care of this in the municipalities. So it's just saying that it can be done there, and then the processes are going on. Then I must be allowed to pay tribute to the glittering contributions of the representatives of the government parties here in Stortinget. I couldn't say better myself. Then it becomes a little bit weird, as Korsberg was also in the middle of it, when it's such double communication. Irene Lange Nordahl told me from the pulpit here that she was expecting something. She told the newspaper New Troms last week that patience is over. A clarification is required on this matter now in the spring. But they are therefore voting against the proposal to have the evaluation carried out in the spring of 2012. Clearly, double communication has been a long time since I've seen it, and they may need to explain this. Then I can only confirm that the government parties – the two parties that have been up and flagged that they will do something – can stand with their backs straight, because around the Municipality of Norway there are now more and more representatives from the Central Party and the Workers' Party who want a clarification. I have a look-up here from Seatesdölen, where representatives from the Center Party and the Workers' Party have gone to County and asked, "Can't we get to be a test-communist, too, because we have to do something about this? I thought it might also mean something to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1805	I also have to comment, even though it is my own Council of State. I can't stop! You talked in your article about the scooter policy in Finnmark and Sweden, and asked questions about whether we would have the same states as we do in Finnmark. As a Finnmarking, I have to ask the question: What's wrong with that? The vast majority of Finnmark live well with the opportunities that travel in the outfield gives, and how it happens, whether it's over written on a scooter, on skis, on dog trails or on foot. The fact is, no matter how you get into nature, it gives you joy, it gives you natural experiences and it does something to us that travels out in nature. I think it's worth taking care of. We have a loop network that takes the necessary considerations, and is within the scope of the law. We don't want a release. We want regulated conditions, but we want small adjustments. To the representatives of Korsberg and Harberg: we have the unique opportunity to address this internally in the government, so we don't double communicate, but we communicate through the pulpit the challenges and issues that we want to discuss with the government. We hope, of course, that we will achieve, and that we will end up with what we all want: some adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1814	The President will remind you that appeals to his own State Council must also be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1817	This has been a strange debate. In fact, it's been everyone against the Council of State. It's probably the first time I've experienced it in this room. We all agree on one thing: local politicians know best where the shoe prints. There's nothing else we want. State Council Solheim asked me in the line change whether the Advance Party would have a continuous loop across the country. Of course we don't. But we also want recreation to be something that can benefit the people. We've heard a lot of examples of this with the development of nutrition. People in the districts – in pig-grown areas – know this. They've lived with nature, much more than you have here in Oslo. So there's no doubt about it. Those who sit and represent people in each municipality are chosen by the people, and they are the best. The fact that the County and the Ministry will have all the power is abuse of power. You can then draw comparisons with the Planning and Building Act and give permission to the most complex buildings. Every municipality has to have an administration to deal with. It's hard, it's hard! I myself am trained in that field, and have a long work experience, but there is no question about who is going to have the decision. We know that it is possible to appeal and complain, and it should be in every case, but it is the local politicians and not the County Environmental Protection Department or bureaucrats who sit on Akershu’s fastening, which is best equipped to decide on snowmobile driving – whether it is commercial or recreational – just so it’s quite clear. I have to say that all the posts that we have had today are just about this. You want to open up a little bit, not have all the strict, rigid rules, and then transfer the authority where it belongs. We should all bet on that, and it's to hope that the Soria Moria statement is taken note of, and that you come to the Stortinget with a new law that regulates this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1828	That has been a strange debate. I can't remember that there has been so much criticism by the Council of State, in fact, from all parties. If one were to use military professional language, I would say this is approaching punishment order number. One. I think Bendiks H. Arnesen tops the whole thing when he said we don't need any more porters from Oslo or other places. It's a very good description that trust in local democracy is actually what we need. The connection that has come to it from all the representatives here also confirms that local democracy should be an important pillar. So I don't know the historian Korsberg, but I totally support him in what he says about double communication. To be honest, I think that the government party should join forces and take that debate and come here and talk to one tongue, so that we know what the government's policy is. I've previously asked central government councils in a rogue debate whether it's not such that the government's policy is also the Center Party's policy. I think it would be a great advantage for the assembly here that we got the government's policy served. Otherwise I must say that there are three good proposals in this matter. I understand that it is a problem for some people to follow Right's suggestion to let Balestastray try out a project, where a user has the planning and building laws to deal with things, when the municipalities get their hands on the wheel in relation to dealing with that kind of thing. I just want to remind you that a collusive state selection in Sogn and Fjordne actually recommends such a model. Still, it's going to be depressed. Right has proposed that the evaluation of these pilot projects should be presented to the Stortinget. Why can't the Labour Party and the Central Party press their State Council so that at least it's said from the interlocutory here and confirmed in decisions that this evaluation is going up in the Stortinget? It is precisely when it comes to the third proposal, where one asks that there be a case of motor travel in the outlands, and where the municipalities are given greater authority – that there is a case about it in the Stortinget. I cannot understand and understand that it would not be possible to support these proposals. That would be the quick method of getting a change in a case where everyone is a few – except for the Council of State and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1843	Cooperation is giving and taking. The question is whether this really is the corner stone of SV on which it is impossible to move. Representatives from all parties, unconscionable SV – and the Council of State is apparently alone from that party in the Chamber – have the order that local democracy should have a certain armshake. I myself have visited a municipality in Northern Ireland where I got an example of how a local manager manages scooter running – then according to the planning and building laws – with listening rounds where everyone could get their point of view on how this was to be done. One agreed on a loop and a solution that everyone thought was okay – and it worked. It has worked for many years, and one has only good experience with it. So the question is, why not give a clarification in a matter that is more than over-mature for a clarification? What we are experiencing today is that the Swedish Council of State is not willing to give local democracy room to play, but is willing to break the law – because the test law is very clear on how long the trial will last. One might not want to rip this up so much. In fear of destroying the municipalities that are in the test facility, and where this works well, leave a click on it. But it is actually a fact that the law is broken – one cannot come to a clarification and get it regulated in a proper and proper way. Now, let's get this thing a solution to the joy and benefit of local democracy, for disabled people, not least, and last but absolutely not least, for reason – and as I see it now, it's SV, and SV alone, who stands in the way of it. From then on!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1855	Now, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I have had an introduction of 5 minutes where I have said a few things about this matter. But when the representatives Skumsvoll and Lødemel come up with their comments that everyone is against the Council of State – at least that's what Skumsvoll said – I really think it's going too far. I think we have really had a good debate with exchanges. The fact that there are nuances and slightly different perceptions between the parties in the government – whether this government or other governments have been sitting – has certainly been at all times. I think this is an important matter to discuss, so we can move on. There can't be any sensation either, because it's in the Innst. 216 S: ‘The Committee will stress that the case has taken some time,’ – it does – ‘and meets with the completion of the review of the law on motor travel in the field’. There's been a very broad consensus on that. So it's also like, as the representative of Kåre Simensen said, that you have the opportunity to get on with this case. And there's been a good pressure on it. I am reasonably sure that the Council of State, which has been accused of both the one and the other, is willing to agree to go a few rounds, so that one can get the best possible solution, among other things. for the districts, in the case of outland motor travel. I'm pretty sure of that. I think it is important to include it in the debate. Finally, I would like to say the following: I suppose no one has said – what I have heard at least – that it should be free and free. This shall take place in regulated forms. I'm sure we'll be able to solve this in the best possible way. As I said in my previous post, we have had many big things that we have solved, among other things. I was in the middle of the deal about predatory game, and I am sure that we will also resolve this matter and get a few steps further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1871	Let me say that I agree with Tor-Arne Stroem that the debate has gradually taken a more sensible turn. We have come up with what regulations are needed to strike a balance between the silent majority of the population that I have spoken on behalf of in this debate – the silent majority who do not want us to have any free spins of scooter driving, but who want to have this in regulated form – and the decoration that I have also called for, to meet the part of the population that wants more access to scooter driving. Kåre Simensen says that he wants small adjustments of the legislation, and it is identical to what I want. Henning Skumsvoll says that of course we should not have a continuous loop net, and it is – once again – identical to what I want. So the question is, how do we get into a regulatory regime that ensures this? Svein Harberg drew to the extent that is difficult, in a very clear way. Now let me be very specific: if you live in the Øyer municipality – there I am very well known – but on the border of Ringebu, it will of course not be very interesting to get access to the scooter inwards in the Øyer municipality if you are not also going to be able to drive into Ringebu. I don't think anyone in Norway will understand if you use the municipal boundaries as a barrier. But it is clear that the exact same problem will emerge at the border between Ringebu and South-Fron, between South-Fron and North-Fron, between North-Fron and Sel and further up the entire valley to Dovrefjell. Every single place someone will live right on the border between one municipality and another. If you satisfy the sum of all these local desires, you have what Stortinget now says we shouldn't have, that is, a continuous loop, that's accessible to everyone. This is the way the loop network has been created in Sweden, in Finnmark and elsewhere — not through any overall design or plan from anywhere, but through the sum of individual decisions. What I invite Stortinget to a dialogue is how to get more local self-government. I'm 100 pst. agree with the idea that the wit is equally distributed in Norway. Of course, there's no more sense here than anywhere else, maybe there's even less sense in Oslo, I don't know -- the wit is equally distributed across the country. It is about how to avoid the sum of individual decisions made by competent people on the best basis in each municipality becoming something that the majority of the population now say you don't want, namely a continuous loophole network and the pressure on significantly more scooter driving that will come from it. It will also be completely impossible to make any boundaries where this is only reserved for people locally, or only for someone. In practice, it will have to be open – I think – to the whole of Europe. There are EEA clarifications that have to be made in that case. I think it's because you just encounter this difficulty, that the Right didn't do anything in this case when they put with the power to do it. That, of course, is a funny point for the Progress Party in the debate, but it is also a heavy reality. Neither the Right Party nor the Christian People's Party did anything about it. It is the red-green government that has softened the legislation on important issues – such as Erling Sande and several others here. We have granted exemptions for disabled people and for various types of driving for people who are ill. We've opened up different forms of business. We have softened up a regulation that was more rigid under the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. When there was more rigour under them, I guess it wasn't of evil will, but because the Right also had difficulties finding the way to soften this up that ensures that we get more local decision, but at the same time not what the Storting now says it doesn't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1884	The Council of State's last observation that what has happened to this matter has happened under the red-green government is quite correct. I have been at Stortinget for 15 years now and have discussed this matter under many governments, but it is in the last few years that something has happened, if you have to feel that it has not happened enough. I will not withdraw this debate, and I will not instruct either Vice-President Korsberg or the representatives of Harberg and Lødemel regarding voting in the Chamber. Their statement may be due to the fact that they have not been on the Stortinget except as a member of an opposition, and that the Korsberg party has never been in government. We who have this experience know that we do not impose on our own government, but take it up directly – although at times this too can be both demanding and loud. This is probably the case that the representatives Harberg and Lødemel party traps that have been in government can be in position, confirmed correctly. I'll let the outside world know what I mean about such things, and I'm going to be able to get it out in a clear and clear way directly in the government cooperation we have. I think we have a case that is now being followed up well on all teams. I believe that the Council of State, in particular from the last post he had, has taken the signals that the representatives have given today. In that way, I'm completely in line with Tor-Arne Stroem when he says that we've been able to solve difficult things before, and we're going to do it again – in the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1893	The Government shall now complete the review of the Motor Travel Act in the field. Both Erling Sande and I have explained the centre party's views on this matter. I think it's been a very good debate. Both Erling Sande and I have been very clear on what positions the centre party has in this case, which will now be further worked with in government. Local snowmobile policy management using the Law on Planning and Buildings believes that we are the best way to regulate this, both for skiers and for those who want to use snowmobiles to get into nature. It is very important to keep the balance in mind in this work. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think it is good that the Council of State in its last article invites dialogue to find good solutions to this matter. I'm sure we'll be able to do that. There is a great commitment around this matter, and I am absolutely sure that the Council of State has also listened to this great commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1902	Svein Harberg has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1905	When the debate goes into what has been done before, and who has not done anything for several governments since, we realize that someone is standing with his back against the wall. That's okay. We also understand – as it is – the political game between government parties and opposition. The reason I took the floor was the great question of the Council of State – which he obviously had no answer to – about how to ensure that the sum of the measures was not unwanted. Well, one ensures it in exactly the same way as in all other areas covered by the Law on Planning and Building. It does you with beach zones, it does you with cabin construction, it does you with housing – it does you with everything else. Similarly, ensure that there is a complete, good picture in this respect. I hope the Council of State will take that with me. With the pressure that is now from the other government parties, and the fact that the Council of State has received this answer, I have confidence that something is happening in the matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1912	It has been interesting to follow this debate. I have to say that there has been a debate that has evolved – from a government council that was very persuasive at the beginning of the debate and tried to draw up a – let's say – enemy image of those who want liberalisation in this field, as if it were the total release, to now in its last post to moderate and speak more in the direction of dialogue. In that case, it is a positive development. But what remains in any case is a rather crass criticism from his own government parties, which cannot be perceived in any other way than that one starts to get tired after 6 1⁄2 years in government without actually being able to get on with this matter. Then it must be said, as I see it, that the representative Arnesen is doing, that this is something that is kind of taken up in the Chamber, you are not doing it in the parliament of the country, in this Chamber. But there must be limits to how long you need to meet in the chamber – 6 1⁄2 years is very long – and there must be limits to how long you can run around and promise your own voters that you should do something about the matter, without changes in reality, without seeing results. There might be some red-green representatives now notice that their own voters are actually expecting results. It's not possible to jump around and speak positively to a more sensible administration regime here without actually being able to do anything about it. But I see the signals as pretty clear, and we should at least follow up if you can't deliver what you promised, this time either. And then there's an impression that you don't get by anyway. I find it very difficult to understand in any other way than that the Council of State actually shows a lack of basic trust in elected representatives in the municipalities of the country, because one troubles and says that even though the wit is evenly distributed, there are a lot of problems here that these elected locals are unable to deal with. Well, I think it's the exact opposite. I'm sure our local elected representatives are very well able to handle this, like many other things, at the local elected level. I think we should show confidence in that by moving the decision-making authority down to the local populace level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1921	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1935	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1949	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1964	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e1970	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2034	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2044	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2068	During the debate, Per Roar Bredvold has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In Law No 16 July 1999 69 on government acquisitions is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2434	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2448	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2472	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads: 'Decision of the Act amending Law No. 24 February 1995 No. 12 on Holidays and Holiday Peace
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2521	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to file a case for the revision of the applicable law so that Sunday-open shops are made possible.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2556	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to work actively internationally to put in place common measures for the reduction of food waste.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2586	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work towards a target of reducing food waste in Norway by 25 pst. by 2015, and take action in line with this.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests a review of the food labelling system with a view to preventing unnecessary spillage of food that is fully edible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement and support information measures that can help reduce food waste.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2617	During the debate, Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a strategy for biogas use in Norway during the spring 2012 session. Such a strategy should include the potential, costs and measures in, inter alia, the agricultural and transport sectors for increased biogas production and use.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2631	The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2648	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Henning Skumsvoll on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, from Henning Skumsvoll on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to open up a pilot project to enable the municipality of Balestrand to set up a pilot project in which, in its spatial plan, the municipality can regulate the area of motorised transport by track-carriage in a defined line by design and building law.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for changes to the law on motorcycling in land and watercourses and any other laws, in order to increase the size of municipalities when it comes to outdoor motorcycling – within national guidelines – and where the experience of the pilot project with increased local self-government is taken into account.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2683	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During the spring 2012 session, the government is asked to provide the Stortinget with an evaluation of the pilot project on motor travel in outland with extended municipal autonomy in eight selected municipalities in the period 2000-2005.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2705	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2714	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2722	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-20.ana.ud1378e2734	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
