ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e96	Honourable co-representatives! Former PD Hans Hammond Rossbach is dead, almost 81 years old. Rossbach represented Left and was elected to Stortinget in 1965 for More and Romesdal. He refused to renomination in 1985 after sitting continuously for five periods at Stortinget. It was the debate around the Common Market in 1961 that aroused his political commitment and led him into local and county policy. At Stortinget he marked himself strongly in the major oil extraction debates, where he weighted fisheries and natural resources. Hans Hammond Rossbach was busy saving for future generations through a lower rate of oil extraction, and he spoke warmly for a more equitable global distribution. He warned against major interference in nature and fought expediently for Altaelva and Mardalsfossen. He made a vigorous effort for Kristiansund’s continental connection. His social commitment was great, and he was concerned about improving the situation in the care of the elderly. Rossbach listened when people shared their experiences or opinions with him. This made him a respected politician. During his years in Stortinget he became more and more important to the party, first as a member of the national government, then as a Vice-Chairman, before becoming the party leader in 1976 and until 1982. He was the parliamentary leader for twelve years from 1973 to 1985. One of his most challenging tasks was to be given to him as head of the EC Committee of the Left. The committee presented a broad investigation that he hoped would bring together the fractions. It did not work, but he worked for reconciliation and reunification. He remained in the time after the division of the Left in 1972 to a large extent the party's rock in the National Assembly. Rossbach was a social economist and resumed his work at the school when he returned to his hometown. He continued to teach in social economy at the Atlantic high school, but was also a sensor and lecturer at the Business Economics Institute. At the same time, he devoted much of his time to the establishment of a national coastal cultural centre in the Wågen in Kristiansund. We thank Hans Hammond Rossbach for his work and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e117	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that the meeting, if necessary, will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e133	A foreign policy trend in the economic crisis is the risk of increased protectionism. There was a common national measure in the 1930s, but we see in retrospect that there was going to be a direct line from crisis to countermeasures, rival protectionism, an even deeper crisis and equally open confrontation. My experience is that this unique lesson is well anchored among the majority of world leaders. In Europe, EU cooperation is an important barrier to light-wine barriers to trade and one neighbour turns against the other. This creates stability, especially for the new Member States. The pressure for increased protectionism often creeps forward, often in disguise. We see that, at Obama's request, the U.S. Congress is calling for US purchases of measures to strengthen the economy. It will be a serious mistake. It can initiate a chain reaction of competing protectionism all over the world. With an open economy and highly dependent on international trade, Norway could be hit hard by such developments. ‘The government will therefore work in all relevant forums to counter increased protectionism.’ I found out that it was a good idea to start with what I think is a good passage from the foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre's foreign policy statement that was made on 10 February 2009. There is no doubt that the situation seen in the world economy and in the European economy can easily lead to increased protectionism. It was therefore with great enthusiasm that I, and many with me, could read that then Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre at the 8th WTO Ministerial Conference in Geneva in mid-December last year signed a powerful bulwark against all forms of protectionism. It was not enough, the almost 50 foreign ministers who signed the appeal, to refer to the general decisions that had been taken at the WTO Ministerial Conference, but to further commit themselves to it. It was a promise to fight all forms of protectionism. It was intended to commit itself to relinquishing new barriers to trade in goods and services. From the Right we share this concern, and we were pleased that the government so clearly distanced itself from protectionism. But it doesn't keep taking away from protectionism in statements. Nor does it keep coming up with fine statements in foreign policy presentations, and it does not, as was done in the case of the census this year, make it clear that we are doing very well in Norway, but that there is economic instability, social unrest and high unemployment in many places in Europe. In this case, action must also be taken by the Norwegian side to help resolve the situation. There have been many discussions in this room, and there are likely to be, on the government's decision on percentage customs duties on cheese, meat and certain flower varieties. No one has doubted that this is within the regulatory framework of what Norway has the opportunity to do. At the same time, in my view, many have asked the timely question of whether there is a wise policy in a Europe in crisis and in a world that needs trade more than ever. What political signal does it send that we who sit here and have it well in our part of the world want to build trade barriers and customs barriers against other countries? And, not least, what signal does it send in relation to the political declarations that Norway has made? We were going to fight all forms of protectionism as late as last December and refrain from building up further barriers to trade for goods and services. What has happened in the cold water of the customs matter has been partly strong reactions from many. In none of these reactions it has been considered that Norway has no opportunity to do so. Nevertheless, I would like to stress what is often forgotten in this room, namely that there is a difference between law and politics. Although one can actually be allowed to do one thing and be within the regulatory framework, politics and the political signal can turn out very unlucky. Jusprofessor Fredrik Sejersted, the man behind the big report on Norway's agreements and relations with the EU, says as follows: ‘Although there may be scope within the Agreement to choose between different ways of calculating customs duties, any mechanism leading to an increase in customs duties would be contrary to the spirit or intention of Article 19 of the EEA Agreement.’ He further states, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 19, that the parties must: «continue its efforts with a view to gradually liberalising trade in agricultural products». That is exactly what is at the heart of the question of protectionism, of barriers to trade. What do we have the opportunity to do, and what is the political wisdom to do? This isn't just about dealing with our closest neighbours. Now it is just as – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stressed in many respects – that the EU is our main trading partner. About 80 pst. of all our exports go to the EU. It's quite natural -- it's our closest neighboring country. But this also applies to government's policy of trade with other countries, which are further away. Let me, for example. mention the issue of meat imports from African countries. This has been a discussion for a long time. From 2002, Norway introduced tariff and quota freedom on goods from the world's poorest country. The idea was to open up our markets to goods that could be produced in poorer countries, thus stimulating the economy of poor countries. We had, and have, many agreements with many countries, but then it turns out that as soon as the volume of the export of meat products to Norway reaches a certain level — in fact, the level where it is possible for the exporting countries to make money and build up the economy — Norway says stop. There is no doubt that Norway has an opportunity to do so within the framework of the legislation. To the extent that Norway is free to assess the level of imports we want. No one's in any doubt about it. The question is what political signal it sends that we — one of the world’s richest countries — as soon as exports from poor countries reach a volume that makes the intentions behind that trade, namely to establish an economy on the legs, are fulfilled, Norway closes the gates. As late as June this year, the government presented its own agricultural strategy in Africa, and the idea behind that strategy is, in my opinion, good. The idea of the strategy is to ensure more, a greater potential, out of agriculture in poor countries. Not only should you think about the traditional agricultural products, it was also important to think about economies of scale, according to the government's strategy. So this was in June this year. The problem is that those countries that have agricultural products to export, when the roof — or meet the wall — in Norway, as soon as the volume is of a certain size. When Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre signed the declaration in December with many other foreign ministers of the World Trade Organisation, the idea must have been that Norway should put in place some concrete measures to follow up that very intention. A statement of intent on a paper does not last as long as the policy does not follow. The background to my raising this question now is not only the customs matter as it lies, and the reactions it has created, but the larger commercial policy picture of Norway's trade with other countries. I have been discussing the question of agricultural products from poor African countries. But it is also about imports, especially of cheese, from the EU – the EU, in particular, is the market from which we import cheese – about the political signal it sends, and not least the fear that it can create counter-reactions. I have seen in several places that representatives of the government believe that it is the opposition in Norway that puts the EU on the idea that they can come up with countermeasures. With all due respect for the opposition on Stortinget – for which I have said that I have deep respect – I believe that the European Union actually came to the conclusion that this could create counter-reactions. It is not because the EU is an irrational player, but it is because the EU also has the opportunity to take countermeasures in sectors of major importance to Norway, such as the United Kingdom. fisheries and aquaculture. In my opinion – just as it would be unwise from our point of view – I think the European Union also sees it as relatively unwise that Norway has introduced stricter rules on customs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e174	The representative, Eriksen Soreide, addresses a very relevant issue at a time when Europe has been in its worst crisis since World War II — a time when economic activity is still lower than before the financial crisis in many countries. Responsible authorities are striving to find the way out of this crisis, national, regional and global, and to strike the right balance between measures promoting economic discipline and adaptability and measures stimulating activity. One issue that is less focused — fortunately — is measures to limit international trade. The main reason is that today we have a global framework. This has been an effective buffer against uncontrolled protectionism. As the interpellant said, the generations before us have experienced what can happen in a world without robust rules of play, without good arenas for cooperation and without mechanisms for resolving conflicts. Even before World War II was over, a new global cooperation architecture was under way. In the field of trade, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, came into force in 1947. Since then, GATT has been further developed into the World Trade Organisation, with 157 members representing 97 pst. of world trade. For almost 65 years, this regime has helped prevent and prevent trade conflicts from coming out of control. Hardly ever before has this regime been subjected to a tougher test than in recent years. A recent WTO report shows that, since 2008, restrictive measures of a different nature have been put in place affecting around 3 pst. of world trade. This is worrying, but given the dramatic backbone, it is very important that the world community has so far been able to prevent an uncontrolled escalation in the protectionist direction. In other words, the trade regime has passed the test so far. At the same time, an enlarged WTO agreement, a conclusion of the Doha Round, would be of great importance in meeting the global economic challenges. Norway has been actively working for this, but unfortunately the prospects are poor. The world has changed a lot since 2001. Changes in trade policy power, an increasingly complex agenda and persistent disagreement between the major commercial policy acts – new and old – mean that the prospects are unfortunately poor. At the same time, the WTO is important, not least as a stronghold against economic nationalism, protectionism, in times of crisis. The increasing number of new members of the WTO, China and Russia, among others, has increased the importance of the organisation in this way. Again, Norway is an active member, both as a supporter and using the WTO dispute mechanisms – the panel mechanism – in concrete trade policy conflicts. The WTO was meeting at the ministerial meeting last December. Attention was focused on the economic situation and the role of the WTO in this context. It was not then possible to see the end of the Doha round. However, despite the turbulent rampart, the Member States agreed on a political declaration. It underlined the importance of the multilateral trading system, the importance of economic growth, employment and development, and pointed to the key role played by the WTO in the fight against protectionism. In addition, Norway joined a group of 49 countries which supported a bulwark of strong warnings against resorting to protectionist measures in a difficult economic time. The call contains an obligation to refrain from introducing new barriers to trade in goods and services. It promises to show maximum restraint against introducing measures that may have a significant protectionist effect. Norway’s connection to this propaganda was – and is – natural, given how our own growth, prosperity and well-being are closely linked with our close ties to the outside world. The multilateral trading system has served us well, not only as a protection against the most powerful right and protectionism, but also as a platform for growth and well-being. Norway has, as you know, a very open economy. The interpellant asks what the government has done to follow up this propaganda. The answer follows from what I have pointed out: Our main protection against protectionism is the global trade regime anchored in the WTO. The most important thing we can do is to support, further develop and strengthen this regime. This work is a high priority for the government. The WTO has been seen in recent years as synonymous with the Doha negotiations. Less attention has been paid to the regular activities of the organisation. However, the crisis has raised the self-value of the legislation itself. The role of the WTO as a defence against protectionism – regardless of the Doha Round – has come to the fore. That's good. It has now gone over a decade since the world's second largest economy, China, joined the WTO. There is little doubt that the fact that Western countries in economic decline and China are participants in the same trade regime has contributed to subverting the demands for protectionist measures with potentially unpleasant political overtones. In order for the WTO to remain relevant and effective, the system must be maintained and maintained. The role of the WTO in monitoring developments in world trade and in the trade policy of each country is central in this context. Norway therefore attaches great importance to the active use of its regular bodies and instruments. We actively monitor the compliance of other countries with the legislation. We regularly address specific problems encountered by Norwegian exporters in other countries. We are also careful to comply with the legislation itself, and it is not appropriate for the government to go beyond our trade policy commitments. For example, the proposal to convert to a percentage duty for certain agricultural products is an opportunity that we have within the framework of our commitments in the WTO. Of course, we have assessed this issue in the light of our overall trade policy interests, which I pointed out in several articles in the Stortingen last week. I just remind you that the argument then, which is now, is that we went from the dollar to the dollar because the fixed toll of six concrete toll lines had given less and less protection because the crown value was equal, so it wasn't a constant, but a falling protection, and it was approaching a situation where these products would be extracted from the east of the EU. We corrected it by using the right we have to go from centimetres to percentage inches. Norway is at the forefront of transparency — the rules in force in Norway — and of making us open to a critical review of our own policies. We are also actively involved in discussions on how to improve and streamline the daily work of the organisation. The fact that Norway's ambassador to the WTO now holds the position of head of the WTO General Council shows that we have great respect for the work of the organisation. Norway has in a few cases taken steps to make use of the WTO dispute resolution system. This system is essential for the regulatory impact. We also actively participate as a third party in a number of disputes – not necessarily because we take sides with one of the parties, but because we are interested in the correct interpretation of the rules and the effective functioning of the dispute resolution system. Maintenance is not sufficient for the system to remain relevant in a developing world. That's why it's very unfortunate that the Doha Round has stopped. The system needs to be developed further – not least in order to become a better instrument to support the integration of developing countries into the world economy. In my view, Norway has been a constructive player in the Doha negotiations, both to safeguard our own interests and to support the interests of developing countries, and especially of the poorest countries. Just because we value the system so high, Norway has always been committed to finding solutions, both in areas where we have offensive interests, in areas where we have defensive interests, and where we have no direct interests. Despite our relatively limited importance in the world economy, we see Norway being invited into key discussions and discussions, precisely because we are a respected contributor. We're going to keep doing that. The government also contributes to the fight against protectionism by reducing trade barriers other than through the WTO. One example is negotiations on EFTA-wide free trade agreements involving the reduction of trade barriers for both goods and services. Another example is the improvements proposed by the government under the so-called GSP scheme, which means that developing countries will have better access to the Norwegian market for both industrial and agricultural products. As a result, in particular: 29 countries in the lower middle-income group are free to all industrial goods, duty-free for a further 51 agricultural toll lines and 50 pst. a further 15 agricultural products reduction in customs duties. To conclude, the economy of Norway has been, is, and will remain open to the outside world. We are actively working for freer trade. In our foreign and trade policy, we will continue to work with countries that share our views, to prevent a protectionist development. This is the day-to-day work to preserve, strengthen and promote the rule-based global trading system anchored in the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e241	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It's always interesting to discuss trade policy issues, and I also think it's good to hear that the government seems to have clicked on what's happening with the Doha Round – or what's not happening right now, but hopefully will lead to a conclusion. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned inter alia: the need to adjust customs duties because of the ever-increasing protection afforded by the Kronotoll. In order to give some examples of what the increased customs rates will lead to, we used to have around 20-50 pst. of the purchase price as a customs duty on cheese. Now that rate of duty will be between 233 and 277 pst. It is a relatively substantial increase. I'll probably go as far as to call it more than an adjustment, that's a big increase. On the biff, the new tariff becomes 344 pst., and the consumer price of imported beef increases by 78 pst. That's big numbers. I am not a moment in doubt that it makes sense for Norway to have a certain level of import protection. There's a full consensus on that in this room. The question is just how far it will go and how far it will go at the expense of imports, or then exports, from countries where the situation is quite different from our own. It is also about timing: at what time will the desire to increase customs duties in Norway? In my opinion, you can also ruin it in two important keywords: One is solidarity with countries that are significantly worse off than we are in the critical phase we are in now. If Norway wanted to adjust the rate of duty because the krona duty gave less protection, then the question is: What time is it going to be at: at a time when Europe is the most in crisis, or at a time when it is at a different time? It's about solidarity. The second is the question of intentions, and perhaps especially in relation to Article 19 of the EEA Agreement and the declaration of intent signed by Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre in December. Again, no one doubts for a moment that Norway has the right to do what we are doing now. The question is – timingly and politically – how wise it is, and whether it does not actually conflict with the intentions of the agreements we have concluded. The strongness of the responses of the EU team was only to be expected. At the same time, I believe it is quite unlikely that the European Union should act as an irrational actor in this context. But I think the EU is going to use the means and mechanism on its part to show that they are serious about trade being as free and open as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e258	First of all, I would like to say how pleased I am that there is such a broad consensus on the main lines of trade policy that we hear here, and secondly, I am very pleased that it has now become so clear, also from the Right, that this is not a breach of the formal rules that we are included in. At the beginning of this debate one could get the impression that it was almost a trade policy shift, and that we were subjected to violent counter-reactions by almost breaking both the EEA Agreement and the WTO. It's been subdued, and it's probably now subdued to the point that there's only questions of some kind of intention. There is then a point to remember that of 1100 product descriptions or agricultural toll lines, there is an adjustment or change of six of these toll lines, and this occurs at the same time as the EU duty-free cheese quota is extended from 4700 tonnes to 7200 tonnes. So it's only after that quota is met that this customs duty will enter. So it's important to see the proportions in this. So I think it might be good to remember that it's about a few specific products, which are not necessarily made in the poorest Member States of the European Union – to say that, but to a greater extent, in our nearest neighbouring country. This is mostly about some fixed volumes made in Norway, which are actually important — as was well reported in the debate last week — and a rather central support bar too much of the agricultural production we have in Norway. I would also like to repeat something I said last week, which is that I am a major supporter of European integration and have great sympathy for the European Union. It is not primarily the common agricultural policy that has made me enthusiastic about the European Union, and I have no very great need for the European Union to teach us how to deregulation in the field of agriculture, because if there is something we have in common with the European Union, it is that we have a significant protection duty on the outside world and significant subsidies, it is just that our level of subsidies is higher than that of the European Union. So structurally we're pretty similar, and we're making an adjustment within a main track. It is also necessary to recall that exports of agricultural products from the EU to Norway have increased sharply. It has increased by 150 p.m. over the last decade, while exports of agricultural products from Norway to the EU have increased by only 45 p.m.. So the liberalisation that has taken place has clearly been in the favour of the European Union. That's okay, but then there's room to make an adjustment. I would be pleased if this debate on the Right in the case of – against assumption – a change of government would actually reverse this, and whether it is such that one could now say clearly that one would reintroduce the krona to the same customs duty as was, if one were to have occasion for the next year. I think a lot of voters, not least in the agricultural industry, want to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e269	The representative, Eriksen Soreide, said a few things in the debate that I very much agreed with. The first thing she said – summarised briefly – was that it doesn't hold in fine words, but that it's action that's important. I can say that I fully agree with that. The representative Eriksen Soreide also asked if it was wise policy to change the cheese toll from the dollar to the dollar. Then I want to answer that for the Labour Party and the Red-Green Government, the answer is yes. That's exactly why we're doing it. After all, the debate on the change in customs duties on certain agricultural products has been unbelievably bloated, and the consequences are being overdrafted. At first, it was the EU's response to the trade in fish that got involved in the debate. Now, like the entire WTO free trade regime, this has great consequences. Yes, even the financial preconditions for combating the financial crisis are being drawn in as a factor in this debate. I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative Eriksen Soreide thinks Norway has a very important role to play in foreign and trade policy, but it may be possible to ask for a certain degree of soberness when it comes to the kind of consequences this will have for world trade and the fight against the economic crisis in Europe and in the world. I want to take up some of the things that the representative Eriksen Soreide brought up. Firstly, the Norwegian customs tariff comprises about 1 100 customs lines in the agricultural sector. The amendment proposed in the budget concerns six of the customs lines. So the first question to the Right is: Does the Right mean this is a dramatic change and a continuous change in the customs tariff? The other thing that Eriksen Soreide was about, which I want to record, is the import of beef from developing countries. There's just a separate allowance for that. It is about twice as large as today's imports. I would also like to say that for the Workers' Party it is of course an important matter to follow. If that limit is reached, of course, it's important to see if it's large enough. But at least in relation to today's imports of beef, that quota is big enough. The special arrangements for duty-free imports of a total of 3 700 tonnes of beef from Botswana, Namibia and Swaziland are not affected by that conversion. I therefore find it very difficult to understand that this can be produced as a dramatic change in Norwegian trade policy. On the contrary, what this is about is to defend Norwegian agricultural policy, and import protection is a central instrument in this respect. I hope that today we can get an answer to the question just asked by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Will the Right and the Advance Party come in a possible new government or in this year's government budget to change the government's customs arrangements for individual agricultural products? We did not receive a response from the representative Fleet last week, nor has the representative Eriksen Soreide said anything about it today. This is an important clarification that Norwegian farmers should receive. The right is talking about the difference between law and politics, and what is politically wise to do. For the Labour Party, at least we are in favour of a regulated trade policy and of a policy both in the WTO and in the EEA where we use our space for action. I also notice that both in the case of the debate on the EEA and working life, which we are going to have after today, and in the case of the customs matter, the Right has not shown itself in any particularly offensive way in defence of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e284	I will be allowed to thank the interpellant for an important interpellation, and I would say that the interpellation has a broad starting point on protectionism in general, and that it goes far beyond the concrete examples that have now been drilled extra in several debates. I would also like to say that I agree with a lot of what the Foreign Minister says, and his general attitude regarding protectionism – that is good. It's a continuation of what his predecessors also stood for. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the EU is not a picture of protectionism, free trade and agricultural policy. There are many things we can agree on. It was very happy last year in Geneva when Norway signed this declaration. It was appreciated by many. Some people in the NGO community were somewhat skeptical, but we can – at least from this side of the political landscape – live well with it. Finally, it seemed that the broader foreign and industrial policy interests were put in front of narrow agricultural interests. In the years I have followed the WTO negotiations and trade policies, there is no doubt that there has been – and is – a constant struggle between different interests. The representative Gustavsen now mentioned meat from Swaziland. What – I would say to some extent unworthy – the game we had around Swaziland for a few years back in the Storting is an example of how these interests come up against each other. Norway submitted development aid to Swaziland to build up their agriculture and be able to export. When the question of exporting to Norway came up, we said no, but after a few rounds everyone realized that this could not continue. So having a coherent policy is important. So that's the question of a new WTO agreement. Optimism is not great. We can hope, but this representative has seen – if not just given up – that we must also seek other tracks, within existing legislation, but also in relation to the free trade agreements mentioned. Norway is seeking to pursue its own interests together with EFTA, and that is good. A target has been to be ahead of the EU in a number of areas, and we have made that clear. At least we should be parallel. I would like to present a challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: there is now an opportunity study in the EU with a view to a free trade agreement with the United States. How far you're going to get with it in terms of realization is very uncertain, but the United States also has some aggressive attitude to put in place new financial agreements. The United States is still the largest economy in the world. If they get past China in a few years, they're going to be no. 2 or 3 in a long horizon. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs proceed to do the same – together with EFTA partners – as is now being done in the EU, and to explore what opportunities are there? Then there is broad support for more trade with developing countries, and there are some minor adjustments in this budget in the GSP scheme. The proceeds of 0,39 pst. the increase in the aid budget. It's very symbolic. Our view is that if we are to achieve a real trade uplift with developing countries, we must give relief to middle-income countries. There may be an engine to increase trade between Norway and many developing countries if that is the real objective. We have long thought that the dual attitude where Norway on the one hand is very offensive in fishing and some services, and on the other hand is very defensive in agriculture, does not serve Norwegian interests in total. When we are then challenged by what we want to do in a new government, I cannot talk on behalf of that government, but we have put forward many proposals on the facilitation of import protection and many proposals for changes to Norwegian agricultural policy, which are available for everyone to go into. So what we stand for in this case, should not be a secret.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e295	Yes, the question of what another government would have done is going to be something like a kind of reverse line of evidence. I don't think anyone in or outside this room has any kind of reason to doubt it – you wouldn't have done the experiment of blowing up the customs duties on cheese and steak, as you just did, in some sort of hope that this would go unnoticed. So it is said from here today that this matter is inflated, and the opposition parties are more than criticized for allowing themselves to point out that there is no very great degree of similarity between life and learning in trade policy, with reference to this example. You might say that this is not a huge example, but you can't fight in international institutions for the dismantling of the trade barriers and then with the left hand do the opposite. I think it will be time to criticise the EU's agricultural policy. The EU is a trading bloc in which Norway has the exclusivity to have access to the EU's internal market, and it is the EU, the European Union, which itself sets rules for trade. Europe, the EU – the European Union – has become a significant trading bloc, matching the United States, matching China, matching India, to the joy of Norway and our ability to send it all the essentials of what we produce from goods and services, into the internal market, without customs barriers. So the question is, are you changing trade policy? Is this a breach of Norwegian trade policy? No, no one on the Right has ever claimed this, but we have pointed out the regrettable lack of connection between life and learning. Today, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs indicates that the EU has increased its exports of agricultural products to Norway, it is interesting to see the difference in offensive and defensive interests. One forgets on the move, deliberately, that a few years ago Norway sent 50 000 tonnes of salmon into the European market. Today, the figure is likely to be between 700,000 and 800000 tonnes — a vastly larger export of food from Norway to the EU than vice versa. This is what's the point of this case, that there's context. As some former Prime Minister put it, everything is related to everything. Nor should we forget that in this debate. Norway has ample experience in what it means to challenge trading systems. Experience from the United States, penal customs duties on Norwegian salmon, on Norwegian fish. We have it in countless examples from the EU, where Norwegian fishing industry has been hit – minimum price regime, criminal duty, feed quota introduction, etc. Anti-dumping is a well-known term. Therefore, the Norwegian fishing industry should also have been spared the criticism that has come from the government parties when it has been allowed in cautious terms to remind itself that this is going to be wrong – this may have a negative impact on the market. Right has greater faith, probably, that trade and development are linked to democracy as a basis for creating growth and development also in the poor part of the world. But it is obvious, at a time when the financial crisis is affecting other countries far more than the country that is still resting on the green branch, that it is taking action to fix ideas that protection is nearby. We see trade systems being challenged at a time when unemployment and economic stagnation are allowed to develop. Therefore, there should be a clear link between the policies pursued by Norway in the main institutions, for example: in the World Trade Organisation and the negotiating rounds carried out there. You have to have a relationship between life and learning, and I think we all in the long run will be able to contribute to building customs and trade barriers even in the practical everyday life in the exercise of Norwegian policy at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e310	The centre party is too regulated trade policy, and we are dealing with existing agreements such as the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement. The opinion of Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre at that time is a political statement that warns against new trade-restrictive measures in today's difficult economic situation leading to increased protectionism. However, the appeal does not alter the legal autonomy of the countries in relation to WTO legislation. The countries behind the uproar promise to show restraint in the introduction of new measures that can have a significant protectionist effect. It is important to note that the call for action concerns new measures and therefore does not prevent Norwegian authorities from continuing to pursue Norwegian interests under existing legislation. We do not deny the possibility of using the action space that is within the existing WTO agreement in terms of percentage duty/krono customs. The right hand and the right hand side often insinuate that they believe that the Norwegian protection of imports of agricultural products is protectionist. The ideal seems to be the EU in many cases. But are EU countries free from protectionism towards Norway, vis-à-vis other trading partners, vis-à-vis developing countries? No, the EU uses the same protectionist instruments as Norway to use its own agricultural production, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also pointed out here. For example, customs loads increase with the degree of processing of fishery products. It provides jobs and value creation in EU countries that we then miss in Norway, which is more likely to remain a commodity exporter. For example, the customs duties are nearly sixfold if you are to export smokey salmon over fresh or frozen salmon. It is not least the industry in Denmark that benefits. I also note that the Right, in its alternative state budget, proposes that the Government's proposal to impose a percentage duty on some agricultural products be reversed. That's at least what I've seen. The reason is that the Right believes it is wrong for Norwegian consumers to pay more for the products. The right also believes that this is a bad trade policy towards our neighbouring countries, EU countries and third-world countries. What the right really does is to give priority to the EU food industry in front of Norwegian farmers and the Norwegian food industry. That is the consequence of the draft budget and the opinion of the Right in this matter. The world is served by open and predictable trading systems, which Norway has worked hard for during the Doha negotiations in the WTO. Together with the EU, Norway has also worked hard on solutions to maintain farming in countries with difficult production conditions. The interpellant also mentions Article 19 of the EEA Agreement and the negotiations there, but I would like to stress that Article 19 says more than what the interpellant points to. It says that it should be based on a balanced development in trade, but the fact is that developments have been unique in the favour of the EU and Norway’s disfavor. The interpellant mentions the gradual liberalisation, but it clearly underlines that Article 19 also states that this should be done within the respective agricultural policy of the parties. Why does the interpellant underline an important point that we must take into account both the EU's and Norway's agricultural policy when negotiating? That is what Norway has done. We agreed with the EU in January 2010 on a new Article 19 agreement. That gives me sessions of allowances. As an example, I would like to end by stressing that, before the weekend, the State's agricultural administration closed auctions on next year's duty-free allowances for most agricultural products. The result was a price increase of about 50 øre per kilo of imported cheese. It's an increase of less than 2.1 pst. from last year and approximately at the same level as the general price increase. This shows that the tariff quotas we have set up with the EU provide a good response to the need for exports of cheese to Norway. It takes care of both our interests and those of the EU, and there is no need to take the scareshoots from the right seriously in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e331	What gives cause for concern, and which has probably also been used by the interpellant as its reason for promoting the interpellant, is that the government lacks consistency between the argument and the conclusion. We are all excited when the Foreign Minister talks about the agreement on trade policy lines for free trade, which provides economic growth, prosperity and prosperity. It could have been cut out of the Progress Party program. But then comes the conclusion: customs duties on exports from the EU to Norway are increasing on a given product type. This means, therefore, that the conclusion of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that free trade is very fine things – provided it does not affect Norwegian producers. There is no major change when you convert from a dollar to a percentage point — provided that you keep the customs rate at a reasonable level. It's not the change in itself and the amount of it in dollars or volumes that worry. This is the political signal that Norway is increasing its trade barriers to our closest partners, which are suitable for concern. In the EU, the cheese industry is of great importance. In the EU, they are proud of their products, and they want to export them, and Norwegian consumers want to buy them. In this way, the EU generates export revenues, which they can once again use to import goods of which there is not so much — at least not enough — in the EU, for example. oil, gas or fish, which is the Norwegian export industry. This is linked to the fact that if we start first, we risk leading to the fall of the dominoes, the introduction of individual measures – which are small and insignificant in themselves – and a more protective Europe and more difficult conditions for the Norwegian export industry. This is a bold and completely unnecessary measure, which can lead to countermeasures, which can severely affect Norway. There are many politicians from red-green parties who have already praised the rule-driven world trade in this debate, and there is probably no one in this Chamber who believes that we should not have a rule-driven world trade, but regulation is the opposite of free trade. This means that the more regulation you get, and the more excited you are about it, the harder it becomes for free trade to work. Therefore, some of us are concerned about the political signals that the government gives when dealing with the legislation that gives Norway the right to have a percentage duty instead of a krona dollar. It is an unfortunate development, and it can have serious consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e344	I think it's worth remembering the most important thing first: the world has undergone a formidable increase in wealth over the last 100 years. The countries that have come out the best are those with the most open economy, and that use trade to the greatest extent possible. The countries where we now see that tens of millions of people are working out of poverty are precisely those who are opening up their economies and taking more part in world trade than they have done before. There is a clear link between economic growth, trade and development. Human rights is a fundamental pillar of the Higher Development Policy. Together with trade and economic growth, human rights lay the basis for development. At the same time, I think it is worth remembering that development policy must be far more than aid policy. To achieve the objectives of development policy, different instruments need to be seen in the context, and there are specific requirements for the formulation of national policies. Coordination is an important step in a country's trade and development policy, and the Right wants an open trade policy. We believe that trade is an important key to creating. Through its negotiating positions, Norway must contribute to the achievement of the objectives we set – including for development policy. A little story: In the United States not many years ago, there was a massive pressure to save the American steel industry. Congress gave in to the pressure, but the effect of the rescue measures and protectionism of the US steel industry was massive industrial death in the car industry and job losses in a number of times the size of those who were able to save in the short term in the steel industry. It's short-term, and what this example shows is that an open economy is far better equipped, overall, to meet the challenges you face. At the same time, it is important to say that trade policy is also about safeguarding consumer interests. When the foreign minister now talks about adjusting from a place between 20 and 50 pst. customs duties on cheese up to between 233 and 277 pst. customs, it is not an adjustment for me, but it must be in the foreign minister's more refined vocabulary. For me, it is about effectively shutting some goods out of the Norwegian market, and effectively preventing Norwegian consumers from getting hold of these goods. The same thing happens when you increase the customs duty on some steak products to 344 pst. I need to get into a moment that has not been mentioned so far. It is about bilateral investment agreements – BITs – which are important to stimulate foreign investment in developing countries. A BIT is a treaty between two sovereign States to facilitate investment between countries and ensure minimum protection of investments. The BIT provides for fair and fair treatment of investments, the right to the free movement of capital, that direct or indirect expropriation should not be effected without legal or immediate, adequate and effective compensation, and that the investment should not be subject to conditions worse than those imposed by other countries. Right is a proponent for putting in place more of these agreements. Among other things, we need a BIT agreement with India. I would ask the Foreign Minister to comment on this and the importance of BIT agreements, because it is now evident that political dissatisfaction among several red-green parties when it is claimed that this type of agreement, which ensures investment, but which refers problems to international arbitration courts, challenges the right of self-determination. They are important for creating more trade and greater capital flows, and they should be discussed in this debate. I hope the Foreign Minister will comment on this at the end. So the Central Party's fraction is exactly right when he says that the Right will reverse the transition from the centimetre to the percent inches. Yes, we prioritise – we prioritise Norwegian consumer interests, and we prioritise Norwegian exports. We keep the principles high and work for a freer trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e364	I would also like to thank you for an important inter-pelling debate on trade rules, the international crisis and protectionism. Even before the end of World War II, an agreement was made in Bretton Woods, U.S.A., because one had to rebuild here after a terrible war. We were given the basis for the international institutions, then called the IMF and the World Bank, and it was said that a gradual facilitated trade between countries. It was absolutely necessary to create safer and more positive conditions for the many people who suffered material distress after World War II. It was therefore appropriate, an important and a maritime legislation that was agreed upon. This developed, and in the 1990s, one from General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, i.e. the GATT Agreement, went to the World Trade Organization – one went from an agreement to an organization in terms of trade. It became a stronger regulation, and the legislation was based on a very strong ideology. One went over from – what should a call it – a utility of more a theoretical ideology that it frees up its better trade, which leads to greater security for humans. This ideology evolved further, and not least the International Monetary Fund saw the vulnerability of ideology. They saw that it could give rise to demanding situations, and they tried to build up systems of early warning and full transparency, i.e. monitoring countries, to mitigate what they saw as the risk in this freest-possible ideology. We know the result: these risk mitigation measures worked too poorly, to put it diplomatically. The result failed. The best example is the International Monetary Fund, where there is a great deal of instability. The consequence was that at the end of the year, the nation states had to take responsibility for the international situation that one came up with. The crisis developed so far that the economic capacity of several national states was exhausted. That is why we are now in a situation where we have gone from a financial crisis to a political and social crisis in a number of countries. There are some people who have made a big impression on me, among others. Strauss-Kahn, former head of the International Monetary Fund, who was in R4 a week after Sigbjørn Johnsen joined and gave an hour's talks on the theme of financial crisis and war. I see that several representatives laugh at Strauss-Kahn – you just have to do it. Strauss-Kahn gave there a lecture on the financial crisis and war with reference to the agreement made with Germany after World War I. I want to ask that more people take it to heart: you can push a people into such a load that it leads to bigger problems than that one has an overview of. We are in a deeply serious situation, and this reality is far from many of the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party in this Chamber. That is something I deeply regret. A new debate is therefore needed on the basis of the new realities, a debate on free trade and fair trade. In the 1970s, we had such a debate, where international solidarity in major youth environments was strong, and a discussion then: How can we modernise international legislation to be up-to-date with the challenge we face? It is the debate that is needed – a new ideological debate on the development of future legislation on international trade. If we don't, the option can be much bigger and more demanding than what we have any overview of today. So we have to go from discussing remedial measures – small trucks that constantly need to be replaced by larger trucks in order to correct the collision and accidents that have occurred – to discuss the causes of the problems. The freest trade without international institutions that have the necessary economic muscles to correct the weaknesses is irreconcilable. Every time has its rules – 1947–1980, 1980–2010. We're in a new era. The important debate is how to correct today's trade legislation, and it should be an active participant in Norway and the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e387	I would like to thank you for an interesting and timely fresh debate. That's the way it's supposed to be when there's interpellation debates. I notice that the discussion about this is a bit annoying for some of the government parties' representatives, and then it's very easy, of course, to resort to the message that it's the opposition that blows this up. But it's now that the reactions that we've come up with in terms of percentages have been genuine, and they've been partly strong. Let me just briefly comment on some of the things that have emerged. One is what the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark also said: Those who have read our excellent alternative budget – that is reading, of course, I highly recommend – will see that we want to reverse the decision on percentage duty. It is clear and clear, and it has also been clearly communicated. The same is true of the point that several people have raised here today, namely that no one is questioning Norway's legal right to do what we do. The question is whether the intentions of the agreements and decisions are followed up by doing so. So the representative, Laila Gustavsen, thought it was a little funny to involve the financial crisis. The representative, Lundtigen, said we didn't pull in the financial crisis. So I don't know which leg the government's on here. But now let it be said that the issue of financial crisis in particular draws the World Trade Organisation back as the main reason for the declaration signed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs last December. The fact that the financial crisis is now strong and has a major impact on citizens in very many countries means that protectionist measures must be avoided to improve the situation. Everyone has a role there, including Norway. What we do sends out some political signals, and that gives some economic results. I would also like to make a comment on what Gustavsen says about quotas for beef. The representative says, well, it's important to see if the beef quota is large enough when the quota is reached. Well, all the experience with this government suggests that when the quota is reached, you don't assess whether it's large enough, but when you can stop it so that no more meat is imported from poor countries. The example is sheep meat from Namibia, Botswana and Swaziland. In the 2010 state budget, the government introduced an import restriction of 400 tonnes, precisely because the intention of the Storting and Government to increase imports of sheep meat from these countries worked. Consumers wanted it, they wanted to buy more. But when they reached the roof, they said stop and put a quota limit on the right at the time. It was 1.6 pst. of the total production of sheep meat in Norway, yet it was thought that it would be stopped. The point is to have a relationship between word and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e402	I thank you for a good debate and, in line with what I thought before I came to the House, I note that there is a broad consensus on the WTO acquis, that we should conduct an offensive trade policy and that there is disagreement on six concrete lines in the field of agriculture. That was also my impression last week, so there we have a constant situation. I want to say that Norway is a particularly open economy. We have a particular interest in a regulated international order and a regulated trading system. I disagree with the representative Peter N. Myhre, who says that the rule of law is the opposite of free trade, because I believe that free trade is promoted through clear and clear rules. Pure free trade without any rules is the most powerful right, and not many in Norway – I know – really want. We have been committed to saying in this debate, as in the debate we hold in parallel on the EEA, that we believe in the WTO, we use and strengthen the WTO, we believe in the EEA, we use and strengthen the EEA, and we defend Norwegian interests. Every time we actually do that, the opposition – especially the party Right here in the Chamber – comes and protests against the active use of the space of action we have. Obviously, you'd rather not do that. I would like to comment on the article from the representative Kristiansen. It must be allowed to remind you that almost every country I know has offensive and defensive interests. It's not just Norway. Norway is exporting fish, and we have extensive offensive interests in this area. Norway wants to maintain sustainable agriculture in a country that is both long-term, cold and full of hills and mountains and poor conditions. Then we need protection. That's normal. In Europe’s neighbouring country in North Africa, there are a number of countries that want to export goods they can export to the EU, for example. olives, oranges and a number of other Mediterranean products. They are subject to significant customs duties, and guess why: it is because some EU Member States produce them. We don't have customs on them, we don't produce them. In fact, it's quite normal to have a balance between offensive and defensive interests. So do we. The logic of what we hear from the opposition, can't just be to reverse increased customs duties on some toll lines, it has to be to do something completely different with the entire customs protection in Norway. So to Gitmark's specific question, we're working on a free trade agreement with India. With regard to the question of BITs, I must refer to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade who is holding on to that very thing. But we work too many free trade agreements as part of the general work. Finally, I would like to remind you that what we are doing on cheese is increasing customs duties, but also increasing the duty-free quota. So that means both liberalisation and tightening, depending on how much imports are going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e419	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e435	The EEA Agreement has served Norway very well. It ensures access for our export businesses to an internal market which thus also means viable jobs in Norway. The EU is the most important political and economic community in our part of the world, and the EEA Agreement together with the other agreements we have with the EU – which is also a significant number – is our lifeline to Europe. Let me quote a person who should be known for the government's representatives, Martin Kolberg. He participated in the programme Kristiansen & Strand on 27 October. Then he said very clearly: if the attacks on the EEA Agreement do not stop, it will make us incapacitated by the government. That is quite clearly said, and a rather clear expression of how it is perceived when central parts of the trade movement, the centre party and the SV attack the EEA Agreement so to speak from within and try to get Norway to take out central parts of the agreement. The period of entry into force of the EEA Agreement in Norway has coincided in time with a very positive development for the Norwegian economy, and not least for Norwegian labour. Value added has increased, employment has increased, and Norway’s gross domestic product has increased by almost 50pst since 1994. and GDP of mainland Norway with nearly 60 pst. So it's been a huge development. The EEA Agreement makes us part of a common labour market in Europe with over 250 million employees. Since the enlargement of the EU in 2004, Norway has been one of the countries that have made the most of this because of high levels of labour migration. During the last year alone, seven out of ten new employees have come from countries outside Norway. So you can actually say that very much of the well-being we experience in Norway today, and as we have experienced from developments in the last 20 years, it says from the fact that we are a member of an economic community through the EEA Agreement, that we have access to labour – that is absolutely crucial. In the field of working life, most EU rules on the working environment and workers’ rights have been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The agreement ensures safe framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises and workers. We are also free to decide our own rules, for example. in areas such as the working environment, equality, labour market policy, pension and social policy, social policy and integration policies. It gives us a significant space for action within the contract work. The EU can also adopt minimum rules here, but we are free to have stricter rules. We've taken advantage of that. We have seen that the directives can be adapted to Norwegian conditions. We saw that, among other things. in the work on the temporary agency directive earlier this year, where Stortinget adopted a package of measures. In particular, the common legislative framework has strengthened the rights of workers in the context of the situation before the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. At the same time, earnings levels in Norway have grown much faster than in our neighbouring countries. What would be the consequence of taking work out of the EEA Agreement? Well, as the Right sees it, it will mean a full renegotiation of Norway's agreements with the EU under the EEA Agreement, and that would result in a free trade agreement. The agreement as of today does not have mechanisms to take individual parts out of it. So that means you get a full renegotiation of the entire agreement. It will have immediate consequences for Norwegian enterprises, for jobs and thus also for Norwegian welfare. A free trade agreement will also have a good deal of consequences, and I'll mention someone here. The harmonised legislation we have spent years building up will disappear. Principle of free movement of, inter alia: services in the EEA will not necessarily be provided by a free trade agreement. Termination of the EEA Agreement will require Norway to negotiate free trade agreements with the Commission and with individual Member States. Common regulation in the EEA in specific service sectors will disappear. In short, a free trade agreement is something quite different from full participation in the EU's internal market, and will bring about a marked deterioration in Norwegian working life. This will in a way mean that we are turning back at 20 years in time and giving up the rights we have acquired as equivalent economic partners in European cooperation. Switzerland has been mentioned by many as a possible solution. To say that Switzerland has what you might call a patchwork of agreements with the EU, actually 120 in the number, and they have taken a long time to negotiate. On top of that, the EU wants to get rid of the kind of agreements Switzerland has, because it is not appropriate for the EU, and it is also not very appropriate for Switzerland. The EU, especially in its present phase, has very little interest in allowing countries to operate in the same way as Switzerland has done through its agreements, and also has little interest in allowing countries to operate with what is well-known in Norwegian as the ‘cherry picking’ of the parts of the agreement that best suit them. If there is one thing that the Committee often meets with representatives of the EU or politicians in Europe, it is precisely the point that the EEA Agreement and the EU are increasingly characterised by more and more homogeneity. Everyone has to follow the same rules. It is simply because the European Union is an economic and political community that is paving the way forward and that does not necessarily have time to keep up with everything that is on the side of regulatory adaptations. Over the years, we have been perceived as a duty-fulfilling and serious actor against the EU. But I think that a termination of the agreement by taking out the labour market and demanding a renegotiation would cause some wonder at our trading partners. The major investigation into Norway’s relationship with the EU and the agreements has brought together some considerations on how Norway’s agreements with the EU are perceived in Europe. That's pretty interesting reading. Some may consider Norway to be a near-member without political influence. Others are somewhat envious and believe that Norway is in a special position. In the United Kingdom, there is a lot of talk about the EU. There has also been a debate on the United Kingdom’s form of association with the EU. On this occasion, Prime Minister David Cameron said last autumn that leaving the EU is not in their national interest. Outside, they will end up as Norway – subject to all internal market rules but without power to form the same rules. I am, like the British Prime Minister, a member of the European Union because I realize that the democratic deficit by not being a full member is a problem. But all the time we're not a member – unfortunately, there's not a big current issue – I think we should do everything we can to preserve the EEA agreement that actually guarantees us both access and gives us the opportunity we've had to build up our well-being. In particular, it has been in recent months that the major discussion of taking part in the EEA Agreement out of it, or of voting against the individual directives and using the right of reservation, has become strong. In the half-yearly statements on the EU and EEA matters that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has here in the Chamber, the Right was accused six months ago of talking down the EEA Agreement because we point out some of the political and democratic challenges that are there, by adopting a large set of rules that we do not sit around the table and agree to adopt. I would like to say that a bigger problem than that some people point to the obvious weaknesses and shortcomings of that side of the EEA Agreement is that the government parties, and perhaps especially the Workers' Party, have not talked about the EEA Agreement and thus made many forces both in the trade union movement and among the government partners relatively free to act in the way they have done. There is a lot to say about the EEA Agreement. As I said, it is an agreement that has served us very well, and that is going to continue to serve us very well all the time we don't have a full membership. It will have its faults and defects. It would also have had EU membership. But I believe that the consequence of now asking for a full renegotiation of the EEA Agreement is almost not to be overlooked for a country like Norway, with a fully open economy – as we discussed in the previous interpellation debate – and a full dependence on the EU internal market, which is close to 80pst. of our exports go. Therefore, it is also important to clarify what the Foreign Minister considers to be the consequences of taking employment out of the EEA Agreement. I believe that this is an important communication to avoid creating further uncertainty about both government policy and the consequences for Norwegian working life, for Norwegian workers and for Norwegian welfare if you take out employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e475	I would like to start by saying that if at any time there was any uncertainty about this issue, it was clearly clarified last week when we had both a presentation and a presentation debate here in the hall. If there was one thing I took out of that debate, it's that the EEA agreement stands firm in Norway. There is a very broad consensus on it, and it is entirely inappropriate to choose a weaker form of association with the EU than the EEA Agreement. There is also an important point in the context of the fact that Switzerland does not have a free trade agreement but a comprehensive agreement covering many of the same areas as the EEA Agreement does, but in a way that does not provide for the same legal access as the EEA Agreement. I don't think it's a current policy. At least there is no current policy for this government. I would also like to remind the interpellant that, on the other hand, the Progress Party has a formulation in its programme that they wish to renegotiate the EEA Agreement. I therefore believe that in any conversation about a possible civil government, insofar as there is a need for such a thing, it might be wise to have a conversation with them about the insight the representative Eriksen Soreide now shared with us. The back cover for this discussion is related to working life and the EEA. In many European countries, this has become a central issue. We see a Europe unbalanced, with large public deficits, rising unemployment and growing social unrest. The measures taken by some countries to address these challenges, put worked-up rights and welfare systems under pressure. Then it's natural that both people and governments become alarmed. At home, we also face challenges in parts of Norwegian working life, with fear of social dumping and low-wage competition. This concern is real. The government shares the concerns of an overall trade union movement in this respect. To the very question of the solution to these challenges is to take employment issues out of the EEA Agreement, the government’s starting point as stated is clear and clear: there is no current policy. We believe that the framework we have today serves Norwegian interests well – including in the field of working life. Norway is an integral part of the internal market, which requires the free movement of goods, services, capital and persons. It is not possible to imagine Norway opting for one of these four freedoms. The EEA is about linking to four freedoms, not to one, two or three freedoms, nor is that desirable. 80 pst. of our exports to the EU. That's a good 87 pst. of all registered work immigrants come from EU countries. It has contributed to increased activity and profitability in business, and it contributes to jobs and the security of the welfare country. During the nearly 19 years that the agreement has worked, the Norwegian working life model has been successful. In the NOU 2012 public inquiry: 2, outside and inside, a separate chapter is dedicated to the labour and labour market. It says, among other things. the following: The period, i.e. evolution since 1994, 'has been characterised by positive developments in investment, employment, unemployment, pay and working conditions and the collective agreement. Cooperation between the social partners and the authorities has continued, the front-line model for negotiations has been strengthened and the rights of workers have been improved in important areas.» I share this assessment. It is clear that a number of directives have also given Norwegian workers better rights. In some cases, social partners – those involved in the social dialogue with the EU – have agreed on agreements that become EU directives. It is natural to consider this social dialogue as part of the work area of the EEA Agreement. It is also the case that the EU-designed labour law covers everything from health, environmental and safety rules to labour law and equal pay and non-discrimination rules. Most of the time, we're talking about minimum regulation. Norway can therefore, as a general rule, have a higher level of protection. Nor should we forget that the EEA Agreement also provides Norwegian workers with the same free access to the labour market in Europe as EU citizens. They have access to social benefits, the right to the recognition of professional qualifications and the coordination of social security rights. Similarly, Norwegian businesses and their employees have the freedom to provide services in the other EEA countries under the same conditions as on-site establishments. By participating in this framework, of which the work area is an integral part, we also take our share of the responsibility to contribute to development in Europe. Norway has – and shall have – a concrete and joint commitment to the common European challenges. Europe is our continent, and we cannot shut ourselves out of Europe's challenges. As I have said, these are challenges in Norwegian working life. Therefore, the government is very committed to ensuring good standards for working life and employee rights in the internal market. Working life and well-being are one of the key priorities of the government’s European policy. We place decisive emphasis on ensuring a clean working life. Protecting workers' rights is a very high priority. It's important to us nationally and in the work we do internationally. The challenges of social dumping have met with two action packages since 2005. Now we're discussing a new package. A decent working life is also an important objective of our EU/EEA cooperation. We are actively promoting Norwegian views here. In other words, we use the space for action to influence processes in the EU at the earliest possible time – and to influence legislation that is relevant for inclusion in the EEA Agreement. As we say in the message we discussed last week: we're going to do this even more and even better in the future. We must not forget here that the desire to defend workers' rights is also strong in the EU. Not long ago, the European Commission had to draw up the so-called Monti II Regulation on the relationship between the right to collective action and economic freedoms. This proposal met with great resistance from several teams, including European trade union movements and twelve national parliaments. There was a real fear that this could limit the collective rights. This resistance was a position shared by the Norwegian authorities. We are therefore not alone, if anyone would believe it, but we have many allies in the European Union in this important effort to safeguard the interests of employees. The Government is committed to ensuring the continuation of the Norwegian working life model. This includes, inter alia: the continuation of tripartite cooperation and the maintenance of pay and working conditions for workers in the cross-border establishment and provision of services. It involves the protection of collective rights, including the right to strike. It is important to bear in mind that we have continued the main features of the Norwegian model of statutory and contractual regulation, wage formation, party cooperation and labour market policy since 1994 – when the EEA Agreement came into force. The Government will continue to make use of the possibilities and scope of action available for the implementation of the EEA acquis in Norway in order to contribute to the smooth functioning of the internal market, and to respond to the Norwegian model of employment, business needs and Norwegian value creation. In order to conclude clearly and clearly: Taking employment issues out of the EEA Agreement is evident from the picture I have drawn, which is politically out of date for this government. This would be contrary to the principles of the EEA Agreement on common rules. We would meet with little political understanding in our neighbouring countries and in the EU in order for Norway — and especially in a situation where many countries are experiencing a deep economic crisis — to take out key parts of the EEA Agreement. It would make it more difficult for our European trading partners to fit into our Norwegian market. And economically, it would weaken the framework conditions within which Norwegian businesses work — and on which Norwegian workers depend. In fact, in legal terms, it would open up – as the interpellant points out – a renegotiation of the whole EEA. Such an approach would jeopardise the EEA Agreement. It was negotiated in due course by 12 EU countries and six — after every seven — EFTA countries, giving a relatively good and balanced result. Today — with 27 EU countries and 3 EFTA countries, the latter being among the richest countries in Europe — the strength ratio, to say the least, has been substantially altered. The solution is therefore to seek to strengthen the rights of workers in Norway and to work actively in the European political space to help ensure that the same is the case there. Often the answer is found in Norwegian interventions, e.g. as regards labour supervision and enforcement of existing rules in the Norwegian market, rather than trying to take this part out of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e547	I thank the Minister for a clear and unambiguous answer. It was a post that I felt so comfortable at home that I could say that it kept going. There was a warm defence for the EEA Agreement, and there was also a clear rejection of the attacks on the EEA Agreement, represented by taking out work. I am recording what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that the EEA Agreement is tight and that it is completely inappropriate to choose a weaker connection. I also record what he says that taking employment questions out would be politically out of date, contrary to the legislation and encountering little political understanding. It's reassuring to hear. I just hope that the same message will also be sent to the two parties in the government, who are now in the programme process towards the choice of programme fixing quite different things from the fact that the EEA Agreement stands firm. I also hope that there is a clear message for the LO Congress, where a majority of the representatives may adopt the wording for the removal of working life from the EEA Agreement. It's these things that help create the uncertainty. The draft programme of the SV provides for Norway to enter into negotiations with the EU on a less extensive trade and cooperation agreement that replaces the current EEA Agreement. What the Foreign Minister is now saying is that this is completely out of date. He also says that this is something that will conflict with the legislation and meet with little political understanding. On its side, the party has stated that they ‘recognize the basis of this government, but not the next’. This means, therefore, that if, contrary to the assumption, this government would continue in the 2013 election, Norwegian voters cannot be sure that the government wants to continue the EEA Agreement. Central sources both in the SV and in the Center Party go open and say that you want this to be a negotiating point in any government negotiations. It is precisely this uncertainty that makes it necessary to raise this inter-pelling debate. I am very pleased with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says. It has my full and wholehearted support, and is an important clarification from the Labour Party. But there is still an uncertainty when two of the government parties consider something quite different. It is also an uncertainty that central forces in the trade movement also have a different view. There is still a good time left for the elections, and there are many programmes to be created, but there is a need to clarify whether this is something that will stand out at any – albeit unlikely – continuation of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e562	I understand that the representative Eriksen Soreide is disappointed that there is no more dispute than there is. I would recommend a reading of the entire debate last week, as it was very clearly stated – for example. by the representative, Mr Brerk, that the agreements have been concluded. I perceive that this debate was in many ways the country last week. I would remind you that the government states in its first declaration of accession, the Soria Moria Platform, that we are ruling on the basis of the EEA. It was clearly also in advance, when the three parties applied for a majority. We said the same thing in the current government platform. And we submitted a message a month ago that once again confirms that we are both in the EEA, that we believe that the EEA works well, and that we are going to use it more actively. So it's like neither I nor anyone else is giving a message to LO about what LO is supposed to mean. But we have a good dialogue with LO on these issues, because we believe that the concern is real. Although I say and believe strongly that the principles and rules of Norwegian working life have been good since 1994, it is that when a Norwegian transport worker sees a Romanian colleague driving with summer tyres on winter driving, sleeping in the car and serving significantly less, he has a real concern that needs to be taken seriously. Therefore, we want to address these issues, not through renegotiation or EEA outsourcing, but through an increasingly active work against social dumping. Labour immigration has served Norway very well. There would have been a significant imbalance in the Norwegian economy if we did not have an easy access through the EEA Agreement to qualified labour for Norway at a time when there was more demand than labour supply. But it comes with some costs. Those costs are less than the benefits, but they must be addressed. This is why government policies are general in this area: a strong stepping up of efforts to promote labour rights, participation in negotiation processes, avoiding social dumping, etc. in the EEA and in Norway. What could have been interesting to hear – when we now agree that the EEA is on the ground, in addition to an answer as to whether to take the discussion with the Progress Party about their programme point on renegotiation – is what the Right intends to do, not with the EEA Agreement, for we know that, but with questions about labour rights, because some of these discussions in Europe go between the right and the left. This is probably also one of the reasons why Eriksen Soreide's sister party in the United Kingdom is skeptical to the EU, because they think there can be a bit of socialism in what comes from Brussels. Therefore, I would like to hear a little about what the Right believes about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e575	Now that we have a debate on the EEA and working life – a debate we are going to debate – it is a matter of deep concern about the development of parts of Norwegian working life that we are going to take seriously. It's mostly going well in this country. Since the red-greens took over in 2005, we have combined increased growth in employment with the strengthening of workers’ rights – rights that the opposition put at risk. But although the main picture in Norwegian working life is very good, we see that in parts of it it is a brutalization, with the circumvention of labour law and a large amount of social dumping. Half of the active members of the Oslo building department are from Eastern Europe. In the construction industry alone, there are 107 000 workers from the EEA territory. Almost everywhere in most industries throughout the country, we see such a development. These peoples fill a need. They're a prerequisite for the growth we've experienced in recent years, and they're a necessity for us to keep the wheels going. We need these people, we need to thank these people, and they need to be treated on as decent terms as Norwegian workers. The difference between us and the opposition is that we are concerned with all the parts of labour immigration – all the consequences of it, including the less positive ones. The back is, of course, just social dumping, unprofessionalism and breaches of Norwegian standards, which are created in response to the labour force that is used to – and therefore often willing to – working on other conditions, and employers who want to profit as quickly as possible. Me and the Workers' Party are very concerned about what this does, not only with pay and working conditions in the individual construction site or here and now, but also with the Norwegian working life model and our society as a whole in the long term. We share that concern with the trade union movement, which is why this is one of our highest priority tasks. The action against social dumping shall continue to be vigorous. Since we took over in 2005, we've done a lot. We have taken 30 initiatives in this room – and 30 decisions – for a better working life. The right-hand side has voted against most of it. We have implemented two plans against social dumping, which Fafo says have had an effect, and we have launched that until spring comes the third. We act, and we want to go on, because this problem doesn't get any smaller. But this problem, as we see, has nothing to do with the EEA agreement – it has to do with our open economy and our need for labour. The years since 2005 show that there is nothing in the way of action to improve the quality of employment within the EEA framework. Not only is the freedom of action in the EEA great, but EU legislation has also led to better protection and extended rights for Norwegian workers in some areas because it came as a result of a directive on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved. These rights are given permanent protection because they are directive-related – and that is important! The size may not be limited to provisions which impair those rights. It's extremely important – if, at some point, against assumption, we were to have a Right Party government, which we know just want to weaken these rights. We must remember that the labour-related directives, which we may complain at home about not going far enough, have considerably increased the standard in Eastern and Southern Europe. We all deserve to have a common floor. It helps us to maintain our standards, because it reduces the distance between us and other European countries. Take the Working Time Directive: it is a highly controversial directive, and it is up to discussion. It sets a maximum working week limit, regulates rest periods, night work and holidays – 48 hours of work week, it says in the directive. Then some Member States have negotiated an exception of 60 hours. 48 or 60 hours of work week is nothing to cry out for, so what's my point of pulling this up? Well, the point is that if we had not had such a directive, the 60-hour working week or more could be the norm of the majority of EU countries. That is not the reason for the directive. It is an advantage for us that our main trading partners do not have the opportunity to make use of it. British Labour also says that four weeks of holiday had been politically impossible in the United Kingdom today, it would not have been for the directive. So common driving rules, we're all earned. We also see that we are challenged on important parts of our EU system policies. This image is enhanced by the high level and economic crisis in Europe. The problems of social dumping will only be worse. However, taking employment out of the EEA Agreement is not an alternative, nor will it solve any of the problems in Norwegian working life – on the contrary. The solutions are to be a driver and continue with the Labour Party course. We'll call about the deal. We will continue to work to ensure that new EU rules do not put obstacles in the way of measures that Norway has put in place or intend to introduce. A right-hand government knows we won't do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e596	We went through some of these issues relatively thoroughly last week, which was also discussed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But I would like to thank the interpellant for raising another debate on this, because the EEA Agreement is important for Norway – and it will still be. When the Foreign Minister says that we have programmed – or suggested – to renegotiate the agreement, it is not in the text that I am sitting with, and I do not think anyone else in the Progress Party is sitting with such a text. The fact that some members of the Progress Party have made such statements is not the same as that of the Programme. I am fully aware that the vast majority of the Progress Party is in favour of the EEA Agreement and want to maintain the EEA Agreement. But then we point in the program -- that's right -- to challenges in some parts of the area. Other challenges have been highlighted here in this Chamber, in this debate and in the debate last week – and this will be done further. It's about discussing how we use the action space. It is about discussing how we develop a policy in Norway and in Europe, and of course we will also take part in that discussion. We are part of many working groups in Europe – constantly – although we are not a member of the EU. And even if I don't want us to be a member of the EU, we're going to have the active cooperation – the impact – in important areas that matter. I am convinced that Norway's voice is listened to when it is relevant, when we come up with relevant objections, and when we are able to find partners in Europe who share our views in many areas. So things are not hopeless. Putting the deal on the game is not what we want to do. Last week I talked about a review to look at a technical update of the agreement. I mean it could be in its place. But it's not about taking the material content and saying that of the four freedoms and of the internal market, we're just going to pick half or three quarters. It is about looking at the Treaty changes that have been made in the EU since the beginning of the 1990s and until today, the legal basis governing the EEA Treaty and EU cooperation, and whether there are parallel shifts here that make us want to get this more in agreement, so that, for example, we can achieve this. Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian operators and Norwegian persons are judged by the law, on an equal basis. This is precisely a question raised by judges of the EFTA Court of Justice in the past. It's not a hypothetical problem. I don't want to argue in any way, and I don't want to think that if we did it in a proper way, it would put Norwegian jobs at risk if we were to address such challenges and issues. If we didn't get there, I'm convinced that it's best to keep what we have. But an agreement between friends and partners is also to develop when we see the need for it. It is about finding solutions to practical challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e607	If we go back a few years in history, we see that the only thing that was well done before the government change in 2005 was to keep NATO membership and peace the EEA Agreement. I would like to quote former party leader Åslaug Haga from an interview about her book: ‘We had explained very little in advance, we agreed in essence that we should govern on the basis of the EEA Agreement and NATO membership. [[...]] It's almost comical when you look back." Well, I have a clarification for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the rest of the government: the questions about NATO membership and the EEA Agreement are already settled on the non-socialist side, and we say 'yes, thank you both'. The pillars of Norwegian security policy and the Norwegian economy are not rocked by a civil government. However, it is still unclear whether the 2005 clarifications will continue to apply on the red-green side of the policy. The Labour Party, on its own initiative, has barely mentioned the EU or the EEA Agreement in a word in the public debate in recent years. The path has been increasingly left to the no-powers of all three government parties, and we now see the results – as the interpellant has referred to: the infections that government-participating parties and LO have to the EEA Agreement. This is just one side of the case. We have also seen that the government parties have voted in favour of veto in the matter of the Postal Directive. Now we need far from uncritically swallowing everything that comes from Brussels, but there are different ways of dealing with disagreement. There are some battles that are far more important to fight out than others. As the interpellant has also been involved, there is a considerable scope for action in the EEA Agreement, which we could have exploited much better and smarter than has been done during this government. The right is not as happy in all the directives that come from Brussels, but if you have to choose one to fight, well the Postal Directive is far from our first choice. This is frightening, because a very large proportion of the value creation in mainland Norway is entirely dependent on a stable and clear relationship with the EU. When assessing whether to invest or not in the business world, you have horizons that go over the years, and even over the decades, and there is no point in doubting the EEA relationship in the way the government has done. It is also special, because Norwegian workers have not in any way lost their links with the EU through the EEA. We've had a fantastic economic development in the last 20 years, and an equally amazing wage development that has benefited most people in society. At the same time, the framework for Norwegian working life is the same: a largely well-functioning tripartite cooperation based on large, broad and responsible organisations on both sides, and a national labour-environment law provides some basic premise for working life. We have not been prevented from introducing measures against social dumping, such as: generalisation of industries. That's what the Right thinks is good. We want a decent working life with a good framework. It is not right, as the representative of Trettebergstuen says, that we always vote against such measures – far from it. The influence that the EU has had has often been to the benefit of its employees. We saw, for example, in the context of the introduction of the temporary agency directive, the EU pressed for temporary workers to have as good pay and working conditions as permanent workers. Although much can be said about the process, the directive itself was good. Overall, Norway and the Norwegian economy depend on continuing the EEA Agreement as long as we choose to stay outside the EU. It is sad and harmful for the Norwegian economy if the government contributes to continuing to create uncertainty about this agreement. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Minister today says so clearly that it is not appropriate to choose a weaker form of association with the EU than the EEA than to take out the employment policy of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e623	I want to start by saying that it is the organized working life and the professional movement that have civilised Norway, and that people can live off their work, and that the benefits and power of society are more widely distributed here than in many other countries. It has been good for the country – for its inhabitants – and good for business and the economy. This is to be seen as a factor of security and well-being when the right-hand side wants more temporary staff, more renting, lower wages for workers and a tax exemption for billionaires. Then we break the fissure layer, and that leads to fewer people being organized, and power being distributed to the crooks of society. Differences between people are increasing, and the influence of ordinary people in society is weakening. That is what this debate is about. It is absolutely right that there is a right-hand side policy that threatens workers' rights in Norway. That's what's the problem, both for the SV and for the trade union movement. It is right-wing policy – not where the rules or regulations come from. But we need to be able to see when right-wing policy comes from the EU. We need to be able to recognize it, and we need to be able to stop it. That's why we're opposed to some of the rules that come, because they're threatening this. This is the SV and the trade union movement agree. We must ensure that the EU cannot, by means of directives or through the courts, review Norwegian wage and working conditions and collective agreements or set aside ILO conventions. The concern is that we see ESA engaging in the rules to change Norwegian working life, and the four most well-known judgments in the Court of Justice – Rüffert, Laval, Viking Line and Luxembourg – are used as a breakbone to weaken workers’ rights. The judgments set aside workers' opportunities for means of combat and collective agreements if they prevent freedom of establishment and free movement of services. It may restrict the country's right to rule in the field of employment policy. Because these judgments are so bad with the Norwegian model, we're very concerned about the evolution we're seeing. This is speeding up – it is in a way an explosive force in this now, with the crisis in Europe, created by the fact that the right-hand side has not wanted to control the financial acrobats and banks and has sent the bill to ordinary people, who lose both the job and the pension. It creates mass unemployment, and people come to Norway, of course. SV is for work immigration – we need it, they need it – but we are deeply concerned about how this changes Norwegian working life. It is true that when unemployment explodes, wages are cut, and no one dares claim their rights, because then they lose their jobs, either in the EU or here. When, in addition, the right-hand side of Norway is against the most effective measures against social dumping, I believe that their speeches here today are being horrified. There are larger and smaller measures against social dumping, but the most important ones, which can really mean that social dumping is revealed and will cost a lot – such as transparency and solidarity, collective redress, which we work with, and large parts of the temporary work package, which they stand here and defend – have thus been voted against. And why do they do that? Well, when they write in the settings, they reveal that these measures prevent competition on wages and salaries. And that means falling into wages, it, for ordinary people – for cleaners, building workers, maids and other ordinary workers. I believe it is a mere declaration of war by parties who in all their policies show that they are the most for the rich and the privileged. It is that if the EU says hope, the Right and the Advance Party jump, while challenging to use the space for action, so that the EU and the EEA Agreement cannot interfere with Norwegian tariff agreements and Norwegian labour regulations. It's urgent to ensure this, because the pressure is going to increase enormously in the future because of the critical situation. It is available, for example: directives that risk having the consequence that we need to remove some of the measures against social dumping. I know that the Norwegian government is protesting against it – I fully agree and very pleased – and it would have been interesting to hear about the right side that today defends Norwegian working life, Norwegian wages and Norwegian legislation, could provide support to the government in that fight, so that we can ensure the measures that will keep the organised and well-functioning labour market in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e638	It's a rather special interpellation when we get to the point, that it's clarifying the uncertainty about what the Center Party and SV want with their upcoming roll-out programs, and also clarifying what's going to happen at the LO Congress. State councillor Barth Eide said it very clearly: you are not told the LO, you are in dialogue with the LO. I think that was a wise answer. I'm assuming that it might also apply to the relationship with the Center Party. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide referred to Martin Kolberg – a good quote: ‘If the attacks on the EEA Agreement do not cease, it will make us incapacitated by the government.’ I have another and more famous quotation from the same Kolberg from Lier and Buskerud. It's: ‘The trade union movement, the trade movement, the trade movement.’ It is safe, and I will go from a debate on ideological symbols, criminal reactions and fear of a discussion about what is actually happening in Norwegian labour. What about the security of everyday life? It is the most important thing for people, and there is the most central issue in working life. Work outside the EEA — yes, some try to give the impression that this position would mean closing down the limits for workers from EEA countries to be able to take up work in Norway. As far as I am concerned, none of the national actors in the trade movement have been familiar with such a policy. On the other hand, a growing number of federal and local LO departments are calling for us to become masters again in our own house and no longer accept that the EEA should override Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian legislation which affect the rights of workers in the labour market. One of the main concerns about the established legal status of the EU is the fundamental shift of power to the employer side and, on the one hand, to the European Court of Justice. This will further strengthen democratic problems. EU law in this area not only attacks the rights of strike itself but also attacks the right of organisation and collective bargaining. Professor of Labour Law Stein Euju has formulated it as follows: ‘However, with the approach on which the European Court of Justice has been based and the legal status of the Court of Justice thus established, the very foundation of collective labour and collective bargaining arrangements is in reality threatened.’ Europe is very clear in its assessment of their importance: ‘And the consequences may be more wide-ranging than those of tariff law and those relating to ‘social dumping’. If the foundations of collective labour law and collective bargaining arrangements are strengthened, they will at the same time involve shifts in social power conditions; thus, they also have implications for the basic structures of society.» Hallvard Bakke has said so. Among other things, he said: in a chronicle of class struggle 13 April this year: ‘Here Norway must put its foot down and, if necessary, be willing to give up the whole EEA if the EU does not agree to change. It is necessary to amend the EEA Agreement in order not to interfere with Norwegian collective agreements or with Norwegian legislation which affect the rights of workers in the labour market.» That's it! It is emphasised that one cannot take out one area of the EEA Agreement while maintaining the Agreement. Well, Sweden has not adopted the euro, despite the fact that their membership agreement with the EU obliged them to do so. The people said no, and the EU has tacitly accepted. It is emphasised that a functioning trade agreement with the EU cannot be concluded without being linked to all four freedoms. Well, despite a comprehensive agreement with the EU, Switzerland has not concluded an agreement with the EU covering the service sector. And neither the Services Directive, the Banking Guarantee Directive nor the EU's third postal directive are mandatory. Finally, ideological dogmatisation over time causes growing weaknesses when one sees the results. Ideology is important, different ideologies must be broken in public debate, but most important in this debate is to look at the world of work. The homogeneity of working life between people requires some democratic tools to correct market forces. More and more professionals are losing their place in Norwegian work today because of the content and practice of the EEA Agreement. People see it, get more informed and see the reasons. Therefore, there is a need to amend the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e682	Let me first say that the Christian People's Party will guarantee the Norwegian model of working life, guarantee workers' rights and duties. We want to fight for the model that we are proud of in Norway. We've done that in all the positions we've been in – in government and in opposition – and we're going to continue with that no matter what political situation we're going to be in after the 2013 elections. Today's debate confirms what emerged in the debate we had last week that the EEA Agreement's position here in the United Kingdom is bottom-solid. I will again praise the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his clear speech. You can choose to see it as a play for dialogue, as the representative Lundtigen suggested, I see it as a clear message when the foreign minister last week said that the Labour Party will never rule on any basis other than the EEA Agreement. There is as clear a message as it can be given. There has been an interesting discussion so far, and it does not exactly reflect the fact that the proposal to take the working part out of the EEA Agreement has any support in this room. In fact, the representative, Lundtigen, is all alone in proposing something in this direction in the debate. The development we have had in Norway in the last 20 years is based on the four freedoms of the EEA Agreement. We have a favourable position as an oil and gas nation, but we have a favourable position above all because we have an open trade – depending on other countries, but hit by an agreement that also gives free movement of labour, not only goods and services for the rest. It has given us the welfare growth that we have seen in recent years. The EEA Agreement is an important part of that foundation. Has the EEA Agreement led to a deterioration in the interests of workers here in Norway? In our opinion – no. We have adapted in Norway without weakening the basic Norwegian model. We have also, through the EEA Agreement and through the adaptations that Norway has made, given new groups of workers in the Norwegian labour market a stronger protection than they would otherwise have. I have to ask those who want to take the working part out of the EEA Agreement: what if that requirement had come from one of the countries from which these workers come, for example. Poland? How would you react to such a play? In another context, the representative Svein Roald Hansen has stated that the proposal to take the working part out of the EEA Agreement is political gambling. Martin Kolberg has said that it would make the Workers' Party incapacitated, and a foreign minister here said to the Free Movement for a time ago that he hopes LO does not rotate it to himself. I would argue that the proposal is fundamentally unsolvable and should not be followed. Besides, it's totally unrealistic. It will never be accepted, and it is really nothing but an attempt to undermine an EEA agreement that was already opposed. What is alarming is that the management of the LO has allowed this debate to go as far as it is allowed to go. For there is a pure undermining activity, directed by the outermost left wing, which has very little support here in Stortinget. But this is a LO case. We cannot decide that or give notice of it. We can mean that, and we do that. I would like to say that the dream of a trade agreement in the 1970s is a kind of retro policy. It is apparently modern in some contexts of retro, but in the field of trade policy and employment policy, retro is a very poor recipe. I believe that we in Norway should therefore concentrate on exploiting the EEA Agreement's space of action, stand up for the values and models that we are proud of in Norway, and not indulge in unrealistic thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e703	I want to start by just reminding myself a little about why the EEA was created. We remember the beginning of the 1980s: after years of right-wing policy, there was a banking crisis and a housing crisis, and we set interest rates at 17 p.m. The recognition that Norway could participate on equivalent terms to what was then the EC grew, and that the trade agreement we had with Europe did not adequately safeguard Norwegian interests, including: because they lacked conflict mechanisms. Therefore, the EEA was invented. It has been established – and it is certain – that it is not possible to take employment out of the EEA and at the same time safeguard the four freedoms of the EEA Agreement. The free movement of establishment, labour and services is what creates Norwegian growth. Three out of ten jobs are currently owned by people in the EU. FMC Technologies, Ågotnes, is a good example. Of the 900 employees, 60 are non-residents. They speak 28 different languages. 70 pst. of the West's oil-based industry has foreign nationals on the payroll list, according to the Official Journal of Bergen. According to the Tax Directorate, 387 100 non-residents had tax cards in Norway last year, of which about 100,000 came from outside the EEA. It is an image that the EEA Agreement and labour immigration are very important for Norway. I am therefore very surprised that parts of the Senterpartiet – who actually maintain an agricultural industry that is entirely dependent on labour immigration on Norwegian soils – are here saying that they are strong opponents of the EEA Agreement. I think such a policy would lead to the Senter party actually meeting itself at the door. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the work space is used. It is a fact that what comes from the EU is largely minimum directives, which both representatives Karin Andersen and Anette Trettebergstuen were well integrated in their contributions. However, due to EU compromises, the minimum directives are very often established below Norwegian level. That is when national policies become very important. I just want to remind you of the following: the representative Eriksen Soreide was also on the topic of the temporary agency directive and referred to it as a matter where we had a room for action. Then it's a little strange to know that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party were actually opponents of many of the measures introduced as the national legislative package in the framework of the agency directive. They were opponents of the duty of discussion, solidarity, transparency and disclosure. The issue of the temporary agency directive is a very good example of where the conflict lines go between the right and the left in terms of labour policy. The problem is not the EU and the EEA, the problem is that we have a Right Party and a Advance Party both here and in many other countries that will undermine pay and working conditions and not guarantee workers' rights in Europe. I want to end by saying that we have to understand, as many people have been involved, that people who work in the hotel and restaurant industries, in the transport sector or in the construction industry are really anxious about the conditions they see individuals going on. The fight against social dumping is a fight against the prevailing government and this majority has been working actively for seven years. We intend to continue this through a new Action Plan 3. I just want to challenge the Right to clarify – because it is an important matter – the relationship between ILO conventions and EU legislation. For the Labour Party, I must state that ILO conventions prevail over EU legislation. It would be interesting to hear what's Right's vision. Do the ILO Conventions consider that priority should be given to EU legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e718	I would also like to thank you in this debate for a good and fresh debate. I notice that some of the participants in the debate avoid what was the issue in my interpellation, namely what the consequence of taking employment out of the EEA would be. Instead, the representative, Karin Andersen, felt that it was more reasonable to discuss the issue of asset tax cuts. I can say that reducing, and gradually removing, the wealth tax is very important for preserving Norwegian jobs. It's a thought that even Minister of Industry Trond Giske thought highly about, until the Prime Minister brutted him to the point that such thoughts really didn't come to mind. The other something interesting came from the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen. I fully agree that the government does not give notice to LO, but it sometimes seems – historically, at least – as if LO has given notice to the government. Of course, it's a completely different discussion. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has doubts about many of them – in my opinion – that the Minister of Foreign Affairs made excellent points about what would be the problems and also the impossibility of taking work out of the EEA Agreement. To the representative of Gustavsen: Although not all ways are agreed to use the space for action at national level, there is no doubt that we are busy using the national space for action, but that does not mean that we have to agree on all the things that are being done. In my opinion – a perception I also perceive that the Minister for Foreign Affairs shares – it is both unsolvable, unhistorical and unrealistic to take work life or any other part of the EEA Agreement. I am not disappointed that there was no more dispute than it was – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said – on the contrary, I am very reassured that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so clearly and clearly confirms what we agree on. But the government's mission is to deliver big messages and give talks here in the hall and elsewhere that give the impression of agreement on the EEA, it doesn't seem like that message has reached the centre party and the SV – we can only hear the debate that has been here today. We can also hear the very different interpretations they have of the possibility of taking part in the EEA Agreement. We do not have to go back further than 16 December 2011, when Liv Signe Navarsete was in the evening post and opened for a referendum on the EEA, believed that the people had been led behind the EEA Agreement, and not least thought that there was a realistic opportunity to get Norway out of the EEA Agreement. In the case of the four opposition parties, they have at least one thing in common: everyone is on the EEA Agreement. Everyone is behind the EEA Agreement. There's something different than you could say about today's government. That is why it is so important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs now so clearly states that it is up-to-date government policy to take work or any other part out of the EEA Agreement and that it is not appropriate to govern on any basis other than the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e733	Thank you enough for a debate that highlights our main international agreement. The more, the better, I'll say, because this is close to my heart. I want to start by quoting from the draft Progress Party programme, because I think it's being treated a little voiced and deserves more attention than it's been given. Then I refer to page 64, lines 45-48, in what is on the website of the Progress Party. It reads as follows: ‘The Norwegian welfare system is vulnerable to high levels of immigration. There is therefore a need to find new solutions to ensure continued good welfare arrangements, while at the same time reducing the possibility of exporting welfare schemes out of the country. The Progress Party therefore considers that there is a need to renegotiate the provisions of the EEA Agreement relating to labour and welfare systems.» I understand that this is a draft, and it should be a debate. So we don't give notice to anyone, but a kind advice is to think carefully about it. I would advise against the type of ‘renegotiation’ for the same reasons that the representative Eriksen Soreide has been before, but I am pleased with the commitment to labour and welfare schemes! So I'm going to be a little straightforward: I think everyone who follows Norwegian policy knows that despite this wording – and if, against assumption, there would be a new government with the Progress Party and the Right in the head – it is hardly such that you want to put the EEA Agreement into play. The same is true of a new Stoltenberg government. The point is not that there is no disagreement between parties, or that there is one party's desire to change the position of another party. The point is to clarify what will be the basis for a new government like this – it will be the same basis as the previous two versions of the Stoltenberg government. We have done well on that basis, and we have done well to base it, both in 2005, in 2009 and in the announcement that the Stortinget now has to deal with. Then I find that despite repeated questions – most recently from the representative Gustavsen – there are some unanswered questions from the opposition, and not least from the Right. I am pleased that both the representative Graham and the representative Eriksen Soreide are saying that the room for action should be used, but I still have the benefit of finding out what it is for. For every time we try to use the space for action, it is at least fault, and dangerous, and worrying – and we ‘put the EEA Agreement into play’. So if we could, at the next crossroads, hear what the Right will change in the European Union, then it will please me. The same applies to the issue of the relationship between the ILO and the EU. There we are, at least, very clear: the basic commissions we participate in in the fields of employment will apply regardless, and we will defend these in the EEA and keep them in Norway, no matter what else happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e752	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e766	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e775	First of all, I would like to commend the representatives of the Left for raising this important issue to debate in the Grand Chamber. The proposal from the Left is a concrete proposal to follow up the intentions expressed by many politicians from several parties in many debates here in the Chamber. There appears to be a strong consensus on the need to ensure a professional and competent counselling service that can provide good career guidance to young people. Students are faced with great and important choices to learn about a variety of study offers — often in a phase of life where dreams and aspirations for future work are not necessarily unambiguous. Finding the good solution where wishes, interests and qualities can be combined to provide opportunities in the workplace is demanding. The Committee configuration shows that all batches agree with the wish to improve the provision of pupils. Government parties refer to the measures already taken to improve quality and that this has already had a positive effect. On this basis, the majority propose that the proposal should not be adopted. The opposition parties promote proposals to put in place training in the field of career guidance, but have shared one proposal for further training and one proposal for three-year vocational training. The intention is common — to put in place training that ensures high quality and competence in the implementation of the guidance. The various proposers will probably argue for their solutions. The right agrees that it is desirable to provide professional training in career guidance. We are therefore promoting, together with the Left, proposals that the government should take the initiative in such training. Feedback suggests that there is still a major gap in the implementation of career guidance in schools, and we believe that by building this competence we will be able to ensure that more people make good and right choices, which give them good experiences in further education. Many also indicate that this will be an important and targeted contribution to reducing the drop-out in higher education. For the Right, it is also important that there is an opportunity for persons with other professional experience to participate in an adapted race, so that their experience and references can form the basis for further training as career guidance staff. The fact that the government has initiated measures that have already produced positive results is good, but cannot be a sleeping cushion. An increasing number of occupations and tasks require more education and the need for both specific professional competence and relevant knowledge from other disciplines is recognised. Providing advice in such a demanding market requires competent staff, and a three-year training could be an important contribution to building such skills – not only in school but also in industry and society. It is now common to meet new challenges in the field of work and, in particular, it is relevant to continuing training. Many HR departments will be able to gain a valuable level of competence and increase the ability to provide good advice to their employees by obtaining professional career guidance as part of the staff. There is a need for increased skills, and there are good educational environments that can address this challenge. Now it is necessary for the Council of State to take an initiative in setting up training in career guidance. I am in favour of the proposal on which the Right is voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e792	The representative of Svein Harberg then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e795	There are still some – fortunately fewer and fewer – who believe that Norway is a good welfare society because of our petroleum wealth. But the truth is that 85 pst. of our national wealth is our current and future work. The announcement that we live on our common work effort is very comprehensive and can be rewritten that we live on our common knowledge. In recent years, therefore, the government has spent several billion dollars in increasing the quality of education. Full child care is a good example of good knowledge policy. Similarly, increased learning density and the introduction of six new weekly hours in Norwegian, English and math are also good examples. That is why the Norwegian school is doing well. From this point of view, I would like to draw a direct link to the question of how consultants can guide and help young people plan their lives and see which career choices may be relevant. This theme is not new. This has been a repetition of the school policy debate for a long time and has also led to some progress in the quality of counselling and career guidance. SINTEF’s evaluation of the scheme says that it is due to the fact that counselling has become more and more the responsibility of the whole school. However, if a real grip on counselling and career guidance is to be taken seriously, a much more professionalised task needs to be done, both by raising education at the university level and by reducing the distance from work and business. Although much good advice is being given at school today, it is too much influenced by too little knowledge of its many exciting challenges in different areas of work and business. Future advisors can therefore benefit greatly directly from business in order to gain firsthand knowledge of the many career paths that exist in our society. One of the most important future resources is our youth and the educational and professional choices they make early in their education. The opposition wants the State to intervene and control this from above and run over its responsibility. It strikes me that this illustrates well the criticism that came in connection with the evaluation of the promise of knowledge, namely that the state should not govern in the way that the opposition now states. The opposition provides detailed management of the school owners instead of controlling through quality indicators, skills objectives and a defined learning outcomes. Now, all the higher education institutions have put in place a Council for cooperation with the labour market. This will be a good forum for the school owners to record what a need for education and competence in this area. Of course, the marbles have the power to create and, where appropriate, to supply themselves and independently of others. I have great confidence that both the school owners and the institutions know their visit time and see the usefulness of a high school offer in this area. The debate here today is hopefully also a good input to see why this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e814	Let me start by thanking both the proposers for raising this debate and the case-rapporteur for a good presentation. However, I react a little to what the last speaker here says, that things are going well in Norwegian school. It is possible that there is something that goes better than it has done before, but saying that it is going well, is well to take something hard in. One of the things we're struggling with is that we know that many of the higher education institutions have a lot of non-response. Something is obviously due to a failing level of professional knowledge, given what should be expected after 13 years at school, but I also think that something quite obvious is due to wrong choices. There are some challenges about these relationships, and one of them – I think – is that the choices made in high school, and not least the choices made in high school by students and candidates for studies, are enough decisions on a failing basis. One of the reasons for this – and this is not something I mean personally, this is something that we gradually have quite good evidence of – is that the consultants do not necessarily know the entire lack of employment we have in Norway. For this reason, the Progress Party – the Christian People's Party must respond separately – has promoted a different proposal today than the Right and Left. We believe that it is an independent point to open up the possibility of adding people as counsellors in Norwegian school who actually have experience in other parts of the world of work than schools. As far as I can understand, the representative of Bremer is mistaken when he says that this is an attempt to override the school. Because it is true today that there are quite clear demands for the professional background to be able to be employed in public schools. What we are trying to do today, both the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party – at least the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party – is to open the way for people with different professional backgrounds to be able to receive permanent education in school, subject to continuing training as advisers. I'm not a thoughtful subject of imposition, but to the extent that you should start by imposing things, you might have to ask people with a long and important experience in business to finish your career by two years as a Norwegian school adviser. Then we could have made sure that we got the skills on how the business out there actually works. That is the main reason why the Progress Party is promoting the proposal we are making today with the Christian People's Party. It is precisely to open up to what the representative Bremer says, in order to be able to retrieve advisers directly from the professional life, advisers who have higher education, which, in my opinion and in my interpretation of today's legislation, is not an occasion today – it wants the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to do. Then I can have a profitable hope that the representative of Bremer will vote for that proposal, since he has clearly given the impression that that is what he wants. As I said, we in the Progress Party do not feel that the proposal from the Right and the Left meets the very important need to bring counsellors to school with competence and long professional experience, advisers who also know other parts of the professional life than the school, and which we believe are an important independent point in this matter. I assume that the Christian People's Party will explain why they vote as they do, but I am promoting the proposal that we have with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e833	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e836	I'm actually a little tired of talking down the Norwegian school. Now I really think we should say that Norwegian school is very good. Everything is not good, but Norwegian school is very good. I hope the representative from the Advance Party will remember that. Then there is also a cross-political consensus in the Storting that the advisory service is very important. It is therefore good that representatives draw on experiences and ideas from other countries, which can help to strengthen the counselling service. It is important that consultants have good skills, but at the same time advice is of such a nature that they need continuous continuing training, rather than a three-year education, and so on. The proposal refers to the experience of Sweden and their programme of study and vocational guidance staff. Today, county municipalities have established their own career centres or training centres. These are centres of excellence that capture job and education applicants from a region. Here you will find career guidance staff who can help identify the need for further education, training, etc. My local career centre is located in the new merged secondary school and cooperates with other school advisory services, with Nav, with local labour market companies and with the advisory service elsewhere in the region. The centre covers a population of nearly 30 000, three municipalities, six secondary schools, and from autumn one secondary school. None of these schools have counsellors in 100 pst. position, except for the new secondary school. In other countries, there is even greater gap between schools and career centres and thus between advisers. It might have been desirable to have advisers in 100 pst. positions in all schools, but this is not the case today. And if you instead, for example. would locate all the advisers of a local career centre, would lose the daily access to the counselor at school. It is important that those employed in advisory positions have broad competence because they often also have to play other roles. The integration of educational and vocational counselling into school activities is important to discuss. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the Vocational and Training Guidance document should be a theme throughout the education cycle, a theme on which all teachers participate through their teaching, as well as the specific guidance provided through the advisory service. Greater coordination should be sought between primary and secondary schools and the labour market. There will also be an advantage if schools establish networks with external partners in employment and business. And there is a need to involve seniors in the guidance process to a greater extent than we do today. I want to use my own district, Hadeland, as an example. This example is just linked to cooperation. In Hadeland, they have developed their own cooperation, which they call HANS. It stands for Hadeland Business and School Working Group. In this cooperation, the advisers from the secondary schools, from the secondary schools, and from the county council, the career centre, the municipalities and the business community. They are currently working with learning and development teams linked to an even closer cooperation between school and working life, especially in the professional fields. The establishment of such coherent action chains could facilitate the transition between levels of education and thus help to reduce the number of re-elections and the drop-out in secondary schools. In order to revert to the proposal itself, the Centre believes that it is better to facilitate a type of modular education in career guidance rather than a three-year vocational training course. A modular education could make it more flexible to take study credits, including online and decentralised studies. But no matter how we organize education for counselors and career guidance staff, it is important that we do not settle down on the fact that basic education is enough. Municipalities themselves must also ensure that they have well-trained advisers. Close cooperation between school and work life is essential for good advisers. In addition, close cooperation towards higher education and university levels needs to be established. Vocational education, introduced in 2008, has proved to work very differently from school to school. The conclusion is that several schools have got to the subject in a good way, but too many have not been able to benefit from the potential of the subject. This must be done better than today by the schools. If we are to provide good advice, then cooperation is essential, not least with the parents, who are the seventh and last of all the counselors the students listen to the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e872	There are two techniques of debate that are being exposed from the current position. One technique is that when you point out that things can get better, you talk something down. The second is that if you propose something new, you will intervene in the freedoms that exist in this sector – which, of course, are not the intention, and which, of course, this does not. Just to stick to some facts: there are 25 OECD countries. We're in the 22nd place when it comes to getting students out in no time. It's possible it's talking school down, but it's a fact. Apostasy is one of the major challenges we face, and I think it is our duty in this room to propose as many things as we can to improve it. There is probably a school in Hedmarken, a school in Oslo, or a school in Rogaland that works well. We have to learn from them, but it's still the way that the student survey in 2012 shows that 50 pst. of all the students have never received vocational guidance. They haven't even gotten it. That there are some schools that work well is positive, but I am busy with the 50 pst. who have not even received it. The fact that you do not receive vocational guidance is going to lead to many wrong choices. The fact that you don't get the opportunity to talk about how to build education in relation to the future is one of the reasons why we have a lot of non-response. In my view, non-response is that we in this room will meet with as many good suggestions as we can on how we can achieve the goal. This is one of the proposals made by the Left. We have brought many others too, but now we have put forward a proposal here today. Being a consultant is a demanding job – a hugely demanding job. You have to deal with many personalities with many dreams and visions about what their lives are going to contribute to, and what kind of abilities they have, which they can develop further. Seeing it and being able to develop it is actually a huge job – but it also has to be a very exciting job. We have a working life that is developing in completely adventurous changes. A profession that someone starts today will be guaranteed to be completely different when he withdraws a pension. We need to train for a very flexible working life – we need to train for a work life we may not know how to get into it. So it changes so fast. That means that the old vocational guidance when I went to school, or when the state council went to school – or maybe when the president went to school – was directed towards a very different everyday life than the young people today are going into, because it's much more complex. When we were to choose, we would choose if we thought it was fun to work with society, technology or mechanics -- we could choose one of those branches. Today, we know that working life is changing so dramatically that it will not be possible. That's why we need an education that focuses a lot more on finding out what motivates people, what drive people have in relation to their education, and what strength they have that can be built on. This is a completely different and much more demanding job than finding out which item to fill in when applying for further work. That's why we believe that having a professional education within this could be a strength not only for the counselling service in school, it could also be a competence that you could use for many other things. We see today that there are growing up a lot of companies that live by providing that kind of coaching. Making sure that there had become some quality over it, I think maybe there had not been any weakness for the Norwegian community either. So that's why we promoted the proposal. We're really glad we're getting support from the Right. It's completely real to disagree with that. But that this is an education that is needed in Norwegian society – both to combat apostasy and to ensure that we get students who get the opportunity to develop the potential they have in themselves – is that it is a competence that we need in Norwegian society in general, I am absolutely convinced. This I believe would have been a good way to do it. We'd like to discuss other ways of doing it to achieve that goal, but I think it's a competence we should build in Norwegian higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e889	It's a very demanding job to give good advice to young people about what are tricking choices for them for the future, both because we don't know 100 pst. What that future is going to look like – Trine Skei Grande is absolutely right in saying that if we look back, we see that it looks so different in the 1960s in Porcelain than it looks now – and because in the youth's expectations of what you can do, there is often quite a gap between what areas there are opportunities to get a job and what kind of dreams you have. If the president allows, I thought I'd tell one little story. There was one of these countless high school students I've discussed with, who would like to have a reason why you should have side goals. He had received one reason, and it was that if he worked in the state and municipality, he would answer in a new language if he received a letter in a new language. So he looked completely startled at me, and then he said, "The jam I'm not going to be a bureaucrat, I'm going to be a stylist in Hollywood." There may well be a limited number of stylists in Hollywood, at least I don't think that every youth who walks around and dreams of becoming it in the 14-15s gets the opportunity. But then finding something that can still take the interest, and that can be a way to realize, is quite important. An adviser's job is often to get the wishes, expectations, dreams and hopes of the future to meet something that has a realistic future in Norwegian working life, and to meet those interests. The advisory service is very important. Luckily, it's getting better. But there are still too many young people who get too little advice, who get too little advice, and who don't easily find answers to what they're asking. That's why our ambitions in this area are big. Then we can discuss: How do we get the best advisors in Norwegian school? In 2010, we have provided guidance qualification criteria for advisers, and it has been made known to school owners along with recommended training requirements for advisers. What we recommend is education at least at the bachelor's level, and that at least 60 credits are «advisor-relevant». It opens up a number of ways for a school counselor: teacher training, health education, social and educational studies, etc. Professional experience and a good knowledge of the school are also mentioned in the recommended requirements. It is the indicative competence criteria to assist the school owner in the recruitment process. It is important to professionalise the counselling service. That is why this is also one of the priority areas of our continuing education strategy. But I'm not convinced that it's right to make your own profession out of an adviser's assignment. I think that different other types of professional background and experience along with 60 credits in counselling can be the best thing to do in many cases. It will also often be the case, as the representative Tingelstad Wøien was in, that the advisory service in many schools will be a position that is in combination with other types of tasks, for example: educational tasks. That's why there are different combinations that can hit better. Nor is it the case that the guidance and feedback we have received, for example. Once Sintef has evaluated the advice, we have to think completely differently from what we're doing now. We get feedback that what is now doing is very good and that it can be strengthened and developed further. There are several who have given up the examples from Sweden and the «Study and VET Programme», but there has been a feedback and evaluation that makes me not convinced that it is the right way to go. I believe we have a reasonably good model. I think we need to have a much higher level of ambition in municipalities and counties to ensure that consultants get part of further education programmes in this field, that they get enough time in schools to make sure that students know that they can get help to discuss the alternatives available, and that the educational programme at the youth level is actively used to introduce different professions for students. [[The President clubs.]] Then I can definitely come back to more in the line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e910	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e914	Despite the fact that the Council of State explains that there is an opening for other educational groups to work as advisers, there are, in practice, very many people with a background in education who have these kinds of roles. Then we're back to the fact that it doesn't seem that it's stimulated enough that other professionals actually come in and do this job. The representative of the largest positioning party, Bremer, says he's going to presumptuously let people with education go straight from business to counseling at school. Yesterday we had a round here in the main hall between myself and the Prime Minister about the lack of engineers and others with MNT training. It was not on the list of state councils' requests for the qualifications of school counsellors. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the type of training groups can also work as advisers in the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e923	What I think makes some schools think of combination with teachers when they recruit counselors, is exactly the flexibility that it gives, because these are also people who can teach students in other settings. I'm not sure if we need to primarily use our hard-pressed engineers in advisory positions. But what I'm sure of is that a lot of students and students could be interested in talking to, getting a meeting and getting guidance on the engineering profession from an engineer, rather than through an advisor. That's why a lot of what an advisor can do, he'll be meetings between students and the professionals who might be interesting to them, because then they can get a realistic introduction. For example, many people believe that in real trades and technical professions one is not related to people, one is related to something else. But in most professions today, you relate to people, and maybe some girls will find qualities in the professions they haven't seen before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e930	This is very exciting, because what the Council of State indirectly says is somewhat the same as I have claimed as long as I have worked on this, namely that there is a great and instrumental need in the Norwegian school to strengthen the interaction between local working life and the schoolwork. At an earlier stage, at least at the end of high school, and to an even greater extent in high school and high school, we need to develop e.g. the choices for which we have agreed on the introduction. We need to include industry in a heavy and clear way at school — not only business, but also public employment must be included in the development of schools locally. Can the Council confirm that she agrees with the representative Lien?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e937	I'm very concerned that local business and other parts of the world of work should be a very motivating, relevant and important learning venue for students while they go to school. The choices that are now being introduced for all youth students can just be used as such. Educational choices are also an opportunity for local businesses or public workplaces to be introduced to students. I am absolutely sure you can get a much more realistic, relevant and motivating school if you strengthen the cooperation between local businesses and workplaces around the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e942	Today, there has been a clear consensus in the Chamber that it is important to increase the competence of those involved in counselling and career guidance and to gain the most relevant background in this respect. So the Council of State says that a professional career counsellor will not be the good solution for all schools. Yes, we fully agree with that. In many places there will be not enough volume for such a position, and it will be combined with other things. But from then on to being against the fact that we are travelling a new profession, a new education as a career guide in Norwegian society, I have to say, amazement. I wonder why, then, the Council of State is directly opposed to taking the initiative to establish this as a profession in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e951	I just don't think I'm convinced that it's the right way to go. It is very rare that we send out directives to set up new vocational training courses for universities and colleges. On the contrary, we have recommended that there be contact between those who need the skills and those who will provide the skills, namely universities and colleges, in order to find out how they can work together to provide the right education pathways. So I think maybe we're going to nuance this debate a little bit more, because you might need some guidance at high school. It can be very much a matter of young people who have a rather distant relationship with both higher education and higher education and the labour market as such. So it can be a little more advanced — you may need other types of qualifications — to provide guidance to young people at secondary level, but also a lot at higher education and university level may need guidance. That, I think, is the interesting element of the proposal that is being discussed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e958	My concern is the two numbers I mentioned, that we are in the 22nd place of 25 in terms of implementation rate, and that 50 pst. they reply that they have not received advice. So I realize there's a lot of good projects going on, and there's a lot of good attempts to do things better, but it's still a pretty big mistake. What surprises me is that the council says she's not sure if this is the way to go. Why do we have to go one way? Why can't we try different ways to achieve this goal, because I guess the Council of State agrees with me that this is one of the major challenges we face in terms of non-response and wrong choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e965	If that's the way we oblige higher education and universities to set up a professional education, we should have a certain idea that there is a profession that there will be a demand. If we don't risk recommending young people to train as professionals and maybe make a mistake. That's why I'm concerned that we take that discussion thoroughly. I have come so far that I believe that there are other ways of better advice that are the best. Of the figures that the representative Skei Grande refers to, I'm most surprised that 50 pst. students in the student survey say that they have not received any guidance, because we have introduced a subject called educational choice, and there should be advisory service in all schools. So I think there's something about the quality, and I think maybe there's something about making students aware of what they're actually getting in the field of education choices, which is an important part of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e972	I've been around some high school that's pretty good at going down the lines to high school and letting people try out, for example. professional activities in conjunction with the local business community referred to by the Council of State. But I'm going to a lot of schools, and there's very few, more specifically one of those that I've met, that have had a real system, and that had a lot of students into that particular system. So I wonder if the council assures itself that these things that are being started really come down when she is told that 50 pst. by the students at the other end have not even spoken to a consultant until they have completed the form.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e977	It's one of the big challenges, to follow the good intentions of Stortinget and we have, to make sure that they actually reach the last student – that they get the offers that are our intention. This is something that I have been constantly concerned about strengthening, in what way we follow up, for example. the Youth Level Communication; Guidance and advice were an important part of the discussion then, and I will, of course, make sure that we are even more excited to get it done. Then I just want to say one thing in the end, and that's that completion in higher education is a slightly different issue than completion in high school. It's because these higher education implementation figures necessarily don't take sufficient account of students who change institutions or who put together their subjects a little different than they thought. The consequences of going a little bit more crinkly in higher education are not as great as not completing secondary education — there are two wide-ranging debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e986	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e992	This debate has not contained any major surprises, and a continuation of the debate will not do so either, I am absolutely sure. But a few comments. The representative of Bremer said that the opposition would intervene and override the school owner. I think we need an explanation of how to initiate a professional education is to intervene and override a school owner. So I couldn't connect, it could be my challenge. What we are asking for is for the Council of State to take an initiative, engage in dialogue with the sector and see if we can contribute some national framework for such training. Through governance dialogue, can we find out who will do this, and how much need we have? The latter is important, because in the answers we have received in writing at least, it is requested that this can be an initiative in the vicinity of a college where a student is present, but then one does not have an environment of competence built for it. At least in the first instance, such education would have to focus on one or a few places in order to gain good competence. Then I just want to clarify again: we are not just talking about this as an offer to the school, but as an offer to everyone else who is also involved – the word coaching was used here – career guidance in companies, and as independent actors who could well have more weight in their backs. I think that would have been good. Otherwise I register that all the parties, I think, have been up and said that they will at least have further training within this. Then it can be exciting to look at the vote – or maybe not. So just a little comment on Tord Lien and the Progress Party that would sum up the differences in the proposals from the opposition parties. The big difference is that the left and the right want to have a professional education. There is no difference, and I also said that in my first post, that we want them with other professional experience. That's why we write: ‘including an adapted course for persons with other vocational training wishing to continue training as a career guidance’. [[...]] Thus, others who have different relevant backgrounds, not necessarily a bachelor, but perhaps a vocational training course, should also have this opportunity. We have that with both of them, but in addition, the Left and Right would like this to be a professional education, so that we can raise it to a higher level with career guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1017	I've long taken the representative Tord Lien, who is now not present, to be an outstanding vessel with an allusion to analytical abilities. But I have to say that after his article today I am actually a little in doubt. He had a simple problem seeing that Norwegian school is going well in many areas today. So I'm going to make a brave little attempt to help the representative, and I'm going to see which area is going very well. Today we have full babysitting. It was a formidable rise that, in the next round with great certainty, will give good results in the school as well. This is an example of good knowledge policy. In recent years, the government has allowed billions of dollars to improve the quality of school. We have expanded the number of hours in the week by 6 hours in Norwegian, English and math. We have increased learning density. I would like to remind you that since 2005, we have received 8 000 more teachers in Norwegian school. When the right-hand side ran, there was a drop of 1,000 teachers at a time when the actual student number increased. We have agreed to wide-ranging responses to non-response and an increase in the continuing training of teachers. At the PISA study, we see a clear progress in all areas. We have 1 300 schools in this period the government has its seat, and to the representative Tord Lien I want to remind you that in Trondheim, where the Labour Party rules, all schools are now approved. Seventeen schools are popping up and are approved by the health authorities. In Bergen, where the right-hand side controls, one of three schools is still not approved by the health authorities. So if the representative and the coach Tord Lien have trouble seeing progress in Norwegian school, I think it might come from being too much in Bergen and too little in his hometown, Trondheim. The representative Harberg was out and had a little visit to the relationship between national government and local government. I would like to remind you of the promise of knowledge that we were all in, and that we saw as a great advance, and was clear that the state would no longer govern the details and run instructions from the school owner. Ideally, the country shall guide through national frameworks, through quality indicators, through skills objectives and defined learning outcomes. I find it difficult to imagine that if this room were to say directly what kind of bachelor's education the various educational institutions would be doing, we are a little bit on a collision course in relation to how we control the colleges, and we challenge local ownership of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1044	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to five lines of reply following contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Truls Wickholm, who is given the floor instead of the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Lotte Grepp Knutsen, who was present as an alternate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1055	Lotte Grepp Knutsen was in the presence of the representative Truls Wickholm, so it falls on the representative of Wickholm to take over this matter in the Chamber. The Committee agrees on the importance of internationalisation. The Committee also agrees with the proposers and agrees with the Ministry's assessment that the internationalisation of education is a key element in strengthening Norway's competitiveness in an increasingly globalised world economy. We in the Committee also agree that what is happening through SIU is good. The Ministry has had a systematic follow-up to SIU’s reports in the last two years, with particular emphasis on governance culture, cooperation with others and the role of SIU as centres of competence for the authorities and the sector. It is also positive that the Ministry, in its response to the Committee, should promote training cooperation with the EU. This is mainly where training cooperation between Norway and other countries in the world takes place, and Norway has full access to participation in the same way as the other countries through EEA cooperation. The EEA Agreement has been discussed in Stortinget earlier today, but here is probably an example of how it works to give Norwegian students, students and apprentices important access. The Committee considers it important that the Ministry and the SIU have an active role in the cooperation that is taking place in the EU, and the Committee agrees that it is very important to continue to focus on the national qualifications framework and on the interaction it will have with the European Qualifications Framework, that this is the key to participation and good mobility for all education and training groups and all professional groups. Then the opposition has a number of proposals – some of them alone – but the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left have at least some proposals that they stand together on. These include student support for first-year students in non-Western countries and the United States, recognition procedures for making foreign school years more predictable, and ensuring that advisers have competence in exchange opportunities, and a better recognition procedure for foreign school years, so as to ensure that the education they take is valid in Norway and how to ensure that the education received abroad is accepted in Norway. I note that the Progress Party does not agree with these proposals. I do not know if it is because it is too expensive for the Advancement Party, or because they disagree. I think maybe they didn't have room in their expansive budgets this time. But I can only record that this is another area where the voters don't quite know what they're going to get if there's going to be another government. But that's not the main point. The main point is that the Workers' Party believes it is important to work more actively for flexible training courses. Studies abroad must also be considered. We want more students out. They gain valuable skills through their studies, but also valuable knowledge of culture and business in other countries. Working life is in agreement that they want more internationalisation; yes, they actually depend on it. If Norway, as a country, does not have people who know the new, big economies from within, we are far behind those who have people with this competence. LO is as late as today and supports ANSA's demand for support for first-year Bachelor's programmes in non-Western countries. ANSA has also shown the committee in the past that when we do not support the bachelor students, it has consequences for how many master students study abroad. I am very pleased that this discussion is coming up, and I am also bringing forward the proposals from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, because in the Workers' Party we share some of the analysis, that in this direction it would be wise to think if you wanted to get more students out. The government works well with internationalisation, but the Labour Party is impatient. We welcome the fact that the government is coming back with what is being done with internationalisation in two messages notified to the Stortinget, namely the Research Communication and the Communication on the Knowledge Promise, which is coming to Stortinget in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1078	I would first like to congratulate the representatives behind the proposal on having addressed this important issue. At the same time, we see that there is a lot of work being done in the field, which could give more opportunities both to take education abroad and to have such an education approved. The size treated in 2009 St.meld. No 14 for 2008-2009, Internationalisation of Education. This message contains a lot of good, and I will praise the government for having delivered such a thorough and good message. A lot is going on, but what is now important is to get a practical, operational commitment in the field. Here, the Progress Party is impatient. The dominant value creation in Norway takes place in the fields of oil and gas, maritime and marine, biotech and finance. These are all international and competence-dependent areas. Globalization and internationalization give enormous opportunities, but it's been a long time since we thought the earth was flat. Today we know that the earth is round, and that it is also very compact. Cultural and language differences between regions, countries and parts of the world are often large but not insurmountable obstacles. In order to overcome the obstacles, international experience, competence and cultural understanding are required. Norwegian education authorities need to facilitate and encourage Norwegian students, students and teachers to take advantage of the opportunities available. We in the Progress Party will stress the importance of internationalisation and the exchange of students and students at all levels of education. It may be at least as useful for business that students in the professional field gain international experience as that of future academics. The commitment to internationalisation needs to be intensified. We've seen an increase in the number of foreign students, but this is clearly related to the overall increase in student mass in Norway that we've seen in recent years. So the proportion that studies abroad hasn't really increased. Lack of support for the first year of Bachelor’s degrees in non-Western countries is one of the reasons for the decline in the number of full-time students in these countries. Many students have to opt out of these countries if they cannot pay for the first year themselves. The fund provides neither loans nor scholarships for the first year of Bachelor's degrees in non-Western countries. This has been preserved by the Progress Party in its alternative budget, and we are counting on the Wickholm representative to register. It is a step forward that it is now possible for more people to study in the BRIC countries, but we need to move on. The next step will be to support the first year of studies also in other countries that are strategic and economically important for Norway, such as Japan, Chile, Argentina, Malaysia and the United States. Education must contribute to broad international competences, education, language skills and cultural understanding. This is an insight that is sought in all parts of society and business. The main knowledge transfer between countries continues to take place by people moving on. Therefore, the ambition should be to make it possible for several Norwegian students, students and researchers to travel to other countries and to receive more from us. It's important to get Norwegian students out, but globalisation goes both ways. A small country like Norway depends on innovation and value creation, and then we also have to attract smart heads from abroad. I often think many nordics exhibit unburdened self-righteousness and arrogance in meeting people from other countries. We refer to UN reports that Norway is the world's best country to live in, the Norwegian model, etc., and appears to be a bit of both abandoned and shocked that not all Germans, Americans and Indians think Norway is a Utopia. We need to recognise that there is a need for more targeted action to attract specific competences to Norway. It is not obvious that the competent labour force is applying to Norway. This is alarming, especially at a time when the need for labour in Norway is great. So we have to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time. We're going out, but we also want many of the others to Norway to benefit from them. Finally, I would like to point out that it is okay for the department to work and focus on this topic. However, the Progress Party will stress the importance of political anchoring and will therefore continue to point out the need for a separate communication on internationalisation in education and work – that it will be useful. There may be two other messages that have been announced, but a separate message in this area is really needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1104	The President assumes that the representative Bente Thorsen should make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1107	The proposals have already been promoted. The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports proposal No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1112	Norway is a small country in the world, you tend to say. It was certainly then Prime Minister Lars Korvald who said it first. The analysis may seem banal, but still says something essential. It states that Norway is small, and therefore may be vulnerable, and at least depending on the rest of the world – a modest Norwegian self-image, which was well suited to Korvald. The most common form of self-image today is probably considerably more inflated. Norway is a new country, and, as most of the new ones, we easily get an excessive belief in our own abilities and skills. It's often an unfortunate starting point in meeting the rest of the world. Even worse, such self-image is combined with lack of language skills and lack of understanding of the culture and traditions of other countries. The result can often be embarrassing and embarrassing, but it can also be terribly expensive. From my time as a student at the Norwegian School of Commerce, I remember the book A Small Open Economy by Victor D. Norman – which he himself read about. Norway has such a small, open economy. It's not just that we export and import a lot. We're totally dependent on it. When many say that it is the oil that has made Norway rich, they forget something essential. Indeed, exports of oil have made Norway rich. However, imports can also bring such prosperity – not least when imported goods become increasingly cheaper and better, such as clothing from China and technology from Korea. International trade and trade in goods are profitable and bring wealth to all participants. It may seem obvious today, but was controversial for a long time — not least on the left side of the policy. Only in recent years have even SV development ministers recognised that trade is more important than assistance for developing poor countries. So then maybe it's just the Center Party again, which still looks at international trade as a threat. In this case, it is important to note that internationalisation is an important strategy for Norway — yes, perhaps the most important one for a country with a small, open economy. The right-wing representative’s proposal addresses a number of proposals on how Norwegian school and higher education can be more internationally oriented, and how Norwegian students and students can gain better international skills and understanding. In a globalised world, this will strengthen their job opportunities both at home and outdoors and improve their competitiveness in Norwegian business. A more internationalised education sector also makes it easier for Norway to accept foreign students and students who in many cases supply us with talent and skills we need. Just as Norway today is dependent on labour immigration, so we will need more knowledge immigration to Norway in the future. Therefore, in the past, the Right has presented its own proposal for measures to ensure growth-enhancing labour immigration, which can be seen in the context of the proposal we are discussing today. Therefore, we will later make proposals on how Norway can get more internationally excellent and attractive knowledge environments. I began by quoting former Prime Minister Lars Korvald of the Christian People's Party. My knowledge of humor in Christian environments is somewhat limited, but it was apparently a prayer house preacher who once said: It doesn't just help to say hallelujah, you have to do it too! I came up with this statement when I read through the answer from the Minister of Knowledge in this matter. As the Committee's comments show, there is a long and comprehensive response that comments on all parts of the Right's proposal in a very positive way. The consensus on the importance of internationalisation of school and higher education is almost touching. But it does little to help when the Minister of Knowledge does not think it is necessary to implement any of the Right proposals. And to those proposals that will require increased appropriations, the Council of State writes that this must be assessed against other budgetary priorities. Since this answer was written in August, and in the meantime we have received the state budget, we now know the phase. None of the measures is a priority and, as far as we can see, there is no new commitment to internationalisation in the state budget. For us in the Right, therefore, the Minister of Knowledge's positive attitude seems more like empty words. She says hallelujah to internationalization, but she doesn't. Internationalisation is about strategies and concrete actions, but it is at least equally important that internationalisation is about awareness. When we force ourselves to evaluate everything we do, from an international perspective, internationalization can become a fundamental and not just a pecking pain. This is where Norway needs to come in, and it is likely that new ideas, better solutions and, not least, will be needed. I will then, if necessary, address the proposals that have been put forward by the Right – either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1129	The representative Henning Warloe has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President would like to stress that this also applies to proposals Nos. 1 and 2, since the representative Thorsen really didn't pick them up. The President will show that all suggestions in the voting will be taken from the Chair, even if they are in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1134	First, thank the proposers for giving us the opportunity to discuss an important issue, namely how Norway will be better able to deal with stronger integration and interaction with other countries in the world. It points to our strong economic relationship with Europe as an exporting and importing country, but also to our relationship with other countries with which it is natural to cooperate, especially in relation to oil and gas industries, marine and maritime exports and interactions. Sickness if the Centre Party is opposed to EU membership, we are in favour of interaction with other countries. As a maritime nation with large natural resources, we are particularly concerned with an active European policy and active cooperation with other nations – in order to contribute to the global care of Norwegian interests. As we know, it is very important for our nation in several areas, as it is also important for us to facilitate the viability of business in Norway — including for farmers. Proposalers point to a number of issues aimed at strengthening Norway’s opportunities in a global world. Clearly, language skills are fundamental to good interaction with the outside world. It's great that the government has arranged for attempts to test a second foreign language in primary schools. I know that there are also schools from my own district who are participating in this with good results. In upper secondary schools, it is also easier to facilitate the deepening of foreign languages both through the possibility of taking higher-level courses and also through the use of the options available in the electoral fields. Sense if the experience is good from the trials, the Center Party believes that the second foreign language should not be made mandatory for all. We've had this discussion before, and the compromise at the time became a subject in high school called depression in Norwegian, English or Sami. There was not exactly any success, while the experience with the introduction of practical work, on the other hand, was very well received. The center part is occupied by the individual and building on what the individual student masters. That means we have to give opportunities, but we also have to respect that we're different. This means that not everyone should have two foreign languages in addition to the main objectives and the secondary objectives. It's about respect for the individual. Then those who are going to have two foreign languages must be given a good offer that makes them functional users of two languages. As I'm sure many of us have been so lucky that I've learned what it means to be close to an exchange student, not in my own person, but one of my children. That is, she was in high school, lived in her own family in one of the BRIC countries and learned a language she couldn't already. Our experience is good, even in the follow-up from local school both during and after the stay. The experience is that there are more in the study-specific lines seeking exchanges than in the professional fields. Initially, I believe that all students had benefited from a year of ‘unbuilt’, as we say in Hadeland, but it must be seaworthy to the individual. The proposers want the government to assess how we should stimulate more people to leave – especially from professional studies. Since I believe that repetitions of good examples can infect others positively, I will continue to use good examples from my own territory. In Oppland, there has been a separate service office for international exchanges for professionals for many years. The Office is now run by Uppland and Hedmark counties. As a mother, I was actually very surprised that they sent their own letters to professionals and encouraged them to apply for an exchange for a shorter or longer period. This means that there are great opportunities in each county if the county actually wants to. So to higher education. It's great that foreign students come to Norway to study. We need this cultural exchange. Some stay in the country, others go home to their countries with experience from Norway and Norwegian culture and with the ties that are attached. The same applies to the need for several Norwegian students to choose foreign studies. Many universities and colleges have exchange mechanisms and close interactions with educational institutions in other countries. This applies both at the student level and at the teacher level. But we also need students who travel abroad to take all the bachelor's degrees and master's degrees. They want to return to Norway and have added value in terms of competence, with knowledge of both other cultures and other ways of thinking. It is valuable for Norway. Finally, I want to draw up a good example of what is being done in parts of the university and higher education community today. Gjøvik University, with 300 employees, has staff from 25 different countries. It is reasonably international, especially given that they have a student mass of 3,000. One can easily imagine what it gives of opportunities for cooperation with foreign environments. Therefore, it may not be entirely coincidental that, despite its size, the Gjøvik College is also one of the few universities responsible for coordinating one of the EU’s research programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1164	Let me take a few examples of how internationalisation has strengthened in higher education in recent years. Firstly, the number of international joint degrees has increased from 15 in 2009 to 31 in 2011. Several new calls to such joint degrees in 2012 allow us to expect a continued increase. Secondly, in recent years there has also been a steady growth in the provision of English-speaking topics by Norwegian universities, from less than 3,200 in 2008 to almost 4,300 in 2011. Thirdly, in the 2010–2011 academic year, there were a total of 14 000 Norwegian degree students on loan funds abroad. This is an increase of more than a thousand from the previous year, and the highest number since peak years 2001–2002 and 2003–2004, when it was around 15 000. Fourth, the number from the State Educational Loan Fund shows that in the case of the number of Norwegian students travelling to the United States to study, the increase has been over 50 pst. during the last four years. It's a significant increase. The follow-up to the Internationalisation Communication referred to in this proposal has helped raise awareness of the importance of international cooperation in the Norwegian education system and raised current issues. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship between national and international perspectives in the field of education. As I see it, the time is now ripe for international issues to be seen to a greater extent as an integral part of a comprehensive policy of increased quality and relevance in Norwegian education. If we are to succeed, I am not convinced that specific messages about internationalisation are the way to go, because it will quickly be seen as a separate perspective on the side of the other, and not just integrated into an overall approach that we are looking for. Instead, we must constantly insist that the international perspective is part of what we are talking about today as national policy developments. In this context, the government is also concerned that the internationalisation of the knowledge field should be seen in its entirety. In recent years, we have, among other things, are actively committed to clearer links between higher education and research cooperation and how we can strengthen the relationship between education, research and innovation. These are important issues that will be discussed in depth in the new Research Communication, where we are just suggesting that internationalisation should be a comprehensive perspective. The Committee’s position calls for measures to stimulate exchanges of students in vocational education and training. A lot has happened here, and I want, among other things. highlight the work of the Centre for the Internationalisation of Education, SIU. As part of the follow-up to the Internationalisation Communication, SIU has, as you know, gained a new and expanded role as a centre of competence and service also in the field of initial training. SIU systematically disseminates the exchange opportunities available to professionals. In particular, European cooperation in education and training is becoming increasingly central – not least different mobility schemes within the Lifelong Learning Programme. The Leonardo da Vinci programme focuses directly on cooperation in vocational training and training and is a particularly important instrument for the internationalisation of the professions. Since 2008, the number of Norwegian participants has increased from 675 to 920, i.e. with 36 pst. And so that, and that means that there's something here that's getting a lot more interest. With regard to measures to promote increased mobility in the professional sector, I would also like to stress that the government has been subject to the law on the recognition of training periods abroad. A new regulation to the Training Act laying down rules for the recognition of entire foreign training years at Vg1 and Vg2 levels, applicable from 1 August 2012, meets any difficulties encountered by pupils and apprentices in vocational training programmes with regard to the recognition of training abroad. With regard to the competence and responsibility of advisers for making known legislation and other relevant information, the Training Act states that all students have the right to the necessary training and professional advice. The government’s starting point has been that the first year of the four-year Bachelor’s degree programmes is not to be assessed at higher education level in Norway, and therefore does not give a distinction in terms of study credits. I'm sure I can elaborate on this in a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1181	The President expects the Council of States to be able to do so, because it's going to be a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1185	In its full response to this proposal for a representative, the Council of State indicated that SIU has been working systematically since 2010 following an internal plan in its work on internationalisation in initial training. It is also pointed out that there has been cooperation between the SIU and the Education Directorate on a draft plan for internationalisation in initial training, which is currently being treated in the ministry. Then my question is, When can we expect this plan to be completed and implemented in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1192	I don't think I dare say one fixed date for when this will be completed, and implementation and implementation in school will always take a little time. However, it has been fully explained in the response given to the Committee in this area that there has been systematic work and that there is a good drive in it. I hope it can come with the nearest thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1197	I think the Council of State was going to say something about the so-called freshman year in other countries and financial support for Norwegian students who are starting their studies. As far as I remember, the government in the 2012 state budget made a contribution to a certain number of students in the so-called BRIC countries. It was probably close to being seen as a handful of students who receive financial support for conducting studies in these countries, which are of course important for Norway because it is the major economies that are growing up now. But I have not seen that it has been followed up with more funds for several students. Is it the case that the Council of State is proud and satisfied – or at least one of the sections – with regard to the 17 students, or what it was, to which money was allocated in the current year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1206	The changes we have made have been well-founded, also because they have been talking about countries where significant parts of the teaching is in a language that Norwegian students have difficulty in being familiar with in advance. This is, of course, a recurring challenge for us, because in the case of countries with four-year Bachelor’s degrees, the government’s starting point has been that the first of these four years is not considered to be at the level of higher education in Norway nor does they give a distinction in terms of study credits. There is a level assessment that has been agreed on in the Bologna process, so Norway is not alone. However, we have made some exceptions, as the representative of Warloe has been involved in, in terms of support for first-year students. This applies to studies at some high-quality universities in the United States, which are covered by the Supplementary Grant Scheme, and it concerns support to the BRIC countries. I believe that these means of action... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1217	The representative of Warloe has asked for a reply, so the President assumes that the Council of State can take the rest in its next answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1220	I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1225	I actually had a new theme, but I'm going to try to combine this, because it would be interesting to hear the Council of State say something about the future prospects she has for Norwegian students abroad, first and foremost maybe in these BRIC countries, which is a concrete earmarked appropriation that is already in place, and which will require follow-up if you really want more Norwegian students to choose education there. So briefly on the next theme: the EU’s new programme – ‘Erasmus for All’ is likely to become the Norwegian name – has quite ambitious future plans when it is being debated and perhaps adopted at the end of this month. The budget is increasing by 70 p.m., and the number of exchange students/students — young people — is likely to double, to a total of 800,000. Will Norway be able to cope with the violent growth to which it is added in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1232	Let me just finish this discussion about the freshman year, because I think we have good arguments to say that the first of four years of a Bachelor's degree really corresponds to a level of Vg3 in Norway. Nevertheless, we still need to assess the means we have because we want to increase internationalisation in higher education. Therefore, the government believes that it is important to look at the systems we have, because the desire to contribute to increased internationalisation will be overall the assessments we make of what levels it should be. So about the Erasmus programme and its renewal. We have a large number of students who are interested in taking part or the entire study abroad. I don't think we're going to have such big challenges with that. The challenge may be more to spread it in a little more countries than the current interests of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1239	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1244	Knowledge building is a prerequisite for us in Norway to be more innovative in the future, work smarter and maintain our competitiveness. Therefore, knowledge building is also essential for Norway to maintain its well-being. At the same time, we learn that Norway is increasingly dependent on imports of different types of labour. It is difficult to imagine where the Norwegian construction industry would be today without Polish construction workers, or where the oil and gas industry and the supplier industry would be without foreign engineers. Global knowledge sharing is a fact, and knowledge emerges in that way that the more we share, the more knowledge it comes out of this. For a small country like Norway, and with a value creation that is highly knowledge-driven, it is of the utmost importance that we have an offensive approach to internationalisation – because we have everything to do with it. That is the background to the Right's request for a case on the status of the internationalisation measures outlined in St.meld. No 14 for 2008-2009, and that is also the reason why we believe Norway needs an up-to-date strategy for the internationalisation of education and working life. A more borderless labour market has opened up new opportunities for us also the Nordics. The Norwegian education system needs to facilitate young people to find it attractive to apply for a job abroad. This means that we need to provide appropriate language training, and we need to stimulate even more Norwegian students and students to participate in exchange programmes. The right here is concerned with the greater inclusion of vocational pupils in such exchanges. The right also considers that measures for more predictable admission schemes for foreign school years and better support schemes from the Loan Fund for high school students wishing to take a semester out are important. There's something puzzled about the government's ambitions for foreign students. On the right, it is completely incomprehensible that the government in the 2013 budget does not follow up and introduce study support for first-year students on bachelor programmes in all non-Western countries and the United States. It would be an important investment for the future, but the Right notes that the government is failing again – despite agreements with the United States, where we are going to cooperate more on both research and education. Internationalisation of education is high on the EU agenda, as has been said here, among other things. in the cord shift. We do not know the economic scale of the European bet – which is ultimately the seventh – but we know that the EU has high ambitions for the proposed programme for education, youth and sport. The Norwegian ambitions cannot be worse. Our economically favourable situation would, on the contrary, mean that we are even more committed to internationalisation in the field of education in order to make Norwegian youth even more attractive in the face of a working life that demands highly skilled labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1265	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1281	This is an interpellation that I am pleased that we are going to discuss today. It concerns several important areas. It concerns family, gender and social policies as well as education policies. It's not the first time I've raised this issue. In the past, both through my own representative proposal and in other matters, I have raised the challenges that students with children face. Nor has the government been ineffective in this area. Former State Council for Higher Education and Research, Tora Aasland, followed up several of our proposals, and it deserves the approval of the government. Still, we're not in the goal. There are still obstacles to achieving the goal of being able to combine the role of student and parent in the best possible way. I hope that through this debate we will be able to move one step closer. My main goal is to ensure that students who become pregnant have practical and financial support so that they can both complete pregnancy and have the most normal progress in the studies. Society gives conflicting signals in terms of women and pregnancy. It is expected that women will be able to have children early, but at the same time the arrangements will add up to the very opposite. Fortunately, many more women now take higher education. Several women take long courses of education, which means that they must be able to have the opportunity to have children while they are still studying. Lone mothers must have a real right to take the education they themselves want. Better organisation for student families is needed to achieve greater equality between male and female students. It is therefore also appropriate to grant the right to a paper issue for students, because students too want and need to be present with their child. In Soria Moria II, the government has confirmed that they will strengthen funding for students with children. For the time being, the government has not taken any major steps to improve the economy of students who have children. There are several economic conditions that make the situation difficult. Employees who receive parental leave from Nav currently require 47 weeks leave of 100 pst. coverage. On the other hand, parental benefits in the Loan Fund are only given for 44 weeks, which is three weeks less. Here it should have been an equivalent offer. We believe it is obvious that children of student parents should also have the right time with their parents. Today it is not possible for students with children to receive parental leave from the Loan Fund if the spouse or partner receives parental leave from Nav. If father is to receive parental leave, mother may not have received parental leave from Nav in the same semester and vice versa. It is important here to clarify that the parent grant is only a full grant, and therefore there is no real change or improvement in the economy of the individual during the current period. The result of the full scholarship is that the student should not need to receive an increase in loans for periods of study during which she or he does not have the opportunity to make credits. I believe that we need to put in place better study funding schemes for students in parental leave, including. by granting students who have children the right to a transitional allowance without the grant being converted into a loan. A big challenge that many of the students I've been talking to point out is the so-called 6-month rule. To be entitled to parental leave in the Loan Fund, the student must be entitled to support from the Loan Fund in the last six months before birth. The basis of the rule is that one should avoid the possibility of enrolling as a student only in order to obtain parental leave from the Loan Fund. It requires a particular good family planning if you are not to risk being affected by this rule. I think it should be considered whether the rule can be simplified by lowering the requirement to three months instead of six. In this way, we prevent the system from being misused, while at the same time ensuring the necessary financial support for the students. People who have a child after they have completed their studies and before they have earned six months' earnings in the world of work do not receive support from the Loan Fund since they are no longer students, nor do they receive parents' pension from Nav because they have not worked long enough. They now receive only one-off social assistance and can apply for social assistance. Parental care is provided today for up to 44 weeks, and a student who has completed his or her education retains his or her student status until the next semester begins. But students who have children after the last exam, but before the student status ends, are getting parental leave only until 14 August, but no longer. Better arrangements must be made for the transition between study and work. Students should be entitled to full parental leave as long as they had student status when the parental education was first granted. Students who have children after the last exam, but before 14 August, should receive parental leave for a full 44 weeks. Students who are due after 14 August should be covered by Nav in the same line as full-time employees. I also believe that other and better study funding schemes should be put in place, such as: introducing 12-month study aid for parents with children. Another measure has the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget. An increase in the tax credit per child paid in cash to those who do not pay taxes would also help this group. At the same time, an increase in one-off support, as the Christian People's Party does in its alternative budget, a doubling, would also have helped to help this group's economy. It may be difficult to have a part-time job or a summer job that provides enough income in the summer months, as many kindergartens are also closed. Children of student parents also have the right to have a summer vacation with their parents. I would also like to add that family tax deduction schemes that are politically justified should be considered to target more strongly towards low-economy one-income households. And also: In the case of children's disease or own illness, the support schemes are poorly arranged for students. Today, students must either be completely healthy and receive scholarships and loan schemes under normal conditions, or be sick on a full-time basis and receive sickness benefits. We have had exceptions to this rule for a period of time, but it is an exception that should have been made permanently. The possibility of graduated sick leave opens for one to take the study credits that the family and health situation would have allowed. There is also a great responsibility in the study places to make good arrangements. Students with children who are going into compulsory practice will need more specific arrangements to get a place of practice close to their home. Students with children in compulsory practice must be given priority in the queue in order to gain a place of practice close to their home. Required attendance and late afternoon or evening lessons make it difficult for students with children to meet the requirements. Here, the study places can be much better organized. Greater flexibility must also be demonstrated in the transition between studies and parental leave, both for midwives and student fathers. It is that the term date rarely follows the academic year and the semester breakdowns, and it is difficult for a student parent to come back to the study in the middle of a semester. This again requires flexibility and organisation from the study site. A main impression of the 2007 study on health and well-being among students in Trondheim is that students should be active. Let me put it as a last point: students are going to attend student evenings, they're going to go to concerts and generally participate in the cultural and social things that happen in society. These are activities that require the use of money, and you get the impression of the importance of being a socially active student, as this seems to be a priority for students. Students say they need a part-time job today to afford to be socially active. Students with children have neither the time nor the resources to attend important social gatherings for students. As a KRF, I also believe that it must be economically possible for parents with children to be full-time students – to be able to be decent students and participate in social activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1330	The government believes it is important that all parents and children have the opportunity to be together. It's true for those who are at work, and it's true for those who are students. Still, it may be that the student life is a little more flexible than the working life is. I think maybe that interpellant Dagrun Eriksen could also include that there are actually some benefits of having children while you are a student. At least when it's organised, it's possible to do things flexibly and just be able to adapt life as a student to also having responsibility for children. It may be more difficult to get a working life with, for example: more stringent hours to work together. This was just a little visit to the bright sides of life! Of course, the government wants to strengthen what is offered to students with children. We've done a lot, but I agree with the interpellant that there is more left, especially when it comes to getting different arrangements to fit together and get flexibility to complete studies, even though maybe not everything has gone exactly the way one had planned it. We've mentioned the group of students with children especially in Soria Moria II, and we've made some changes, but as I've said, there's still work to be done in this area. There are several special schemes for students with children in today's education support scheme. Students who have children during education receive parental leave, who have many similarities with the parental leave scheme in their working life. This is a scheme in which all training aid is provided as a grant in approx. one year after birth. Student parents have full freedom to distribute this period between themselves. Students with children also have the right to a dependant grant in addition to normal education support. The government has, as I've been about, made some improvements, and until now we've been busy making changes for those student parents who have special needs. Among other things, we have increased the period of entitlement to parental leave and increased the age limit of entitlement to sick leave when the children get sick. Two smaller measures have also been proposed in the 2013 State budget for students with children. These proposals are important for those affected, although they do not include so many in number. Students with children today, in line with all students, have the opportunity to receive a 50 pst degree. sick or more. The graduated disease prevention scheme was introduced as a temporary scheme in the autumn of 2011, following the terrorist attacks on 22 July 2011, and is applicable to all students. It is proposed to extend the scheme by the calendar year 2013. Students with children are a large group with different needs for adaptation. Student parents may, for example: need more support because they have responsibility for more than themselves. A general rise that gives more to everyone, of course, costs more than the state budget and is not always as accurate. It is important when discussing new measures to keep it – what to say – general, universal, up to the more targeted, so that students with different needs and economies can bear the burden of having children while they are studying. This has to be part of the discussion. I would like to stress that I am, of course, busy listening to the input of student organisations and students' parents, and I would like to look into the issues highlighted by the representative Dagrun Eriksen in this interview, and on other examples I get, to see how we can do this better. Education support must also be seen in the context of other welfare benefits for students with children — such as cheaper dorms, student housing and student discounts. Furthermore, other support schemes that are not under the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge but are also available to the students, for example: a one-off birth benefit — which the interpellant had in mind — and a child benefit, a child benefit, a cash allowance and a transitional benefit for lone dependants. The government is committed to ensuring students clear rights and therefore amended in 2008 the first paragraph of the Law on Higher Education § 4–5 in order to ensure equal rights for all students who have children during their studies. This provision entitles all students to leave from the studies during pregnancy and to care for children. Furthermore, it is clarified in the law that the student still has the status of student at the institution while he is at home on leave, and he also has the right to resume his studies at the same level as before the leave. This has been very important in the way institutions behave. This provision also allows the Ministry to provide a regulation on the rules for the post-natal examination, and the Ministry is aware that some institutions already have local rules to that effect. By law, universities and colleges are obliged to facilitate the resumption of postgraduate studies as soon as possible after birth. In 2008, changes were also made to student relations regulations, so that students on maternity leave can choose to pay holiday fees, giving access to the many welfare services offered by the student community even during the leave period. Flexibility in studies is important for students with children who do not have the opportunity to spend full time at a place of study. Many Norwegian higher education institutions already offer flexible study services, for example: network-supported pool-based offers. In addition, the widespread use of digital learning platforms means that students have access to learning resources and can contribute to online discussions — without being present at the place of study. In order to make a larger part of what is provided by higher education in Norway more accessible and flexible, the eCampus programme was fully implemented from 2012. The programme has been developed to make existing training provision and learning resources available on a large scale. The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, also addresses problems in those studies where participation in practical periods is mandatory — an obligation. These are of the requests I can get for students who are responsible for children, because there may be practices at different workplaces, and there may be different working hours, so it can be quite difficult to get it done in combination with care for smaller children. It is a problem that I think educational institutions should be more aware of than they have been of today, and show flexibility in how to organise for young children’s parents – perhaps especially single-parents among students – to get organized offers to enable them to complete an education. Often these are also areas of education where there is a very great need for labour, so in this respect, you will be many who serve on a greater degree of flexibility. I take with me the examples – especially where you can see that there are different support schemes that do not meet students for a period of time. We have several examples of periods when students can be in a sort of vulnerable middle field in this area. I'll look into what we can do with this. Of course, these matters raised here are also a budgetary question. In addition, I am concerned with a perspective that the representative Dagrun Eriksen has, namely that it is not all in life that we are able to control detail down to the last date. We need solutions that allow us to handle good news at a slightly unplanned time. It's my impression that you're a lot better at it now than you were before. Where you have been good at facilitating students who have children, they also have some advantages in relation to those who are completely newly educated and are going to work in a new working environment, and who have also put up with the idea of having children at that time. So for me, it's important that we manage to make this work together, and that all the joyous news should be joyful in the practical details as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1360	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think discussions like this – where we are allowed to see the different arrangements, see the holes and discuss ourselves a little bit together to where it is that we have to push in – can lead to something good. If this Council of State takes the challenge as well as its predecessor Tora Aasland, I also hope that we will see results – not just good wishes – in this respect. Let me make a point that I didn't make in my introduction, and that didn't affect the Council of State, namely the relationship with kindergartens. Barnhagene was formerly a member of the Ministry of Family Affairs, while the Student Children's Hospital received an additional grant from the Ministry of Knowledge. After the kindergarten agreement came and the parental payment was lowered in the ordinary kindergartens, the Ministry of Knowledge did not see the same need to keep the extra grant to the student children's gardens. In addition, we have now added kindergartens to the municipal frameworks. It can then be seen that some of the student children’s gardens that have survived and for which communication has been responsible have had financial challenges in continuing the special offer that the student children’s gardens have. SiO has e.g. have to put down 95 kindergartens. This is quite serious for the students who depend on the offer given by the student children's gardens, because the student children's gardens are different from other kindergartens. They take into account the special situation of the student parents, offering evening and Saturday nursery facilities to all students who have children in kindergarten, regardless of whether the child has his or her regular day care in a dorm. The offer shall ensure that students can participate in colloquial groups, study during examination periods and get practices that may be different. The kindergartens also provide an examination guarantee by offering that sick children are maintained in kindergarten or at home during examination periods and on examination days. Kindergartens also facilitate networking between student families with young children, which may be crucial during that period. Social gatherings are organised in the afternoon and evening, where there are employees in kindergartens who can be with the children. I think it is quite essential that we get a flexible kindergarten offer. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State whether there are thoughts and reflections in the Ministry of Knowledge to reintroduce a special grant to the Student Children's Gardens. Now the kindergartens have moved to the Department of Knowledge, so you might have a greater chance of seeing that context. I think that would have been a good help. Interactions have often addressed this with the Committee. I think it would have given an extra help to the student parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1371	Now I wrote the pale spray. It's because it's been a very long time since I've heard a Christian People's Party representative who has praised evening open kindergartens – and with the degree of flexibility you can demand in slightly different life stages. I think that's very interesting. In other contexts where I discuss kindergartens with representatives from the Christian People's Party, it is seen as almost an abomination that children should have an offer in the kindergarten in the evening. The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, now mentions, is that there may be a need for periods in which an offer from the nursery can be the best support for parents, and not least for the children who are then in an environment where they are known. Of course, I have also heard about the issues raised by the representative Dagrun Eriksen. It is true that, since the general kindergarten provision has become much better and much more reasonable, some of the need for a separate support scheme for student kindergartens has become less. I'm going to take this discussion with the people involved, too, because we have a dialogue about many challenges that concern student welfare, and ask myself a little bit about what the development of student children's gardens is, and what flexibility they can offer within the framework they have. Then I can rather at a later stage come back to how we can in the case follow up this. One of the challenges we face quickly is that other professional groups, too, would like to have that kind of organisation — one cannot call the students a profession, but still, and have good reasons for it. Then perhaps the Christian People's Party should in the meantime clean up a little of what they really think about evening open kindergartens. It can't be that it's a great quality offer for students, but it's an assault on children like this. have parents who work at the Gardermoen or elsewhere in shifts. We've been through a lot of important suggestions, and individually, they don't necessarily cost the whole world. This is about looking at how to go through the existing support schemes. I record that, with the exception of the student children's gardens, there are no concrete proposals within the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party for this. Here, in fact, I believe that the position and opposition need to work together a little bit to get this topic on the agenda to make sure that we can make improvements all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1388	I'll talk a little bit overall, because this is about a whole family policy. First, children are a gift and some little miracles, and I think it's the task of the state to make the families have the children they want. It is the task of the state to facilitate such that poor finances and poor framework conditions in life are not an obstacle to having children. This is done with good leave arrangements and full child care coverage, with schemes that make it possible to have a family and at the same time have other tasks, such as work and study. There is no doubt that this policy is working in Norway. The number of childbirths in Norway is well above that of southern Europe, where women in particular have to choose between work, study and family. We have to be willing to make changes where there is a need for them. Today, a lot of women say, "I want a regular job first, and then I want a child." That's why some people may be exposed to starting up a family for a little too long – longer than they want. It is important to make it possible to have children during study periods, primarily because children and family are a good thing in themselves, but also because society needs every child. This suggests demographic development. There are increasing numbers of older people in this country. Where there were four workers behind each pensioner around 1970, there will be about two in 2030. It affects the generation accounts. It's society's life: it means that we get from the state when we're young, that we pay into the community when we have strong back and can work, and that we get back when we become seniors. These accounts must be aggregated. If we are to fund the welfare society of our children in the future, we should have more children while managing labour migration wisely and have policies that give work to everyone. The right side has a different view of family organisation. They shift the funds from good community arrangements to solutions that do not guarantee the family’s ability to have children — for example, at more expensive kindergartens, which were part of the policies of the previous government. The right-hand side calls this new ideas and freedom of choice. But what the right-hand side doesn't say is that there's no freedom of choice in not having a community that guarantees the family. If you have too expensive kindergartens, you have nothing to choose from. It's a shame that the Christian People's Party has chosen not to support a government option that largely secures the family, but supports ideas about old solutions. I wonder what the Christian People's Party can guarantee in family policy – including for students – in a solution with a new government. Governments have presented in a fine manner the solutions that will help more people to have children during their studies. I'm not repeating them. The solutions are good and guarantee freedom of choice for a group of people who want to choose a different way from what we see as the traditional, or common, way of starting up a family. At the same time, she mentions that there is still work, and I think it is especially the time with the children that there is still work – that the family will have time together. By changing the general family policy, we're becoming credible in what we're now saying we're going to do for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1407	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing this issue. This is a topic that is incredibly important and affects many thousands of students today. There is a growing tendency in the country to study, with more than half of the population taking higher education. This growth in the number of students comes not only because there are more who are leaving high school and who want to study. An increasing number of adults, and other groups, want to continue their training, complete their education or take other training that they have not been able to do in the past. This trend means that the typical student is no longer the 19-year-old who comes straight from the school bench, but there are also very many women of all ages – women and men, of course – also with children, or in a completely different way of life from what you might have been used to traditionally. It also requires looking at legislation and legislation, how these students are cared for, and how to adapt educational opportunities and the educational situation to these groups as well. We see that about 20 pst. by students today have children, and even more have children at the end or shortly after the end of the study period. That's why it's important to look at how to organize these. In the government statement Soria Moria II the government suggested that they wanted to improve the conditions of this group. But it can be seen that in these three years, extensive hard work has not been done to achieve this goal. For all intents and purposes, I'm the first one to admit that I'm very happy that the government doesn't fulfill all of Soria Moria's promises, but in this particular area one would wish it had been done a little bit more. The debate on non-advantage in higher education should also concern non-advantages in higher education, which also represent socio-economic challenges, and which could be helped by facilitating the everyday study of the 20 % of children. As the representative Eriksen points out, there is a lot that is being seen as a little bit too rigid and too little flexible in these arrangements today. You have to look at how to fix it. At the same time, I would also like to say that I very much agree with the Minister of Knowledge that students often have the same flexibility, and perhaps in many cases also more flexible, everyday life than many in other work situations. So it's also a positive perspective that today it's possible to have children during the study period, and I think it's important to pass it on to the students, but of course you can look at how to organize them better. One point that I think is very important is that you get equal treatment in terms of the number of weeks you get to be on leave, which the representative Eriksen is in, i.e. 47 weeks. And it's wonderful to hear, among other things. The representative Yrvin places such emphasis on the incredible importance for society of facilitating women to have children, while at the same time wanting to maintain the discrimination in which students receive much less leave than others. So I would like to know what the argument for maintaining that discrimination actually is. At the same time, it should be possible to look at an increased 12-month student support scheme for students with young children, because they have much less opportunity to do so, for example. to work on holiday as other students have, or initially to see if you can extend to 11 months of study support. All the government parties say they want 11 months of study support, but they have been able to negotiate this moment in between in the government statement. Perhaps 11 months of study support for all could be a first step on the road at least — it could also help the families of young children — before possibly extending to 12 months of study support. One last point that is very important, and as the representative Eriksen mentions, this is with the six-month rule, that is, those who get pregnant at the end of the studies, and who give birth within six months before they may have been able to process the right to leave money from Nav. Planning to become pregnant is not always as easy. I think it is only positive that a student actually chooses to have the child, but then one also has to arrange that there are financial arrangements – either through Nav or others – that do not end up with a much worse economy, or less money support at that time. I don't think extending the support time from the Loan Fund is the way to go. If you're a student, you're a student. However, it is possible to look at schemes in Nav that can specifically take care of this profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1428	I first want to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to discuss an important issue: girls, long-term education, family and kids. In my view, the interpellation is not only about education policy, but also addresses important issues related to family policy and future business and employment policies. An increasing proportion of Norwegian youth take higher education. The girls do not stand back for the boys and today make up the majority of students in higher education. It has also become much more common to take long-term education, including for girls. Such a development is desired and welcomed. Norway needs skills and well-trained labour. Our welfare society depends on both women and men being involved in the burden of creating values through participation in the world of work. Yes, women's participation in work is actually one of the reasons why we can stick to a welfare society like what we see today. At the same time, this has given us new challenges. Today’s young people often wait for their children to complete their education and have established themselves in the workplace. For some young people, this poses problems when you intend to form a family and have children. The average age of first birth in Oslo has been around 30 years. In comparison, the average age of all births is about the same for the whole country as a whole. At the same time, you say it's best, biologically speaking, to have kids when you're early in your 20s. Among women, the majority believe that it is best to have children between 25 and 29 years of age. The challenge is that not everyone has completed their studies then, nor have they been able to establish themselves in their professional life. It is vital for our country that young people choose to take education, and that they do not spend too many years completing it. Norway is dependent on a positive trend in the population to keep the welfare state up. The centre party is concerned that family policy must facilitate the birth of young people in this country. I also share the interpellant's view that we need to support better those who choose to have kids while they are students, or who choose to take education after they have established a family. Seeing that some measures have been taken, I believe this is an area where we still have a lot to do to give a more real opportunity to have children even if you are studying. I think it's important to look at how the scholarships work, sail if the parental allowance was extended in 2009, and there's been adjustments in the device. We also need to look at the need to change the pension scheme and how we can achieve better harmonisation of systems to complement each other. I think what the Minister of Knowledge has said so far is very good. So the interpellant also takes up the need for more flexibility in the studies. Swallowing if the digital everyday life gives more flexibility in education today, we still have a little bit to go to facilitate more flexibility in the studies. This is where both central and university authorities share a responsibility to improve the situation. The interpellant addresses important issues that thus affect both family policy, student policy and economic policy. We think it would be good for our country in more than one way if more so the possibility of having children at a slightly lower age than today. Then together we have to find good solutions that allow this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1449	I want to start by thanking the Christian People's Party for their exorbitant efforts in this field, and for never giving up. I almost think that these I'll be on the team with. It's a very important topic that the Christian People's Party has raised many times. I think it's important from two perspectives: one is that a baby should not be in the way, and the other is that when a baby is coming, you should not be worried. First of all, today we have to have an education system that is so flexible that people can go in and out of it in a professional career. This means that many people who have come a long way in their family establishment must be able to admit that they want to start their education again. There's an important perspective here. The second is that you should always be happy that a baby is coming, sail if you haven't planned it, or if you just want to get it very early. We have come a long way with equality in many areas in Norway, but we are not in the target. One of the morals of the outside world that we still have to fight down is that all of this is kind of going to happen in a particular order. If that doesn't happen in the particular order that we thought when we made the laws, then people don't fit into the squares. I'm a liberal, and I really like the best people who don't fit into the squares. There are many things you have to do here, as the interpellant has moved forward, both within the kindergartens and within the support systems we have. Then I think we should remember that this not only applies to mothers who suddenly discover this, but it also applies to fathers who suddenly become fathers in the middle of their education course. If I had been interpellant, I would probably have been a little frustrated that the Council of State is always away when the Christian People's Party takes this up, and when others of us have taken this up, 'look at it.' Sometimes you get tired of looking at something, but this never gets tired of looking at it. NSO has addressed this issue on a number of occasions by closing the gap between study life and professional life. The worst thing that can happen to a group is falling between two chairs, or falling between two departments, and here it seems that one department is not quite able to talk to the other. Here you should have sat down at the same table and said what you had in mind to cut through and make arrangements that help everyone. That state should be happy, it's all babies that are wanted to be welcomed, no matter when they come into life. Then we have to put the support arrangements in such a way that it actually becomes equal treatment, and that you don't get a sense that it's an underlying morality that you haven't done things in the right order. We have fought against many such underlying morals in the gender equality struggle in Norwegian society from the dawn of time. This is one of the underlying morals that is left to fight down, that is, we're going to decide in what order things are going to happen in people's lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1467	It could be tempting to note that there was now a need for equality in the other way. It was time for a man on the platform in this debate. Now it's like we're talking on behalf of our party groups, so we're getting comforted by it. Also, I want to thank the interpellant for this important matter coming up again, and that it is followed up, because it is correct as it is said, that a lot has been adjusted, but there are still some things. I find it strange that students as a group, who are part of a welfare system, suddenly fall behind. It tells us that we don't have enough arrangements to take care of those within the systems we have. So there have been changes in the welfare goods, of which the students have been part, but they have not followed the changes. It worries me, because then we have to take it up as a matter every time to follow it up. The representative, Eriksen's many and complex examples, but correctly summed up, make clear what this is all about. There are small, rigid, often debatable provisions that create the problem, and I am absolutely sure that none of us have wanted that problematisation to be there. Then it's important that we grab hold of it, and again, then it's important that we have systems that make us discover it, and do something about it. What's perhaps most amazing is that now that we're gradually putting in place systems that make it easier to have flexible arrangements, we're not going to be able to hang out with them. Making flexible arrangements for people in different situations is at least technically very possible today. In this case, one has to be able to say that all the things that are pointed out would trigger a win-win situation, for this is about yes, about the children who need security for a parent's presence, and yes, it's about the mothers, and it's about the fathers, but it's also about society. Parents with young children are an important group for us in society, they are an important group also among students, and everything suggests that there will be an increasing group. As the study propensity increases, and more and more people go on continuing training after establishing themselves, this issue will not be smaller but larger. Then the conduct of studies becomes important for that group, and then we have to have all the incentives in place for it to go smoothly. I really hope that the Council of State will go through all the examples that Eriksen went through, and see how you can grasp it. I'll promise that at least we'll do our part to back up that these changes can happen. I perceive that this is often a matter of minor adjustments. Predictability of schemes and adjustments in the same schemes in line with society elsewhere must be an objective for this group. It is important that a good family policy does not exclude, but includes families with students' parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1481	Let me thank you for having this debate. I also want to give honor to the student organisation NSO, the Swedish Council of Associations and not least to the girl boy who has gathered at the Velferdstinget in Oslo and made a group of students with children. I'm not sure if they will give such a great reward for the flexibility that has been highlighted in this Chamber today from several of the speakers, because it is quite challenging. Svein Harberg said in his post that I used ‘many and complex examples’. Yes, and we're just going to try to get into it, without our financial situation and study progress depending on it, so then you can imagine how awkward this can be for student parents in the study period. I have to say that I am a little shocked by the Council of State's use of concepts in connection with the Christian People's Party and Student Children's Courts. If one has not found that the Christian People's Party has had grants to student children's gardens in our alternative budgets throughout this government, it suggests that no time has been spent reading other people's alternative budgets. The discussion that has been going on lately has been about night-open kindergartens. There is a significant difference in relation to the evening doors, and we have also talked about a maximum time. But what I may have reacted most to at the Council of State was that she claimed that the Christian People's Party used a term as an ‘attack’ in this context. I think that's a very serious word to use in a slightly light rhetoric. We think student kindergartens are good, we've shown that in all our alternative budgets, so let me bring that punishment. So Trine Skei Grande challenged, that you have to get tired of people looking at things. Last of all, this resulted in action, and I always have a hope – an excellent hope – that such things as this will result in action. If I don't want to promise that if I don't stay in this room, there will be other KrFs who are going to masse on this matter. What I think is the most important thing that has come to light is the possibility that a government is now looking at the transitions between legislation, which I found very positive. That's what I think I'd been with and helped to get a sense of security into this. Especially looking at the six-month rule, which was also highlighted by the representative Hanekamhaug, had been very good. So there's a lot left to do in this area. I'm going to get bored if this is just a "look at" thing. It does not provide ‘peeng’ in the cash register, nor does it provide security for what should be a good time for students’ parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1496	In my comment about student children's gardens, it is possible that I was taken with something, and that's because I was in a debate about kindergartens, among other things. with a representative from the Christian People's Party at the University of Oslo and Akershus last night, where the very question of evening gardens and night-care facilities was up. I don't think I'm going to go any further on it now, but I just encourage you to sort the arguments a little bit, because what can be good welfare offers for young children's parents who are students, can have a similar reason for other occupational groups as well. It is the best thing for children to apply everywhere in relation to nursery services. Yes, it is true that the Christian People's Party has an involvement in this, but I think some of this commitment is also due to the representative Dagrun Eriksen and her own personal commitment to students with children. It is also important to highlight, because individuals may affect the profile and the exposure of a party, and in this case Dagrun Eriksen has personally been important. Then I just want to say that it is not just the government that has said ‘look at’ in this case. When I look through the alternative state budgets, I find increased grants for student children's gardens, mostly at the Christian People's Party, a little at Left, but I do not find the concrete proposals, which are not just to look at the legislation, but which actually have admissibility too, over the state budget. So there's a call for all of the parties that have shown commitment and interest around the situation for students with children today, that it actually has to be followed up with completely concrete suggestions. Then it's not just about looking at any legislation against each other, it's also about being willing to give the money to adjust it. It's not the biggest demands we're faced with, but this is a group that doesn't necessarily have all the world's time to do political influence work, as well as being students and young children's parents, even though the Norwegian student organisation is leading their case. I will review the examples that have come up here, both in terms of direct financial support schemes and in terms of the ability and willingness of the study places to provide practical solutions. This may be the case, in particular, in those studies that require a period of practice, which we can stress is important. I would like to thank the representative of Dagrun Eriksen and the other participants for an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1525	Simple research has shown that no one survives without food. History shows that food shortages have contributed to major political upheavals. It's enough to point to the French Revolution and the Arab Spring, which came into the wake of high international prices of cereals. Bread is important. Norway is a small nation, with marginal food production. Nevertheless, there has been a political desire to produce food throughout the country, both for emergency reasons in terms of housing and to ensure access to food and food for our own people as far as we can. Norway produces food in a demanding climate, with short growing seasons and cold winters. We're not seagoing, we're producing about 2.8 pst. of our land area, and we're importing over 50 pst. of what we eat. In addition, we produce food in a high-cost country, where the input factors are high. Therefore, profitability in commodity production is very important if we are still to want agriculture across the country. This is one of the key prerequisites for increasing recruitment to agricultural training. You can't live by well-being alone. Nevertheless, it is very important that the joy of being a farmer is conveyed to the younger generation. It is therefore good to see in the evening post this week that there seems to be more people who now recommend their children to take over the farm than before. The agricultural and food notification, as the Stortinget decided in spring, aims to increase Norwegian food production by 20 pst. the next 20 years. There are several answers to how we can do this, but one of the prerequisites is to increase the competence of agriculture and the overall value chain in food production. Being a farmer is a very diverse profession. You have to be business manager, economist, agronomist, technological and technical knowledge, and you have to be a good craftsman – in short, being a farmer requires good skills in many areas. Today, fewer students from the traditional agricultural disciplines, such as plant science and animal science, from universities and higher education institutions than the industry needs, are graduates. The farmer needs advice, both to be more efficient and to produce more and to improve the quality of his products. If we're going to recruit well for agricultural education, we're going to have to look at the entire school cycle as a whole. In fact, the course starts in high school, before students decide what to choose in high school. Secondary education provides for the possibility to choose a school of natural sciences or specialisation lines, then to be able to attend post-secondary schools, colleges or universities. As we discussed earlier today, consulting is very important for recruiting, also for agriculture. The family, especially our mothers, has great influence, but it is also very important that the school advisory service is well aware of the opportunities offered by agricultural training. I'm very happy that many colleges are now trying out the subject of work. I also hope that the subject will be mandatory from the autumn of 2013. Experience so far shows that the subject has been very well received. The profession of work provides an opportunity to get a taste of what nature use can offer. In addition, the new choices allow for a taste in the agricultural sector, both through entrepreneurship and the new curriculum for the subject, which comes to the harvest. In my neighboring municipality, Lunner, there were actually three boys who made redemption as a student enterprise. This is a good example of how to involve natural use in education. Both the labour market, the electoral profession and entrepreneurship are important in order to arouse interest and ensure the recruitment of young people. Like many others, both in and out of school, there are enough advisers who are not aware of the possibilities of taking agricultural vocational training. Young people need to be made aware that training in the field of natural sciences offers many opportunities, including the possibility of taking the necessary real-life courses to move on to higher education or university. Today, schools of nature provide opportunities for different types of education, where the agronomist is the basic plan. However, training in the field of natural sciences also opens doors to adjoining education such as gardening, gardening, agricultural engineering, energy and the environment, outdoors, etc. In addition, there are possibilities for input from other professional courses. In the agricultural and food reports, it was opened for the launch of experiments in natural sciences, according to the main model, 2 years in school and 2 years in apprenticeships. It is also worth noting that, after the treatment in Stortinget, it was decided to open up the possibility of testing a LAF scheme, i.e. agriculture and general subjects, according to the model of the more well-known TAF model, technical and general subjects. It will provide a broader platform for natural resource users on the way to university or higher education studies. After an informal consultation round I have conducted at the county council, I have been confirmed that a number of variants are being practised in the education. Some offer real-life education in the programme disciplines, so that students can gain in-depth study skills in the three-year agronomy. Other county councils have more faith in the professional letter, according to the 2+2 model. Some counties could imagine trying out agricultural and general education over four years. I believe it is important to try out both the main course, the extension in retrospect, the 2+2 model and the depression in the agronomic training. I would therefore encourage the Minister of Knowledge to take the initiative to gain the experience that is now being gained in the natural sciences, so that we get the best out of this special school, in line with the industry's need for skills and the students' ability to conduct flexible training courses. Today, some natural-purpose training takes place just after high school, but many people choose different education and careers first, and then enter the industry later, when they are 40 or 50 years old. As mentioned at the outset, schools shall also recruit those who will be advisers to their industry. These students will continue to universities and colleges. We know that it is desirable to recruit more students for university and higher education studies in the agricultural fields, both in the field of agricultural engineering and the traditional subjects I mentioned earlier. I am therefore pleased that the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås is now reintroducing the civil agronomist title. I think it's positive for the recruitment of one of the three colleges that offer higher agricultural education. I'm concerned that we need to recruit for the university and higher education studies more through the natural sciences schools than we do today, because I think it's important to have the basic agricultural background for a higher education course. Several natural sciences schools have looked for more legs to stand on to strengthen their school. A large group with educational needs are those who are going to take over an adult farm, as I mentioned earlier. Several counties, including Uppland, have had very good luck offering modular adultnagro courses. It's actually become more popular than expected. I was just at the closing conference for the RULL project, Recruitment, Education and Gender Equality in Agriculture, Oppland, and I heard testimonies from very satisfied adult students who were proud of being soon educated as agronomists. The oldest participant was actually 66 years old. As I have said, the good farmer is totally dependent on good advice. This applies both at municipal level and in the various trades such as milk and meat cooperatives, poultry laws, forest companies, etc. The best advisors are often those who have some practical experience behind them. If we're going to increase food production and make the farmer good, we're going to depend on good research. Norway is very good in several areas of agricultural research. Exciting research on potatoes and plants is taking place, for example: at Bioforsk Øst in Apelsvoll and at Geno in Hedmarken, which is engaged in breeding research. I think there are very few outside the industry who know that there are their own catalogues for what kind of ox you can cross your cow with to get the properties that will enhance the quality of the next calf. It is also available on networks for those interested. Because of the climatic changes we know, with a wetter, wilder and warmer weather, plant research will be very important in the future. What varieties of grass, grain and potatoes are suitable for the different types of soil? How do machines affect the earth, and how do we ensure good growth? What measures should be taken to obtain the most energy in feed, the best quality of grain and the best potato crops? I look forward to the big messages that the Minister of Knowledge is going to promote to spring – not because we are going to make a revolution, but I think we have a chance to focus on a part of education and research policy that rarely creates the major headlines of the national media. Discussing recruitment to training for natural sciences provides an opportunity to look into a subject area that is one of the most critical for us. If we're to get good food producers, we also need to have good education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1578	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Tingelstad Wøien for addressing a very important issue in education policy, namely vocational and vocational training in general, but natural use in particular. There are areas within our education system and our offer that deserve absolutely more attention than it gets daily, and if there are no single rings around that emphasize this at all times, we will get nowhere. So I very much appreciate the occasion we have to delve into it a little bit. It's a very central field of action in our common red-green education policy, and I myself have a strong commitment in this area. It is necessary that we do a systematic job all the time in order to increase the status of the professions and to facilitate, for example: for more apprenticeships, but also to gain understanding in the Norwegian community that we actually need people with good grades and practical, good training courses with the quality for which we have tradition in Norway, where a good professional letter means that you have competent workers who can make independent decisions and have the professional background to which we are going, for example. also, in cooperation with other professional groups, to improve the quality of the work they do. The trade union workers are very important for the total value creation we have in the country. I meet all too often people who once say knowledge societies, associate it with academic professions and doctoral degrees, and don't see that a knowledge society is about having knowledge in all areas, and that professional letters, letters of association, are important in this context. It is also very important in this context to talk about the quality of education that we want, also because some of these courses are often in apprenticeship situations, and the apprenticeship places are not only about quantity, as they often do in the discussion, but also about the quality of the content of the offer they get. In order to ensure competent labour force in the agricultural sector, it is important that the provision of training meets the need for skills in the labour market. Based on Meld. St. 9 for 2011–2012 Welcome to the table, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Knowledge have agreed to work to increase recruitment for agricultural vocational education and training. The government will evaluate the content and structure of agricultural and horticultural education at secondary level, and identify the provision of vocational education and the needs of society for agricultural and food education in specialised schools. The sector’s knowledge system is comprehensive and complex and consists of many public and private actors at different levels. Agriculture includes, inter alia: research and development, the production of raw materials and services, the processing and processing of goods, and also sales to consumers. It is therefore necessary that agricultural training is well-organised and effective, while we see that increased flexibility is necessary to meet the needs of individuals and the labour market. The Education Programme for Natural Use currently includes seven subjects with 2+2 model training – i.e. two years in which the primary responsibility lies with the school and two years in which the employer has the primary responsibility – and two subjects with three-year training in school. In 2011, there were a total of 1,861 students who started at Vg1 in the training programme Naturbruk. In the same year, over 650 students went to Vg2 agriculture and horticulture. In general, there has been a slight decrease in the number of students in this educational programme in recent years. Professional advice for nature use has indicated that it is a challenge to balance the provision of relevant and targeted training to students, preferably with a clear idea of the profession to which they wish to train, while at the same time ensuring that all opportunities are open to students according to Vg1. For the two subjects with full education in schools, agronomists and gardeners, an experimental system of apprenticeships is now planned. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Knowledge, in dialogue with the counties, will open up pilot schemes for vocational training for agronomists and gardeners involving both school and work-life-based training. There have been many suggestions for a closer connection between school and working life. I have several messages for Stortinget, among others. Report. St. 22 for 2010–2011 Motivation–mestring–possibilities, on the youth stage, facilitated a more practical and varied educational cycle, enabling all students to develop and care for their interests. This is very important in motivating young people to choose vocational and higher education. In this context, it may be wise to consider how to facilitate more flexible running through higher education and better cooperation between school and business. In Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012 Education for well-being I have called for an experimental system of exchange models and workplace-based training. This is a result of students' desire for more practice-oriented training and the need for skilled labour. I have announced a big message coming in the spring of 2013. It will account for the status of the Knowledge Lift. The notification will assess the development of primary and secondary education in the two periods of this government, drawing on the future educational policy perspectives. Higher education in general and vocational training in particular will be a main theme of the notification. We will look at professional and structural challenges in higher education. Therefore, cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Knowledge is topical and interesting as an important part of it. In order to meet the need for skilled labour, we need to increase the implementation of vocational and vocational training. This is a central goal for the government, and we will spend 30 million in the 2013 budget. for actions in the professional programmes. These include: The social contract, which we signed in ours, where the social partners have committed themselves to working together on more apprenticeship places, is very important, because it obliges us – the authorities – the employers’ organisations and the employees’ organisations to increase the number of apprenticeship places by 20 pst. by 2015, compared to 2011. It is important to clarify that increased recruitment demands on the labour market. The Ministry of Knowledge provides good professional education, but it is the labour market that needs to show what they have to do to stimulate increased recruitment. Recruitment depends, among other things, on: together with the status and reputation of the industry, and we need to promote the opportunities offered by agricultural training. We need employees who are proud of their profession, who are inspired and encouraged to be creative and develop their profession. Agriculture is a competence-intensive industry. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the competence and recruitment of agricultural professionals. An approach we are concerned with in this context is to strengthen career opportunities by opening up higher education to applicants with vocational training. Several reports and evaluations have pointed out that there are many small and vulnerable professional environments in Norway. The Ministry of Knowledge has therefore allocated 50 million annually since 2010. to stimulate cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration in the higher education sector. I want universities and colleges to develop closer cooperation that helps to make better use of professional and financial resources. Here the Y path is an example I want to raise up. The Y-road means that applicants with a professional qualification can start straight on a higher education based on their subject. Some UH institutions offer this type of training today. At present, there are no Y-routes for higher agricultural education. I want more people to use Y-ways and encourage the parties to strengthen their cooperation in order to achieve this. The relevant higher education institutions must be open in the context of the development of the Y pathways to admit and facilitate students who do not have a general study qualification. In addition, this may help to improve the recruitment basis for professionals. It is an important initiative to increase the recruitment of agricultural professionals, both at higher and higher levels. We need close cooperation between the agricultural sector and the knowledge sector to achieve this. The youth labour market, where we have tried it out, has served as an opportunity for students to become better acquainted with different professional educational pathways. It's very successful, and will be summed up in connection with the big message that we have in front of us. I also agree with the inter-pellant that the electoral professions are already opening up to think in the direction that cooperation between the agricultural sector and the school can be, for example. through entrepreneurship and the production of goods and services, and we are expanding the range of choices. It could give you new possibilities. In this context, I hope that we can increase the youth's interest and optimism in choosing that kind of career path.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1620	I am very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge and we in the Centre share such a burning commitment to the professions. Now, perhaps, the nature training is a narrow area, but I think it is an incredibly important area, as I mentioned in my initial interpellation. Is that something that we all depend on, that's actually the food. I am very pleased with the initiative taken by the government to evaluate the content and structure of agricultural and horticultural education, and I look forward to the message to be delivered to spring. I want to say that I think it is incredibly important that the Ministry of Knowledge now uses all the knowledge that is out in the sector, because there is an incredibly good amount of work out in school that can help the Ministry of Knowledge. And as I also said earlier, this is where different types of race are tested to meet the needs of the different students. I am very pleased that the Council of State will assess more flexibility in higher education, and that we will also have closer cooperation with the school-business community. I would like to underline what the Minister said about the main course of 2+2 – two years in school, two years in teaching – but also the opportunities that are now being tested in terms of agronomism education, which is then the three-year training course, possibly with a fourth year of addition, on which the Stortinget has also opened up the possibility to experiment. The Council of State also points to the possibility of SACs and that we should make greater use of them. As far as I know, the three higher education institutions offering higher agricultural education already have some of the SAK funds today. But you can definitely emphasize it, and encourage them to cooperate more to take an even larger part of that pot. So the government council said high school, and she specifically mentioned the electoral professions. That is a good opportunity already today, but I also want to highlight the work subjects. When I've been out, I've encouraged both the Farmers and the Small User Team to help make good plans for finished arrangements that can be part of the labour market, which is then a mini-professional subject where you can get a taste of what it means to go to the training courses. I have received feedback that in higher education there are challenges in financing new studies, because there are quite marginal and narrow environments, so that's what we're going to bring with us in the back of the mind. We also need to look at how we distribute study places, because if we talk about real science, this is absolutely real science in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1635	There were a few challenges that the representative Tingelstad Wøien came with, which I forgot to sign out, and where I would like to take up my glove again. One is to get an overview of how different nature services around the counties have produced different content and models to achieve this. I think that might be very interesting. Here I think maybe the states don't quite know about each other either, and they have a little bit to pick up when it comes to being inspired. Then, too, when we come back to how we're going to put up the general cycle of higher education and further vocational education, it might be more likely to be possible in terms of flexibility here, which can also benefit from natural use. It is also obvious that close cooperation between school and industry and businesses is very important to awaken the youth's interest and commitment to choose to go in this direction. So I am very pleased that the representative Tingelstad Wøien uses the possibilities she has in contact with the industries to encourage them to knock on the door. For here it is a learning arena that is crucial for achieving the goal, but also for motivating young people. Then there's another problem, and it's about adults who may have a different education, who may not have thought before that they would take over some farm, and who suddenly stand there with the knowledge they've had from childhood and youth by helping in all the practical work, but who need an education on top of the one they have, in order to do a good job, for example. as a farmer. Then I think it is also important that we look at the offers that adults have to take that type of education in a flexible way, and related to new career plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1644	Torger Reve is a professor at BI, and he travels around the country and the beach and gives lectures based on the book ‘Knowledge-based Norway’, which has a lot of interesting reading. He was not so long ago at the Research Association's conference, and there he would illustrate high-tech. He did so – perhaps surprisingly too many – by showing a picture of his brother's farm, on Jären. Although on the outside it didn't look very high-tech, it was definitely on the inside. One thing might have been biotechnology, which in and of course the cows to some extent is a result of, but another thing is that milking is done mechanically and by computer technology. Our community is far more complicated than before, it's far more technological than before. That means that very many of us really don't know how this has evolved for many professions, perhaps especially with regard to how the farmer works. I think many are attached to the idea of the ten hens, the five pigs and the few cows that you learn about as a child, that it is the idyllic farm, but that is not the way it is. Many more specialize, and the farmer also has to do it if he's going to succeed in the future. The knowledge revolution must include agriculture in the same way as the rest of society. We need people with vocational education, we need people with high school and university education, and we need a lot of research, which is being taken back to agriculture. It's a good debate that the representative of Tingelstad Wøien brings up, because sometimes it can be a little – if we're going to be a little self-critical as educational politicians – that we're just talking about engineers, nurses and teachers. We also need other occupational groups in this society. We need a very wide variation. We need people who make food, and we need – without mentioning everything else – a lot of specialised education. We have to take that with us, and we have to make sure that we don't become too one-track too. Yesterday I read an article about pigs in Valdres that go loose on the mountain and are not in at all, and that it is not difficult to sell, even though they are more expensive. These pigs move much more, and therefore it takes a little longer before they become as fat as those who lie and sleep all day. That was one of the things I learned. But the most interesting thing about it was that it's a couple who run this farm, and the wife on the farm has a doctorate from the Agricultural College. She uses her knowledge to make this meat even better and even thinner, so that it will be even easier to sell in a market. That's what I think tells a story about what the future agriculture is going to be like. I think there are many reasons why this is important. I think that the representative of Tingelstad Wøien had a lot of good reasoning about this – the importance of food production, changes in the environment, climate, animal welfare, that the profession is much more complicated, that you have to master much more. There is an absolute need for more results. What I think we should also bring with us in this profession, as very many other professions, is that choices among young people are characterised by trends. Something's pop, and something's less pop. We have had that in debates earlier today. But there are also many myths in some professions. I think the farmer has a profession that many people have myths about. It can be illustrated in the following way: being a farmer is not very popular, but farmers are very popular, if you look at the popular culture. There's the "Farm" and the "hunt of love" – the one with the other. There's a lot of romance around this with farmers. But the practice of the profession may not be so popular. When we know that only the title of the study affects how many applicants — are built up more against environmental protection, etc., more applicants are applying for this type of profession than others — it says how sensitive trends are. I think one can play on that farmers are popular, and that «Farmen» etc. is exciting. But this has to be linked to a knowledge-based society, where not least knowledge skills are put in the high-seat, that is. that farmers are also able to use the knowledge for the benefit of the animals on the farm and for the benefit of Norway as a nation, so that we get more food produced in a better way, which tastes good, so that we can all enjoy good meals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1663	Then we continue to hunt for love. It is the representative of Mr Lundtigen who has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1666	I thank you for the care for knowledge and respect for knowledge. As one of the few civil agronomists here in the hall, I'm very happy about that. Natural use is the use of nature. I came to think of Kristian, 12 years old, who got questions from the teacher: Kristian, what do you do if you wake up one day and the plants are no longer green? Kristian said, "Teacher, I guess we have to practice plan b." Anyone can think about questions and answers. It should be the case that the international food crisis and climate crisis should be proof enough that we should invest in biological education, focus on the recovery of solar energy – i.e. photosynthesis – the use of land, the use of soil or what is called ‘education in agriculture’, i.e. the use of land, because here it is as in all professions: its more a teacher, the more one understands that one cannot. It's a question of biology, it's a question of technology and technology. When talking about technology in terms of the use of agriculture, agriculture, the most important thing, basically, is really biology and understanding it falters the interactions in biology. That's what's the big challenge if you want to make yourself more free from chemical resources in both production and processing – chemical resources that we are taking into their final set of human beings. Some of it stays there, with the effects it has. We have education in agriculture at the post-secondary level and at the university and higher education level. The interest among young people is high, but the prospects for valuation of work are low. This is notable for the interest of young people. Very many young people who are interested do not take such training today. The theme today is education. We have to come from talk to reality, there are two worlds today. There is talk of education, there is talk of competence, but what is a fact is that among the more and more of those who are now taking over as owners of a farm, there are fewer and fewer who have training in the use of land, agricultural education. This is a fact. It's going the wrong way. This is attempted to be compensated by shorter courses, different requirements and detailed management. One goes more and more away from freedom under responsibility, which one could have had if the practitioners had the basic knowledge. It's a very sad development for someone who's going along with this. I want to focus on two areas now. It is the interaction between higher education and post-secondary education, and it is university education. In higher education in nature use today, very few people take this training to become farmers. More and more of those taking this education are taking it because it is an organized, special education, which appeals to different groups. It's good, but it's not good that fewer and fewer gifted youths are taking training in this biological knowledge. It has to change. What can then be done is that everyone who has taken secondary education is entitled to one year of vocational education in the basic biological skills of soil culture, plant culture, animal husbandry, forest care, operational techniques and economics and organisational teaching – not in Norwegian, math and language, but in what is the basis for understanding how biological mechanisms work. One year of post-secondary education after completion of secondary education is something that most people have time for and can give priority to, at a time when economic valuation is miserable. Item No 2 is university education. It's great that there's now a university education called civil agronomism, because then we're back to "basic". The point is: Combine roots and wings, anchoring and innovation! Create an education that is attractive to the many! Today it's not like that. There's a need for power collection, a new orientation is needed, because we're completely wrong to run as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1692	Thank you to the interpellant for putting an exciting debate on the agenda. It is true – as many have been involved – in a debate that is linked to the other debate on the value of the professions far more than we do, that we in the Stortinget are at least careful that we have more attention to the professions, and not just talking about higher academic education. The interpellant ended up with a question about what we can do. I am not sure if I have captured so many specific answers to what we can do. I guess that's because it's a composite image. Those we want to help are a composite group. It's challenging to get people to choose education for a profession that they know it might be a long time before they're going to do it. They know they have to do something else until they have to exercise it. It is difficult to find the good combinations in terms of the additional or alternative occupation to which they are intended. Fortunately, there has been a large growth in occupations related to agriculture and primary industries. I think it is absolutely crucial that knowledge, which has been discussed by others. When we get knowledge of an area, we get interest and commitment. Then there is further development. I am so lucky to have been rapporteur in an active agricultural municipality in the South, namely Grimstad. There we have seen that having a knowledge and competence environment has made it grow in agriculture – that it is innovative and that new solutions are being found, and that young people choose education to take over. Not only do they choose training to take over, but when they take over, new ways of exploiting the land and operating are constantly developing – and it is fantastic to see. In our area, there is probably a lot of this that is still called the test facility, where there is an environment of competence that has always been involved in development, which has continued to operate in development, and which, due to its high level of competence, does not just develop. grass and grass production for agriculture, but also one of the big ones on golf grass. There are many related areas that come out of such knowledge environments, providing synergies to agriculture and development there, but also to other areas. I think we have to be open in terms of education to look at new opportunities. We know that there are people who want to start new line offers, who want to include this in their plans, but who have not been approved. There are several higher education schools that have wanted to start up new offers, which will facilitate the additional use of agricultural property but have so far not received support for it. So I noticed that the interpellant mentioned modules, which you can take as an addition to be able to enter agriculture after having a different profession, or to take additional training. It may also be exciting to think about modules in the other direction: if you take an agricultural training course, there could be modules on which you could build to have an additional job, which you could either do until you have to go into agriculture — or keep next to agriculture. Research environments, flexible solutions, and the willingness to try new training opportunities that can stimulate, and that can give an interest in choosing agricultural training, must be good solutions to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1715	I would like to thank those who have been involved in the debate for their priority in the debate. In fact, I think it's a little sad – I'm a little sorry – that neither the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party nor the Left see this as an important debate to participate in. I think that's gross. Having said that, I would like to say to the representative of Aasen, who said that many people don't know how the farmer works: she's right about that. We know little about what kind of knowledge the farmer needs – and more farmers specialize in the future. That was one of the reasons why I wanted to address this debate, precisely so that we would have the opportunity to dig a little deeper into what a farmer should actually be able to do. What kind of education do we need to organise for? It's up to us as education politicians that we actually have to dig a little bit further into the matter if we're going to make good deals. If we are going to get a higher food production, as we have said in other target documents – i.e. 20 pst. increase over the next 20 years – we need to know what we’re doing. We're not just going to exploit the Earth, but we're going to do this in a sustainable way. Then we need both commitment, we need knowledge, and we need research at the top. We need the best advisors who can advise the farmers on what kind of cereals they're going to use, what kind of machines are appropriate, etc. So the representative Aasen says something about trends – and I think that's a good point. It actually makes me believe in the natural sciences in the future. For – as the representative says – being a farmer is not very popular, but farmers are popular. There is also one other thing: Food is popular. Now we've heard a lot in newspapers and media lately about this dining hall here in Oslo – it's alarming about the variety of food there. But food is popular. It's popular to be a good food store, and then you're going to have the best raw materials. If you want the best raw materials, you also have to have the best farmers – who are just doing the right thing to produce the best raw materials. So the representative Harberg says you don't know exactly what to do. Well, we know a lot about what we can do. We've done a lot already. But the reason I picked up this interpellation now is that we have to make recordings of the staging message to be submitted. We've done a lot. We have at least done two good steps in high school, I believe, which the minister has also been involved in. In the case of higher education, we can get a lot more flexibility. Then we have this year afterwards, the year after the agronomism education, which is called for. For this purpose, in the case of one year of post-secondary education that you can take later, there are already schools offering it today. And to this with adultnagronom education: it's the one year that you can take.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1728	I am grateful for the fact that the Stortinge has discussed these important questions, that the interpellant, Tingelstad Wøien, has given us the opportunity to do so, because now there have been some interesting points of view and some concrete proposals and assessments that we can take with us when we are going to prepare the news about the whole of basic education, where very much of the perspective will be how this is related to higher education. Now we're talking about an area like this. The representative Marianne Aasen was inside, who is in a rudimentary development. We know we need new knowledge, we know we need up-to-date knowledge, and we know we need a significant combination of theoretical and practical knowledge to solve the challenges facing the agricultural industry – and the production of food. I share Anne Tingelstad Wøien's optimism about the interest in short-range food, quality, and quality in animal health. Many more have been concerned about the ethically soundness of agriculture, where one can be sure if one eats a good lamb, that it has been a happy animal. The kind of quality requirements are people more concerned with now than before, and we're going to get even more concerned with the more knowledge we get about it. So I think this is an area that is going to have growing interest in the years to come, and the competence around this is very important to take care of and develop further. I thank you for the discussion we have had. There are many possibilities here, both through higher education and through the transition to higher education, and there are opportunities to look at one year in the field of vocational education, which will be relevant for many people who have a different course or who want to combine the production of food with another profession. I take with me the proposals and points of view that have come to the debate, in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1740	Case No. So 6 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1756	The right has always fought for the rights of patients in the healthcare system, from the introduction by the Syse administration of the first treatment periods in 1990 to the introduction by the Bondevik II administration of the right to an individual medical deadline in 2003. Now is the time to move on and introduce the right to free treatment for patients. In today’s right to free hospital choice, public hospitals own the patient and limit the patient’s choice. Right wants it to be the health care of patients. The choice of patients is now limited by the public rationalisation of treatment provision. The consequences are a more two-part health care system. More recently, the thickness of the wallet or the well-being of the employer has never been more important for the speed of treatment. The number of patients waiting for treatment has increased by 70,000 under the red-green government. The waiting time is about 70 days on average, but many patients wait much longer. In 2011, there were more than 60,000 deadlines – these are patients who have received a medical deadline. It is worth noting that of children and young people with mental disorders, there were 14 pst in 2011. who did not receive assistance within the medically prescribed time limit. About half a million patients a year are entitled to health care, but do not suffer so seriously that they have an individual deadline. Among these are patients who wait over a year for help. The public health service purchases treatment from private individuals and contracts with private individuals. However, the introduction by the government of Stoltenberg II of the requirement that they first use their own free capacity has been the basis for rationalising treatment that goes beyond patients. Many patients referred to private investigation and treatment will therefore experience that the waiting time is similar to that of the public. This is not because the capacity has been exhausted, but because the treatment quota has been exhausted. As it says in the letter from Aleris to an elderly man in my home municipality who needs a chest operation: ‘The allowances allocated to Aleris Hospital by the Health Regions indicate that we cannot assess/operate more than a given number of patients per year. years, we therefore have some waiting time.» The waiting time for consultation in this case is 25 weeks – or more than half a year. He can't go any further. Now he is over 70 years old and thus becomes inactive for half a year to wait for a simple intervention. In that time, health and self-esteem fall quickly. He's a retired person. This means that he does not have health insurance with the employer or a good private economy. If so, he could have entered the day; for free capacity it is – for those who have the opportunity to pay themselves, or who have health insurance. That is why the sale of health insurance has also taken place. Some 330000 persons have such insurance. The Ministry of Finance expects this to increase to 350 000 to next year. But private health insurance is not for everyone. Ideally you should be at work, and if you are going to buy it yourself, you must be young and healthy. However, the largest group of people who care for private health services is those who pay directly from their own pockets. There's also the largest growth, according to numbers from the largest private actor, Aleris. In 2011, this group alone represented a larger turnover than the sum of patients who received treatment paid by insurance or by the public. There has been almost a doubling of this type of patients since 2007. Since January 2011, more than 500 patients themselves have paid to clarify, at the only diagnosis centre for cancer in Norway, whether they have cancer. After seven years of red-green health policy, the thickness of the wallet has never meant more in the Norwegian health system. Right wants to take care of the value that everyone is entitled to the same health service, regardless of the economy. It's an important part of the Nordic model. Then we have to apply new ideas and better solutions. Why should not all those who have been assessed as entitled to the necessary health care have the same option as those who have health insurance to choose also the private offers? Membership in popular security should be enough – the public should pay. We need to use the free capacity of the private sector to bring down health cows and reduce waiting time. Then the need for health insurance disappears, and people can choose – regardless of the thickness of their wallet. Of course, the right does not believe that patients should define their own needs for treatment, and that individuals should thereby create a need by making the patient feel sick. The decision is, and shall be, the first gatekeeper of the specialist health service. The reference must come from there. The assessment of the referral must take place within the same framework as today, both in terms of the prioritisation rule and who can assess it. However, once the patient has been judged to need the necessary health care – groups 1 and 2 – the patient must be free to choose treatment at all approved treatment institutions. The institution must do so within the price fixed by the public authority. Neither the individual nor society has anything to spare for patients waiting to have a public right granted to them. Individuals lose quality of life, society misses the individual’s work. One may need home help, and health is weakened in other areas — so that one becomes even more in need of help. A few months ago, a desperate grandmother called me. Her fifteen-year-old granddaughter probably had Asperger -- that's what the settler thought, that's what the parents thought. To get the training started and get the tools he needed – in order to handle this diagnosis – he had to have the diagnosis made by a specialist. The waiting time in Health South-East was one and a half years. When you are fifteen years old and on the threshold of adult life, this is not a waiting time – it's actually life itself. In Stavanger they could get the same offer in 14 days – private. It cost 20 000 kroner. The diversity that free treatment choices will lead to has the power to change this boy's life. But I am also convinced that this diversity will have the power to change the public health system. Had it been a free treatment choice, I am absolutely convinced that Health South-East had not had a half-year waiting time to make this type of diagnosis. For how many years did the public hospitals not promise to bring down the queues for the treatment of patients with heart fibrillation? Time and again, the Minister of Health in Stortinget repeated the promises. But not until the government, after pressure from the opposition, opened up so that the Feiring Clinic could establish an offer for these patients, there was a hurry on the matter. In any case, public health services will treat the vast majority of patients; they will have the most exciting professional environments and the most advanced treatment. 80 pst. of patients are acute — they come to public hospitals. But free treatment options will be important in order to get rapid diagnosis and to avoid waiting a long time for simple intervention, and will lead to public hospitals also organizing their business smarter. But free treatment options will be most important for the weakest patients — the chronically ill, the addicts and the mentally ill. There is no free choice in rehabilitation today. The chroniclers must respond to the offer offered by their health businesses. Thus, patients are cut off from choosing rehabilitation institutions that specialize in just their suffering, such as MS patients in Health North who are not allowed to use the MS Center in Hakadal. Drug addicts are motivated for treatment, and they often have a strong opinion about what treatment they believe in. In fact, many people today go to the step of saying away from their patient rights to wait longer at a place in exactly the institution they believe in, or they make friends and family pay. In many towns, money is collected privately to provide drug addicts with a treatment offer at the very institution they are motivated to receive treatment. With free treatment options, they could have received treatment where they wanted, and the government had taken the bill. I am convinced that Phoenix Haga had been able to live well – even without agreement with Health South-East – within this system. After all, there is – with nearly 3,000 waiting to be treated. The right considers that the most important thing is a well-functioning public health system. We don't want to privatize the hospitals. But we believe in strengthening the patient's rights and using the private to solve the community's problems. Free treatment choices will ensure what I think is an important value in the Nordic model: equal access to health – regardless of the thickness of the wallet. If we're going to take care of that value, we have to be open to new ideas and better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1793	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this debate. No areas of health policy, I think, show a greater difference between government and the Right Party and the Advance Party, as part of the question and the argument shows. I want to be crystal clear at the outset – and I think many agree on this, but it is the interpretation that determines: it is democratic bodies that are still to control the hospital sector in Norway. In the last few years, we have seen that the number of patients treated in our hospitals has risen sharply, while waiting time has fallen. Hospitals carry out around 1.7 million more investigations and treatments in 2012 than in 2005. The interesting thing for me, as a patient, is how long I have to wait for treatment. When the number of people waiting for treatment rises, this is mainly because we are able to help more and more, and more people are referred to hospitals. There will then be a larger group waiting for help — which is on the way between decision-making and treatment. This is a good news – that we can help more people, and that more people get help. That's the length of the waiting time we're working on getting down – and it keeps going down. I want to respond to the claim that the public uses a small amount of private offer. That's not right. We're buying specialist health services for 11 billion. SEK from private, non-profit or voluntary enterprises. The question of the inter-pellant calls for cooperation between the private and public sectors. It's going to happen to a great extent. Private contract specialists carry out over 2 million somatic consultations. About 95 pst. by their prescribers are private practitioners. It is essential that the public should be responsible for the priorities and that the public should be able to control the Community's resources, because they will always be limited. Then I would like to comment briefly on the scope of private health insurance that is being elaborated on the question. About 7 pst. by the Norwegian population has private health insurance. 90 pst. of which they are paid by the employer. In fact, the number of Norwegians who take out such insurance on their own grounds has fallen. Figures from the Main Financial Industry Organisation show that the compensation payments cover 0.14 pst. of the total cost of healthcare in Norway. The right has previously provided tax relief for private health insurance. This must mean that the party welcomes this development. This government abolished the tax relief on private health insurance. I believe that public health is the best health insurance in the Nordic countries. In Norway, people’s protection means that everyone has an equivalent access to good quality health services, regardless of their social background and their place of residence. That's absolutely fundamental, and we're not celebrating here! The economic differences in Norway are small in an international context, yet there are clear social inequalities in health. The age of living in Oslo varies by ten years between western and eastern urban areas. This government does not want to contribute to the further escalation of these differences. The hospital sector in our country is now well on track in economic balance. It's almost historical and allows us to control other demands, which are just quality, reduced mistreatment, proper prioritisation and even shorter waiting times. That's what we have to work for. In a short time, I will present two key messages that focus on this: quality and patient safety in one and ICT in healthcare in the other. What this debate is about is how we can have high ambitions and ensure a good and safe hospital offer to everyone in Norway. In a small country like ours, we need to manage resources to maximise the overall health supply. We must have preparedness, education, research, excellence and, not least, the ability to deal with serious, complex conditions. We have extensive cooperation with private, non-profit and voluntary organisations, but unlike the Right Party and the Advance Party, we believe that the community must be able to control the use of resources – whether it is Trondheim Municipality, which is developing its firm offer, or Health Nord, which is planning new hospitals. I see no reluctance in the regions to use private when appropriate. Regions make short-term purchases to handle bottlenecks and long-term purchases as an integral part of the service. Private providers are central to laboratory and x-ray services, mental health protection, drug treatment and rehabilitation. The number of investigations and treatments purchased by the country from non-profit institutions operating in somatic areas has increased by 35 pst. from 2005 to 2011. Purchases from private, commercial suppliers have increased by 30 pst. That's good, because the purchases are made to meet a treatment needs. But I would like to stress that the purchase by private individuals is not a goal in itself. There is a public priority behind it. The difference between the Right and Advance Party on the one hand and the Government on the other is whether the private should be governed and placed under the same priorities as the public hospitals. Right-hand proposal, as I read it, violates the basic values of the Norwegian healthcare model. While public hospitals must give a high priority every day, the proposal for the Right will almost mean a release of commercial actors who will be able to send the bill to the public. We're talking about a publicly funded start-up of a wide range of private offerings. But it's not like such offers just show up with their capabilities. The money and the professionals must come from a place, initially from the public budget – the community's money. I believe that this is money that we should bet on in order to strengthen and further develop the public hospital service, not move the money out into a commercial market. Experience shows that private, commercial hospitals carry out easier and more profitable treatments. Over time, the public will be left with the extensive and complex operations and complex sufferings – the chroniclers. Public hospitals are deprived of such a system of resources, without being able to influence the supply provided. Put into practice, the proposal will lead to the fragmentation and weakening of already vulnerable small trade unions. What about the emergency response and training of new specialists? We want to see a growing health bureaucracy that is going to approve, control and pay public money at one price. Responsibility for prioritisation is shifted from democratic bodies and trade unions to so-called free capacity in the market. The proposal will also make it much more difficult to manage resources according to policy priorities from this room. How is such a scheme to be financed? Is it to be financed within a defined framework of regular budgets for specialist healthcare, thus competing for money for priority patient groups in psychiatry or cancer treatment? Or the scheme shall be financed separately at the top of general budgets, such as: Medicare in the United States? I understand that the representative's proposal would mean the free use of private services, without first treatment for the sick, and with the consequent lack of control of the economy. Investigation and treatment of uncomplicated disorders will take a greater share of resources at the expense of patients with complex issues. Is not the representative of Höie concerned about such a development? All governments in Norway have, so far, taken the view that we need to have criteria for allocating resources to ensure that they are properly prioritised — within the budgetary framework adopted by the Stortinge. It is difficult to see how this is going to happen with the Right proposal. I believe that the proposal will increase the risk of patients being exposed to studies and treatments they do not really need. An end to the rations, as the representative says, can cause someone to be tempted to do too much. In a complete uranium system, the country has to pay on its own account. In order for the country to have control of the money, arrangements must be established according to the model of insurance-based systems in other countries. Cost assessments and settlement arrangements increase processing costs. OECD figures show that countries with tax-based health systems use a lower share of administration than countries with insurance-based schemes. A publicly funded service shall be the health care support. They're paid by all of us, in a solidarity arrangement. The resources provided by society must always be managed according to the patient’s needs. We must ensure that everyone is allowed to take part in medical-technological development. New offers create new demand, and we need to prioritise the use of money and personnel. We need to improve professional cooperation between public and private enterprises. The entire course of treatment should be purchased, and we must avoid the patient having to undergo the same examination several times. As Minister of Health, I have visited a number of hospitals – in line with the President, otherwise. I've seen how hard they must prioritize every day. I think it sends a strange signal if they need to prioritise even harder in order for private operators to be able to bill for lower priority investigations and treatments – and only on the basis of a need for health care. To sum up, I believe that this proposal will lead to fragmented disciplines, centralisation and bureaucracy. It will weaken Community solutions and the influence of democratic bodies and trade unions on healthcare. It means poorer quality, less left for tax money, more money for commercial providers and unnecessary health bureaucracy. And with an expanded private market with better paid professional environments in place, then comes the new offer, then there's a new pressure, where it's the wallet that decides. We need strong hospitals owned by the community, which ensure a good and equivalent health offer in this country. Supporters of a new health market — where the money follows patients and diagnoses, as in an insurance company — often say that they want to put the patient in the centre. But when the money follows the patient, the money is put more in the center. The market works to a lot, but not to control the hospitals. I disagree with the analysis that says we're heading towards a classy health care system. On the contrary, Norway has managed to maintain an equivalency in the provision of healthcare. We treat record patients, and we maintain the democratic ability to prioritise in an area where there will probably always be more demand than there will be. And what surprises me most about Right's suggestion, it's like you're arguing that just letting go of private, demand will once again be met by a complete offer. I do not believe, unfortunately, that the situation in this area does not occur, and therefore it is so important to protect the democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1858	It is clear that the clear lines between the Right and the Working Party in this area are at work. Where the right speaks the individual patient’s case – defends the individual patient’s rights – the Labour Party always defends the current system. They also did so in 1999, when the Right got a pass for free hospital choice, and when the Workers' Party pointed out, with exactly the same arguments that Støre uses today: ‘The majority will point out in particular that a general and nationwide right to the free choice of hospitals could lead to a reduction in local healthcare provision.’ Or as the Labour Party spokesperson Asmund Kristoffersen said, the Right fought for individual medical deadlines, which the Labour Party today defends: ‘It will in a very short time debilitate the healthcare system that is just to provide for those patient groups that do not have such strong rights today.’ For each time the right has been extended to the individual patient’s rights in the Norwegian healthcare system, the Workers’ Party has used the exact same scare picture as they are currently using against free hospital choice. They were wrong then, and they are going to be wrong this time too. The reduction in waiting time since the responsibilities reform in 2001 was from 2001 to 2005, when the Right was in government. Then it increased again when there came a red-green government. It has now gone back recently, and is back to the level it was when this government took over. It's actually possible to reduce the waiting time. That is a good example for the President. In the President's time as Minister of Health, health cows were reduced by 70,000 patients. However, no one believes that there were no new offers at the time, so the Minister of Health's thesis that the reason for so many waiting is that new offers have arrived, is a thesis that must be rejected unless the Minister of Health can prove that this is the case. At least there are other health ministers who have managed to get to what this Minister of Health and the previous Minister of Health from the Workers' Party has not done. I also understand that the Minister of Health has to travel to the world of fantasy to find the best arguments against our offer. We have never proposed unit price financing, and we have not proposed insurance-based solutions. On the contrary – I was very clear in my post that public priority should be given to patients in accordance with the order of priority, just as it is today. There can only be one reason why the Minister of Health and the Workers' Party believes that this will have a dramatic impact on the resource situation of the healthcare system. It must be that they believe that patients who are being treated correctly by the public should have to wait a long time for treatment because society will save money on it. I have no faith in that. In that case, this government gives more rights to treatment than they intend to do, and it's quite serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1879	There's no time for speech. Although the president feels flattered by some things that were said, he has to keep his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1882	Now perhaps the representative Höie has longer seagoing time in politics than I do, but as far as I remember, it was the Stoltenberg I government that introduced free hospital elections, and that brought it up to decision in this room. And that's what I'm saying, I've made the country good. As far as patient rights are concerned, we are now consulting a proposal to clean up and grant very clear rights to patients. Either the patients have a right, or they don't have a right, and they don't have a right. The Right's proposal would mean that if a right has been established, you can go straight into a free hospital choice in the nearest private place, get the service and get the expenses refunded by the public. We have also proposed that if, by the end of the deadline, it appears that the deadline is not being met, Helfo has a responsibility to ensure that an offer is received, whether private or public, within the framework of free hospital choice. So the claim that we don't pay attention to patients' rights is not correct. That's what we work for all the time. It's not the system first, it's the patient first. But then the system has to work so that it gets to the patient's interest. It is also such that the waiting times go back. The representative, Höie, consistently uses the argument that there are 70,000 more in line since 2005. I'm not saying that's an irrelevant argument, but it's a lack of reasoning, because you have to look at how many people are being treated and how long they're waiting for treatment. Looking at the relationship between those waiting for treatment and the duration of treatment, the overall duration of treatment decreases. There are 1.7 million more treatments in Norwegian health services today than in 2005. That perspective must be included. I don't need to call the representative Höie's proposal for something that belongs to the world of imagination. I describe a health service that belongs to the world of reality and that provides services in the world class. I also believe that the representative's questions call for cooperation between the private ideals and the public. That's what this government is for. I believe that with good cooperation you get rid of bottlenecks, you can clean up, and you can ensure long-term patient paths. But there is reason on behalf of governance in this sector to say the following: The proposal to the representative Höie leaves, as I said in my post, the impression that just using the so-called free capacity in the private commercial sector, the queues and waiting times will disappear. I think that is an illusion in this sector, with the needs that lie there. And, as I said, this isn't a capacity that's just there unused, it comes from somewhere. In the representative’s own region, Stavanger, I met the plastic surgeons at the hospital. There's two in the hospital, there's more out in the private. It shows the vulnerability of public health services to private services, which attract important professionals. We don't deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1897	I've wondered many times in the last few years why the representative, Höie, has such a strong need to maximize the crisis in the health system. For the past two years, the vast majority of national media headlines in the health field with the representative, Höie, have been critical, either in the context of single-pisods, conversions or even home visits to morbid patients, with TV on the hook. Individuals will always be found who are very serious, fatal patients or employees who are concerned about conversion. But when the focus just becomes that, the image you're drawing becomes very distorted. I mean the shape and crisis maximisation Right now uses to blackpaint the health care system, is under every criticism, but I now understand why. The right has to create a political bottom plan to launch its own radical changes, and the new health policy of the Right definitely means major changes if they are implemented. That's why I'm also looking forward to the election campaign. Looking at the obvious differences in policy between us and parts of the opposition, we are talking about a clear direction to take in the autumn of 2013. On the right, the government is constantly annoyed by the fact that more people are using private health insurance – the reason is the discontent of the people. However, a study presented at Specter this week concluded that the vast majority of those who have received treatment in the Norwegian healthcare system are satisfied. That government policy leads to a classed society is another right-wing claim. We appreciate the exposure from the Right in class division, but we don't believe in them. The Minister for Health said in his statement that in Norway health services are paid by insurance only 0.14 pst. measured in dollars. It can hardly be called class division. Social security is, and should be, the best insurance people in Norway need. We don't need a health service where people can supplement the offer with the wallet. I'm afraid that the Right, with its rhetoric, helps to create a false impression, that healthcare is not working, despite the fact that we have a health service that is safe and provides at the top of the world. Right is talking about the rationing of healthcare as if we're in the 1950s. I just want to stress that we have a free and free healthcare service for absolutely all the inhabitants of this country, and those services are constantly developing to the benefit of patients. The right will give free treatment choices to everyone, paid by the community fund, completely without what they call rationalization. My conclusion with regard to their use of the concept of rationalisation must be that they should have an unpriority healthcare system, where the public no longer weighs the patients who actually need help first, and that in a system where unlimited resources do not exist financially, since everyone with some diagnosis – dangerous or harmless – triggers a right that the State only has to enforce. This is alarming. So the right, if they're going to be in position, with open eyes, want to give up the possibility of financial control over health care. They want to shift the priority to a private market, where the principle is: everyone should get what they want. In addition, the Right offers the possibility of strengthening the professional development of public health services. The consequence will be that resources – professional and economic – are drawn out of the public to build up the commercial ones. It's the money, not the patients, that's put in the high seat. We're not going to have it that way. We need to strengthen and further develop the community's hospital services, not weaken them for the benefit of private and commercial markets. The right has said that they want to put regional health businesses down. Last Monday, Specter presented results after ten years of regional governance. The main conclusion is that hospitals and regions deliver very good results, both on treatment, economics and regional overall planning, and that with this we have gone from being medium on survival with serious illness to being among the best in the world. Right-wing claims rhetorically that they have the new and the best solutions, but many of their proposals have been tried before in other countries — without significant luck. You might say that there are old and bad solutions that you are now proposing. The only logical explanation of the proposals from the Right and their rhetoric about these issues is that they will form a political ground for a grand privatization of our own well-functioning healthcare. Hospitals – with employees – do not need new, major reorganisations now. They will continue to produce results for patients. Society needs a healthcare service that is able to prioritise the right patients at the right time. It is primarily a public health service that can handle. We need to strengthen and improve, not divide and weaken healthcare. I believe the Right with this proposal is on the loose, and I think deeply and strongly that patients and the nation do not need the Right Health Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1914	I'm going to start by thanking the interpellant for including these questions in his interpellation and also expressing my disrepute in the interpretation of the Council of State and even less in the interpretation of the representative of Breen, who was just in the pulpit. I'm not going to call it imagination, but that their interpretation of this proposal and our policy is not consistent with our own, I think you have to live with. The background of the interpellation, seen with the eyes of the Progress Party, has to do with the sharp disparity between increased waiting lists, longer waiting times and an impression of resistance to private solutions. I know that the public ordered private and non-profit services for approx. 11 B.C.E. kr every year. It is important that every time we discuss this, we also conclude that very, very much is good in Norwegian health care, and that those who work in health care do a great job every day. It looks like the waiting lists are going down somewhat, and it also looks like the waiting times are going down on some diagnostics. It's true, as the Council of State says, we're treating 1.7 million more people in the Norwegian health care system, but we're also more people, people are living longer, and there's more diagnosis. I think what we all have to do is recognize that we, who are concerned with improving the Norwegian health care system, are not just concerned with black paint, but we have to look at what doesn't work, to do some of the better. Then you have to look at queues and waiting times, and then this with free treatment options can be one solution among others that can contribute to this. We should all agree that private solutions in the Norwegian health care system funded by the public sector are a completely necessary supplement, and that without this, the Norwegian health care system would have been even worse off. I hope that in this room we can agree that the private supplement must also be used if we are to get health cows and waiting times down. The Health Council wrote on its Facebook page today that he was looking forward to the debate. There he comes with some typical debate techniques – as I also felt he did here today – with claims that the interpellant, or we in the opposition, for that matter, mean something we do not mean, and then argue against it. For example, he states that the Labour Party believes that the public must be responsible for prioritising the money to hospitals, and that it is best to ensure an equivalent offer for patients throughout the country – as if the opposition disagreed with this. It is and has always been a stand for all political parties in this room that it is a public responsibility to fund a full health offer in Norway and that everyone should be guaranteed a good, equivalent offer wherever they live, social status, etc. The Council of State has also stated – on Facebook and from the pulpit today – that in a small country we must take good care of the resources of public hospitals and not weaken the trade unions. We need to improve the organisation of treatment in order to be able to treat more better and safer. We fully agree – I don’t think anyone in this room disagrees with it – and then you shouldn’t put it as if we disagree with it. Taking advantage of the supplement — as the private and non-profits are — does not detract from the health system, rather from the opposite. It helps to bring down cows, it helps to bring down waiting times and is also a professionally good supplement. In some cases, the private and ideals have also been professional in advance. It is probably enough to mention the Celebrating Clinic with its professional environment, which brought the ballooning technique into Norway for the treatment of dense blood vessels, which is widely used by the public today. It is true that we are using the ideal offer in Norway and to some extent abroad — the Minister for Health is right — but the question is whether we are using it properly enough. Let us see, for example: on the HELFO scheme, to which the Council of State itself referred, are the last figures I have, from 2010, and then it was about. 70000 time-limits in the Norwegian health system. There's too many of them. It's interesting to see how many of them got help via HELFO, and how many of them got help in the private or ideals. The numbers actually show that it was only 1.4 pst. Of those who received help in the Norwegian health system, it was in Norway — none of them abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1936	To the Council of State Gahr Støre's statement: I can tell you that it was the Right and Advance Party which, during the budgetary procedure at Bondevik I in 1998, proposed the legal right to free hospital elections. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were very sceptical of that right, but they voted against it. It was the Stoltenberg government that had to implement it, but it was based on the Storting decision – just so it's in place. I think it is a real matter that the Right Party and the Workers' Party disagree on the matter, but then we have to discuss what we disagree about, and not that some here construct a picture of Right's policy that is not correct. It's really unreasonable. Today it is right, as the representative Höie said, that the government rationalizes help for patients on the waiting list. The public only buys a certain number of places of the private, and this quota is then distributed to the lucky patients. Today's Medisin, for example, we can read today about the Feiring Clinic, that there is a lack of capacity at Oslo University Hospital, while there is no capacity at the Celebration Clinic. On the right, a system of free treatment choices allows patients the right to choose between receiving treatment from public or private institutions once they have been granted the right to treatment. It is not as the Labour Party says, that the priority of patients is left to democracy in the market. It's the same filter in our system as today, that medical referral and need for treatment are on a professional basis. It must, of course, be a thorough recognition of quality and subject to the degree of soundness of the institutions included in such a scheme. So there are no more patients who need treatment, but they will get treatment faster. Having patients waiting in a long treatment queue is not a good priority. It's more expensive for society, and it's not least stressful for the individual. It is hardly right, as Breen's representative pointed out, that this will silence the public for professionals. There are several reasons, but not least because many of those who work in private hospitals today are already working in public hospitals. They combine it – they work in their retirement period. This is the case, for example. at the celebration clinic in Eidsvoll, or at Tromsø Private Hospital, which I visited last week. Many skilled doctors are often taken from abroad, and doctors do not just go for pay. They also want professional challenges, and they get that by working that way. Capacity and competence will increase overall in waiting time and treatment queues will decrease, and patients will recover, and get back to work, and that, as I said, is good for the individual and good for society. It's about patients first and foremost. We want to give them freedom of choice, we want to give them rights, and we want all patients – regardless of the economy – to have quick access to surgery, both at private, at ideals and of course in public. We believe that such a system must also apply in the field of drugs and psychiatry. This is a problem not least in drug treatment. Many ideal and private, good offers are being reduced or abandoned, despite the fact that there are many patients who want room with them, and they also have free capacity. Taking advantage of private capacity and competence and cooperating with private people for treatment paid by the public, as right will, is to use all good forces to reduce waiting time and reduce treatment queues to the best of patients. This is what the Right's proposal is about. We want to apply new ideas and better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1955	I want to thank the interpellant for taking up an important debate, but also for giving us an opportunity to start what I think will be one of the most important debates in the election campaign. First, let me say that the concern in the interpellation for the growth of private health insurance, linked to the fact that proximity to a private and commercial offer can provide faster and easier access for some, is a concern that we in SV share. But it is with great wonder we see that the Right Solution to such a problem is more of the problem, and it is with amazement I see that the Right Today is concerned about something that they wanted a few years ago, namely more private health insurance. It's hard for me to get up. I believe that the proposal of so-called free treatment choice will be one of the major discussions in the election campaign we are going to go into, because next to the Right's proposal on school privatisation, this is in practice a proposal for the extensive privatisation of the Norwegian health care system, and it will be one of the most dramatic societal changes on the right's side to implement if there is a change of government. I believe it is appropriate to ask the interpellant a number of questions that can clarify the further debate on the alternatives in health policy. First, who really controls the money in the Right model with free treatment options? It is not both possible to say that there should be an automatic right to receive a given treatment in any private offer and to say that the public should direct the priorities according to other criteria. Secondly, who will really get help – when we know that some patients are profitable, and others are not, that there are some types of diagnosis that it is more likely that private and commercial actors will take, and others that are not, when we know it is the case in Norwegian health care that those who know their rights get more help than those who don't? The more we add up to a system, the more the Right wants to be, the stronger this trend will be, and the more the class distinction in the health care system will increase. Third, what's left in public? I heard the last speakers say that more doctors are going to work twice, but it's a fact that even if you set up more commercial offers, there won't be any more doctors and nurses in Norway, just as the Minister of Health said. This means that an extensive expansion of a commercial offer must be at the expense of public capacity. Fourth, how do we avoid the fact that the wallet means more? If the goal is for the wallet to be smaller, the system Right proposes an illogical system. Because when we first establish more and more extensive commercial offers, it will, of course, also lead to a greater amount of offers addressed to those who have the wallet to pay for it – and therefore also a greater division of the health care system. And fifth, how are we going to avoid that the system that the Right now wants leads to more bureaucracy? We know that this type of solution also requires a comprehensive system for ordering and reporting – and therefore a new revolution in what we do not want more, namely that our health professionals spend too much time on paper and thus too little on patients. I feel that this is an ideologically-driven proposal from the Right, where it is an objective in itself with several commercial actors and a transfer of important influence and power over the priorities of the market. There won't be any more doctors and nurses, there won't be any more health bills, and we can get a different distribution of resources. It shows that when, in the debates we still have here in Stortinget, it is repeated from the right that the elections are about implementation, it is wrong. The choice is about a choice of roads, not least in the health sector. It's about what kind of welfare model we're going to have in the years to come, and this debate shows that SV and Right are going in completely different directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e1985	I would like to thank the representative Bent Höie for addressing this issue. The reason why I take the floor in this debate is that a few days ago, at the latest, I was contacted by a mother who had a daughter with severe back pain. The daughter had trouble walking and had to take painkillers to cope with school life. The mother told me that the daughter was referred to the MR study, but the waiting lists for the public hospitals were long: Aarhus 14 weeks, Ullevål University Hospital 25 weeks, the Diakon home 10 weeks, Lovisenberg 10 weeks, etc. It was therefore necessary to visit private people who could offer MR, but the earliest hour there was in January 2013. The message from many of the private providers was the same: ‘For 2012, the public agreement has been applied to MR, CT and ultrasonic studies. However, these studies are still being conducted, but only by the patient paying for the study itself.’ So the mother could get an hour for her daughter the next day, but only by paying this treatment herself. MRI of back costs more than NOK 4000, according to the mother – I have not checked it. This is money that we can't expect everyone to use to get the necessary health follow-up. This is one example of the privatisation of health services and the classing of health services. Mother then has the choice to buy the service for her daughter or to let her daughter go in pain for several weeks. In such a situation, and perhaps especially in the case of children, most people will choose to pay for themselves — but only if they can afford it. I have to admit, I was a little surprised by this story. The ratio of hours spent by public authorities to private purchases leads many to purchase necessary health services with their own resources. It creates a trend towards a division of health services, as the interpellant also writes in his interpellant, a division of classes where they can get the most money in the day, while they have to wait without such opportunities. To put it at the forefront, the public health service ceases in October–November, but less private health institutions have rationed the hours allocated to the public evenly over the year. In conclusion, I am of the opinion that we have a good health care system in this country. Nevertheless, it must be allowed to record things that are not working, and that can definitely be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2003	Today’s interpellation leads to the following main questions: Are there class differences in access to healthcare in Norway? My answer is no, it's not. On the other hand, there is a population health inequality related to social conditions that are essentially outside the health system: education, employment, ethnicity and geography, to name a few. But that's what Right rarely talks about, naturally enough, because they don't have any good policies to deal with such relationships. So to a couple of claims: According to the interpellant, there are two relationships that indicate what he calls class distinctions in health care. One is that more and more people buy private health insurance, and the other is that more and more individuals buy self-paid healthcare. With regard to the Right’s view on private health insurance, it is developing into the pure farce, with the interpellant in a bearing role. A short time ago, the representative Bent Höie proclaimed that private health insurance should not be required in Norway. What he did not say is that the bourgeois government, with a finance minister from the Right in the head, introduced tax exemptions in 2003 for the purchase of private health insurance – that is to say, a pure encouragement to conduct which, according to the interpellant, should not be necessary. To all intents and purposes, the provision of this tax system was such that it has proven itself primarily to benefit managers and other highly paid people; relatively young, healthy people and, of course, most men — not exactly a brilliant policy to counter class differences. Fortunately, the red-green government removed this across the social tax exemption system in 2006. And if there are also more health insurance in our country, we are well away from our Nordic neighbours, and there are relatively few individual insurances in Norway. Most of it's in business, and there's no significant difference in morbidity between companies that have and that don't have insurance. The interpellant further claims that there has been a marked growth in the purchase of healthcare paid out of its own pocket. A claim lacks the basis of research-based knowledge. We actually have some data on this. But Sintef has done a survey that suggests that much of the increased private purchase we can see is about a type of health care that is not part of public health care responsibilities. Different treatment methods may not be paid by the public, such as: cosmetic operations and services, and a number of other offers that we have gradually received in Norway. Increased use of own money for health, says researchers, is not least about the fact that we who live here in the country have gradually received good advice – we spend more on our own well-being, including health. A third claim from today’s interpellant is that the red-green government ‘rations’ use of private actors in health care. You're wasting your time! The right is responsible for the rationing of public health services. Right will take resources from the public health sector and transfer to private. Regional health enterprises are currently purchasing healthcare from both commercial and private ideals. These actors provide important services that represent a very good complement. But it is the public health service that must be the main provider of healthcare to the Norwegian people. The right now provides for the extreme variant of privatisation. The free establishment of hospital services with the right to send the bill to the public register simply means that the public cannot place any order to the private operators who wish to establish themselves. In other words, the large international health group with the address of tax havens can settle down where they will, treat the patients they choose without prior agreement with the public, while the bill goes to the community. Then we have a situation where the link between the use of public health resources and politically adopted distributions between patients and regions is broken. It's a health care service I don't want. Overall, all experience shows that this system is not working in the countries that have tried it. In Denmark, where civil society put this into practice, there is now a great deal of concern that the widespread use of private hospitals has increased the cost of health. Treatment queues are also increasing in Denmark, and there is now a debate about seeing a depletion of resources from public hospitals, and the use of private health insurance is record high. The interpellant's concern for the classed healthcare system is double-ethnic of the worst brand. The right beaker for crocodile tears was before this interpellation was already full – now it slips over in all directions, and there is no pleasant sight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2026	I would also like to thank the interpellant for a debate on health care, equivalency and justice. Many other debates in this room are about practical solutions to everyday challenges – important enough, but I meet a lot of voters who want us to draw a horizon and then show that we are drawing this horizon towards us. Good visions can create good lives when we have power and stretch. Good goals are rooted in strong, bearable ideas, and our success depends on us being able to achieve all the goals that belong together. Political debate on equivalency and justice in health is much a debate on achieving multiple goals at the same time, unlike achieving only one good goal and at the same time harming another. The working party has clear visions for healthcare. The carrying ideas are high quality and equidistant for everyone. We're not at the end of that horizon today, but we're safe in the direction, and we know it's going forward. How do we do that? The answer is first to think in principle and then to be practical in its implementation. That's why we're not dogmatic about public and private health services, but we're assuming that the community has to rule. It is only the community that can govern the whole of a democracy, but in its implementation we will have the best practical solutions with the requirement that the solutions individually do not exert violence against the associated bearer ideas. The right-hand side's wish bat is the Workers' Party and allergy to private solutions. That debate is being met by the facts. For practical purposes, the fixed medical service is privatised, contract specialists provide a large proportion of outpatient services, and imaging is provided to a large extent by private individuals. Private non-profit hospitals have large tasks as part of an organised specialist health service. We're using, as they said earlier, 11 billion. kr here. This isn't a goal in itself, just as little as it's a goal in itself not to be. I believe the Progress Party over time has had quite stable views on the value selection and organisation of healthcare that I clearly disagree with. In many election campaigns, former party president Carl I. Hagen has formulated that health services should be for service on the car, where you choose the workshop, while sending the bill to the state. It is possible that the Right has agreed to this, in which case without implementing at the time Bondevik was prime minister, and the budget could be reconciled with the Progress Party. But more likely, the right has now taken this position. The policy may choose to give up its governance. A release of private health services, abruptly or gradually, shifts power from the Storting to economic forces, involving centralisation, less prevention, more specialised repair, more bureaucracy and more market. It is not accompanied by better quality. The interpellant points out that there is no capacity available in the private health market. Here's the answer both yes and no. Yes, premises can be used for a larger part of the day, yes, new premises can be built, and yes, there is probably a lot of private capital that will be invested in policy-making. In Sweden, investors regard health and care as an area with an exceptionally good profit margin. But the answer is unequivocally no when we come to the main input factor, educated and competent health professionals. There will be no more health professionals to privatize, but probably more will move from District Norway to clinics in the cities. Privatisation becomes less priority, because profit is faster in the operation of moderate bills than in helping patients who need demanding rehabilitation. Finally, the inter-pellant said in his speech that the Workers' Party is rational in health care. Rations are too many a negatively charged expression. I believe in this context that much is covered by the word priority, and I think the inter-pellant party colleague Inge Wohnning is pleased that he led the priority committees and not the rationalization committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2046	Thank you to the interpellant for promoting an interesting political debate. I record that Right is concerned about the development of a classed health service and health cows. I would first like to say that I think it is a small paradox that the Right is so concerned about health cows and so little about preventing health cows. In their alternative budget they have also cut out the scheme of fruit and green to all the school elephants. On Tuesday this week, in a discussion in Stortinget, they announced that they would not work for an hour of physical activity every day in school. They have proposed to amend the alcohol laws so that all municipalities can donate alcohol 24 hours a day. To put it this way: this is the biggest threat to a class-based healthcare system, for free treatment options will not remedy the damage caused by absent health policies. The public health service shall be the health service pillar. Only a resilient and powerful public health service will be able to create an equal supply for all. Private providers should be a supplement, and it should be governed by the public. It is widely used today, and it is good. We've heard more examples of that in previous articles. Introduction of free treatment options will be a violation of a long and good tradition in Norway to have a need-driven healthcare system and to be a guarantee for a more equitable prioritisation of healthcare provision. The introduction of free treatment options will mean the introduction of a more market-driven healthcare system, which is fully grounded in a 100 pst. Publicly funded health care, but that fits into an insurance-based health care system, which, fortunately, we don't have in Norway. Free treatment options will not mean that the weakest patients are given priority, as the representative Höie said in his article. It'll be able to lead to the opposite. The National Audit Office's report on the free choice of hospitals just pointed out these weaknesses in such schemes. It is the most resource-intensive, the highest income and education in the system. Thus, free treatment options can lead to a more classed health system, not the opposite. It's also a paradox that the Right in very many cases and debates is just busy with the 30 pst. of the daily maintenance that applies to scheduled entries, and not to the 70 pst. of the daily waiting period for immediate help. I think there's a danger to patient safety and the quality of the immediate help-offer if free treatment options, as Right suggests, are to lose the public hospital for qualified staff, where hospitals are to jam and compete and be providers in a market-driven and patient-driven supply. Then I want to show you an example from local authorities. Many right-wing municipalities have introduced the same thing. It applies to the free choice of home care. In the municipality of Bergen, this has been introduced. There's no good experience with that. The private ones, who are providers, don't make it profitable. Now, as I know, there is only one private provider left. This provider has again been exempted from providing services at night. What does that mean? Well, it's the weakest, the sickest elderly patients who still have to use the public. Right should learn from the experience of free choice of home care. It's a system that can threaten public supply and challenge the quality of supply to the weakest. Right says that increasing private services should be funded by the public, and they want more public money for private hospitals. I actually want to praise the Right, because it's quite brilliant – in many budgets they've made great success of recycling public hospital money by ear tagging it for private purposes and representing it as a growth. But it doesn't contribute to growth or less classed health care. It helps to weaken public health, and it is a dangerous development. Finally, there have been very important priority debates in the media. I have no faith that stronger competition between private and public providers, private and public hospitals, will lead to a better priority in healthcare, but rather to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2074	It is interesting that in a case where there is obviously so different views on the use of instruments by the Right and the Labour Party, the Labour Party is unable to hold a substantive debate on disagreement in the use of tools, but has to create a scare picture of the alternative of the political opponent to be able to argue against it at all. We're questioning the motives. I have no doubt that the Workers' Party, in the same way as the Right, wants a health service with equal access for everyone, regardless of the economy, and wants the health service to be funded by public Norway. This is the cross-political agreement in Norway. What we disagree on is the best way to achieve those objectives. So I think it's pretty interesting that the Workers' Party doesn't seem at all concerned that seven years of their instruments have moved us in a different direction than the common political goal, because they're trying to create the impression that the sale of private health insurance doesn't matter. All right, 27 pst. by Storbrand’s customers in private health insurance, health insurance has been in use since 2011 for the purpose of obtaining the necessary health care – 27 p.m. The largest private health player in Norway says that in the health care sector, there is now a larger market that pays out of its own pocket than what they sell together in relation to public hospitals and to the insurance industry, and the increase has been radical in recent years. Had I been a politician from the Workers' Party, I would have been very concerned about that development, because this is a development that leads to the fact that those people who have a good economy – who are also those who mainly fund our welfare by paying taxes and taxes – are now paying more and more for health care in private. Then there is reason to ask the question: How long is this part of the population willing to pay for both health care over the tax slip and over the wallet and the insurance? I think it is extremely important that we, as elected representatives, take seriously this development, and ensure that a retaining a solidarity model in Norway where a paying tax is according to ability, but receiving health care as needed, defined by the public. Therefore, the Right wants it to be a public priority which patients should be entitled to treatment. But when one is given the right to treatment, it should be that one could choose between the public and the private offerings. The representative's story is a very good illustration of how this is gradually undermined by people experiencing this in everyday life. When most of us gradually have a pretty good private economy, the road is very short to pay for it. The right has new solutions. We have other ideas about how to maintain these important values, which I believe are mutually agreed. But I record that the Workers' Party spends time attacking our solutions instead of presenting alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2091	Let me say back to the representative Höie: I do not doubt that the Right will choose for Norwegian healthcare and Norwegian patients. But the right is very clear on the role private, commercial actors should have in it. There we disagree. It is wrong that the Labour Party does not promote new proposals. We do it all the time. Among other things, 500,000 will now be entitled to treatment with the reforms we have proposed in the Patient Rights Act. This will lead to HELFO contributing to the elimination of time-limits because, within the time limit, they will now actively promote an offer to patients, whether against the private sector or against the public sector. We are constantly promoting proposals for improvements. I think that more people are going to spend more money – their own money – on health in the time that comes, whether it's about training, other offers – things that go on the opportunity to buy it out in a market. That's not what society can forbid. The question is how society fences around having a strong public health system. There is therefore a substantive disagreement between the parties in this Chamber, as far as I have heard, and the Right Party and the Advance Party, where the new thing is that the Right Party has joined in thinking about a free user choice at the moment when the need has been identified. I cannot see, if it is automatic, that it will be possible to implement it without having any impact on the budgets, that they are almost out of control. The representative, Höie, said that the one institution that did not receive a tender from Health South-East after Health South-East spends 100 million. kr more on entering into agreements with 19 institutions, could only remain under the Right Model, and the public would pay if someone would use that service. Either it will have a huge economic impact, as we see it all over the world in terms of demand for health care, or it must mean that the money has to be moved from the public to the private. There is a factual disagreement about the consequences of this offer. I'm worried that a Norwegian professional community with small environments that we have to fend for, where the public will always have challenges to meet research, investigation, the heavy and complicated tasks, then will suffer. The representative Olsen said it quite well. We agree that the public is responsible for prioritising. And then he draws the end by saying that this is what we do by the public being responsible for funding. But there's the difference, because it's not just that the public is responsible for funding, the public is also responsible for prioritising the use of resources, ensuring that professional environments are kept in place, ensuring that there are equivalent offers across the country, and not what I would call a subsidised establishment of a private market, where the next step, as my fellow debaters have pointed out, will be that there will be offers where the wallet really gets the counting role. I do not mistrust the representative Höie's motivation for the proposal, which I am absolutely sure is motivated by the desire that it be good for the health services and patients. I think it's just a bad solution, and I think it's a breach of a tradition in Norwegian health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2104	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2118	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2127	When the Stortinget is today invited to debate and decide on financing the upgrading of the company. 545 in Fitjar and Stord municipalities in Hordaland, this is by no means a major issue either in cost or technical terms, compared to most of the toll proposals handled in this room. The costs are estimated at approximately 70 million. kr. Nevertheless, it is a very important matter to improve road safety and to make it better accessible to those travelling on the west side of Stord. Parts of the road are today curved and narrow, and it is the only bypass if E39 on the east side of the island has to be closed. The last day on Monday there was an accident on the E39 right south of Sandvikvåg, where a semi-trailer with 20 tons of frozen fish got a load shift in one turn, and two pallets deised into the roadway and injured two cars and three people. E39 was then closed for a longer period, and e.g. 545 was the bypass. It is a goal to make the road safer for walking and cycling by establishing walking and cycling roads. Fv. 545 is the access to E39 for most residents of the municipality of Fitjar, and there is a local road between Sagvåg and Fitjar. There are four sections in this package: The distance of 1.2 km from the Fitjar centre until Rimbareid is restored to the two-field road and walk and cycle path Sagvåg Bru is extended by a new runway and has a 2 km improvement on the walkway at the municipal border between Fitjar and Stord, with the extension of width and the removal of side barriers as the fourth and last measures will have the distance of 2 km between Rimbareid and Vik fixed to the two-field road and pedestrian and cycle path. The Toll Request for the Toll Package The Stord Westside has been developed by the County of Hordaland in cooperation with the State Road Administration and the municipalities of Stord and Fitjar. In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes to finance Fv. 545 by extending the existing toll collection on the ferry link E39 Halhjem-Sandvikvåg by two years. In addition to tolls, municipal funds have been added, some of which have been advanced from local businesses. This will be a direct continuation of today's collection of the ferry link Halhjem-Sandvikvåg, and it will be for two years. From 2002 onwards, the collection of E39 on the east side of Stord has been funded for ten years, in combination with an equal amount of government funds. In that time, when this funding was to be decided, there were objections to the scheme because 15 p.m. the traffic did not use E39 on the east side of Stord, but instead ran on what was then rv. 545 on the west side. The same arguments can be used in isolation now: Why should 85 pst? by the ferries now agree to finance the repair of a route they are not running so much on? The answer is simply that now a ‘payback hour’, or said in new Norse: time to pay back. Over ten years, people from Fitjar have paid tolls on the ferry for a way that they don't use. Now they get 85 pst. which runs on the east side, participate in paying, and in this way the split layer is also fairly fair when one sees the whole collection over them for a total of twelve years for which the scheme is valid. The municipalities of Fitjar and Stord, as well as the municipality of Hordaland, are responsible for the financing, while the municipality of Os does not. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Progress Party, consider that there is sufficient local political support, and this multiplicity stands together to call the Stortinge to agree on partial toll financing, as indicated in the Proposition. I assume that the Progress Party itself will do more good for the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2166	To the previous speaker, we will, and now we will. Upgrading fv is necessary. 545 on Stord in Hordaland. The four sub-projects described in the case make the road more roadworthy and more accessible. Both parts are extra necessary because fv. 545 located on the west side of Stord is the only bypass if the E39 Coastal Route on the east side of Stord has to close. As the rapporteur just mentioned, we have had a fresh example of the sad occurrence, and unfortunately it is too frequent. That is why the Progress Party is for the project and votes for implementation. But the Progress Party is – not unexpectedly – opposed to funding with tolls, just as we have been opposed to financing with tolls, the upgrading of the E39 that is being done – which is therefore financed with tolls. In particular, given that this project is a route of relief and a safety option for the closure of the E39 Coastal Route, the Progress Party is against toll financing. The E39 is one of Norway’s most important European roads, and it is the main road network in Norway. For the Progress Party, it is unreasonable that such an action should be financed by tolls, even through extended toll collection on the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg ferry link. The Progress Party votes in favour of joint financing between the County and the State, but the Progress Party wants the State to cover the entire bill for the State's share, not that parts of the responsibility and share of the State are to be covered by the forced purchase of the road for hire. I note that the Progress Party is alone in its view on funding, and that toll financing is adopted by the votes of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, as well as the votes of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's a little bit small about this. Although it is an important matter for those involved, it is in many ways a small matter. It's a sort of political overthrow of poverty. In the case of a project that has a total costing of 59 million. So the drivers have to contribute 41 million kroner. kr, and one must go to Stortingen to have this adopted and processed. 41 million. kr is in road context – the context of the European road and road network – a small amount. The oil fund was 3 723 billion at the end of October. kr. The sum of car-related taxes – one-off, annual, weight-year’s, re-registration, user charge on petrol, vehicle diesel user’s fee, lubricating oil tax and CO2 tax – is in the state budget we are about to deal with, the state budget for 2013, budgeted at 55 609 million. kr, i.e. more than 55 billion. Total kr. That is why we have good advice – good advice that allows the government to finance its part of this project: the majority of the project in Fv. 545 in Stord, and because it is a traffic safety measure: the only bypass for E39. To end with some of the same thing as the rapporteur ended with: now is “pay-back time” – now is the time to pay back, and it is the state that, in the opinion of the Progress Party, will pay. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2195	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2198	I would like to thank the case spokesperson both for a good outcome and for a good job with this matter in the committee. The representative Arne Sortevik considers whether this kind of thing should be dealt with in Stortinget. That's what I think is a good question, because it's clear that maybe we should also modernise the treatment we have in Stortinget. This is not of the big issues – maybe we should get more things together in a larger plan – but in itself this is a very good thing. It is done okay from the case-speaker's side that fv. 545 is a way that is strongly used, which is becoming very useful, but which is currently in poor condition. The measures that come here are very good, and this route is also an important route for E39 when it is closed on a case-by-case basis. That is why this is a good measure. Then it is also said that the tolls will be collected here via the ferry link Halhjem-Sandvikvåg. In many ways, I thought it was quite right that the case spokesperson said, it is actually justifiable time for the many people who have used fv. 545 and who have paid tolls now soon for ten years. They're now getting pleasure from taking in tolls that might be useful to fv. 545. This also shows how local initiatives can be effective and lead to improvements. In its time, former spokesman Harald Rydland in the municipality of Fitjar saw clearly this need. He got with him the municipal government of Fitjar, and also Stord municipal government joined this. Hordaland County also supported this good project. So it's like a bridge that disappears today is the local bridge that you call a health bridge. There can only be one car running at a time, so there is always time to heal when one comes to the bridge. But in many ways, it's also a pleasure that that time is over, and so we're going to say good-bye to this thing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2211	I was not familiar with the salutation, but I am, like the representative Hareide, happy that it will be terminated in connection with this project. I am also pleased that the Stortinget today broadly endorses the proposal for a partial toll financing for the development of several different projects in Fv. 545 in Fitjar and Stord municipalities. It is clear from the Committee's position that there is agreement that the projects on the county road are important, that there is an important upgrading of the road, and that several speakers have pointed out, the county road is the only bypass for E39 on Stord. The Committee also points out that parts of the road are curved and narrow – and that is the case – and that it aims to make the road safer both for the road user and for pedestrians and cyclists by establishing the route and cycle routes in the project. The government's proposal on partial toll financing is also supported by all parties except the Progress Party. As I said, this leads to the county road becoming more roadworthy, easier to reach and therefore also a more useful bypass for the E39 in the cases that are necessary, and I am very happy that you can extend very narrow sections to wider roads. At the same time, I also think it is very good that the route is set on foot and bicycle routes and that the route is therefore made safer also for walking and cycling on the route. The upgrading of the route is important for the local population, but it is also important for local business. The expansion of the wind farm at the Middle Mountain in Fitjar, which started in 2012, has updated the need to renovate Fv. 545. I have registered that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that the State should contribute funds corresponding to the proposed contribution from tolls. The road that is now being upgraded is a municipal road, and it is therefore the county municipality that is responsible for the road. The application for a toll that is accepted by the Stortinget is drawn up by the municipalities of Fitjar and Stord as well as the county of Hordaland. I believe that the Stortinget should support the type of local initiative when it comes to sensible road projects, as in this case. That is why I am also pleased that the entire Committee, including the members of the Progress Party, has agreed that this project should be carried out as a toll project. I also record that the Progress Party wants to transform the administrative reform and wind up the system of municipal road construction. It is a debate that one of the governments does not see desirable to address now. We have to deal with the fact that the majority of Stortinge gave support to the administrative reform in 2010 and that, from it, one has just transferred the county municipal route to the county municipalities, and that there must be many ways in which the county councils have also vitalised their work on transport policy and transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2230	The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rommetvei, will have the floor once more for up to 3 minutes. Furthermore, the speakers who are given the floor hereafter have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2235	I would like to thank you for your commitment and debate, and I would just like to finish by saying that in this case, there is no question of borrowing – here is the way that the funds are being collected to those who are in need and to the measure to improve the road. And if anyone were to be afraid that one of these thin drivers was violent, I have with me a receipt from the last time I traveled with this ferry, Fjord1, Halhjem–Sandvikvåg, and here it says on the receipt that 14 kroner of the ferry ticket went for this purpose. And I'd like to pay with pleasure for two more years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2240	I'm not going to take 3 minutes, I'm just going to say that there's still a toll-funded solution. I'm glad you don't have to borrow, but it's still the way the drivers have to pay this, instead of the state paying the bill. Then I want to remind you that fv. 545 has not always been a highway; it has actually been a highway. After all, it is in consideration of the administrative reform that should have the real responsibility for the fact that a bad road that was previously a national road has now become a county road, forcing the drivers to pay the upgrade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2247	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2261	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2270	This is about stopping cabotage in Norway. Exactly two hours ago I received an e-mail on my Facebook page from an employee of a transport company in Norway: Ten employees are likely to go to the shift court today, precisely because they are unable to compete with all the foreign car combinations with completely different framework conditions than the Norwegian carriers have to live under. It shows quite clearly that this is an important matter for the Norwegian transport industry. There have been consequences for many companies, which have either passed the end or are in the process of going over the end because of this rule in – or exemption from – the EU directive, which allows cabotage to also be carried out in Norway. The background is, of course, that we have seen that it has had a major impact on the Norwegian transport industry. In our neighbouring Nordic countries too, there is great concern about the situation, and all the employees’ and employers’ organisations in the Nordic countries, Norway, Sweden and Denmark, have asked their governments to suspend cabotage regulations in order to review the situation and see what can be done in the future. I believe that the various parties will explain their views on the proposal, but I would point out that it is good to see that there is a broad consensus among all the parties in the committee that the development of cabotage driving needs to be closely monitored. However, there will be a major shortage when you realize that the basis for no more will be on the proposal is that you want to wait and see, because the figures from 2010 show that it was only approx. 1 pst. cabotage operation in Norway. We know that it was not opened until May 2010 to allow cabotage. One should expect to have had new numbers on the table, at least for 2011, so that one could see how the actual development has been. What is certain is that the industry itself points to the fact that only in the last year has there been an explosive increase in cabotage traffic in Norway, and this has had major consequences for the transport industry. Many are now very concerned about the future of the industry in Norway. It is important to have a back carpet when discussing the problems of cabotage driving, that there is far from a level playing field between Norwegian and non-resident carriers. The ability to ensure the same pay and working conditions is likely to be challenging in the future, but there are also other challenges for Norwegian carriers rather than others, which are not least creating major challenges in the future. These include: so that the foreign vehicle combinations used are completely different from the Norwegian and Nordic vehicle combinations. It is also very challenging when Norwegian and foreign drivers are treated differently in terms of both controls and consequences of breaches of laws and regulations. We are also aware that foreign drivers driving in Norway receive approx. EUR 1 000 per month to drive the maximum of what you can under international driving and rest regulations — and many times more than what is allowed. This is likely to be seen as social dumping by too many people in the world of work. In addition, we also have a much higher level of charges in Norway than in most other countries. Tolls have become a major cost for Norwegian carriers, and when many non-resident wagon trains run straight through without paying tolls, this also contributes to distortions of competition. Here the government has promised for a long time to set up a scheme, but still such a scheme is not in place. This contributes to a high level of discrimination between Norwegian and non-resident carriers. In fact, it is rather disappointing to note that the government in this case does not have a single proposal on how we can do something about the problems I have raised here, and that a combined Norwegian transport industry on both the employee and employer sides gives clear messages about, at least to storage representatives. I assume that the State Council has also received the same concerns from the transport industry. I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter and hope that a Central Party Council, which is not in favour of the EU and the EEA Agreement, will actually now follow up and dare to challenge the EU system in a legislative process that is about to break the Norwegian transport industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2291	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2294	It has been a very good commitment from the Progress Party in this matter over a long time, including a seminar here on the Storting that I attended. It is good that we get this issue across, because unlike the Minister of Transport and SV is the Progress Party for the EEA Agreement because they think he is good. For SV, the EEA Agreement is the import of legal policy. That's what we see in this case as well. It is simply this competition, which is to be cross-border, that the Progress Party really wants more of also in Norway, which will, of course, lead to someone entering the Shift because they are going to compete with each other all over the world. This is good progress party policy. This time it frames – I had almost said – among other things. Geir Mo and Lastebileigarbundet, and add that runs a truck. I agree with the LVG and the truck drivers that we must follow closely – and the government does. I believe that the trustworthiness of the Progress Party in this matter is very small. Supporting drivers in this matter is good – so is SV – but the policy of the Progress Party is just getting more competition, privatising, getting more on offer. Then someone has to lose – that’s what progress party policy is – as we got illustrated when we were in Spain, where all transport industries have to have the same conditions, and then there are many empty airports because it is not possible to create competition in all areas. Of course, when it comes to tolls, it is annoying that one has not got a system with the EU to ensure that everyone pays tolls. It'll work on it. I agree with the representative of Hoksrud that this must be put in place. The problem has been that we have to do this in cooperation with, among other things. Sweden and the EU. So we can't just do it ourselves. Because of the EEA agreement that Bård Hoksrud considered so good, we do not have the right of self-determination that we should initially have. It is good that the Progress Party takes up a matter that actually revolves around, among other things. on the rights of workers and on social dumping. I sincerely hope that the Norwegian people will not get a Right Party government, because then we will really get social dumping in all areas of employment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2308	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the job, even though I disagree with the proposals contained in this case. I am pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss various aspects of cabotage. The Committee agrees that the development of cabotage driving needs to be closely monitored. The numbers that we have as the facts are the numbers from the SSB from 2010. They show that the freight operations carried out as cabotage in 2010 were of 1 pst. The signals coming from both workers and employers in the transport sector indicate that the volume is much larger. The new rules for cabotage came into force in May 2010, so it is not unreasonable to believe that the scope is now greater than in 2010. We need a new factual basis, and therefore I am pleased that the Minister for Transport wrote in his letter to the Committee that the Department is now monitoring the scale and development of cabotage driving. The message from the industry is clear: this is more widespread than the 2010 figures suggest. Therefore, an up-to-date factual basis is important when we discuss these issues further. The representative Hoksrud presented the views of the Party of Advancement. They are alone in promoting the proposals on the matter. I'll come back to them. However, I am pleased that there is an overall committee that expresses concern about the development of the Norwegian transport industry and the importance of avoiding social dumping. It is gratifying for a worker party to see that the Right is also concerned with social dumping. As a no-man, it is particularly gratifying to see that the Right shares the concern about the EU Commission's objective of further liberalising cabotage transport, although I am somewhat uncertain about the depth of the concern about liberalisation in both the Right and the Advance Party. We have quite a few things in this Chamber where these two parties are at the forefront of liberalisation. So in this case, they're against it. There is reason to take the signals from the European Commission seriously. A full liberalisation of cabotage would be very serious for the Norwegian transport sector. Governments have already had discussions with their Swedish colleague on common Nordic positions on future cabotage legislation. The Labour Party believes that we must have stricter rules for cabotage operations, and I am pleased that a large majority in the Committee supports them. One thing is today's legislation. Another thing is a possible breach of the law. The Labour Party believes that increased and more targeted efforts are important to detect breaches of current legislation. Some believe that there is little break, others believe that the scope is larger. The only way to find out is through increased control activities. The fight against social dumping is important for the Workers' Party and the Government. The government, through various measures, has shown that it takes this very seriously. There is little doubt that the transport industry encounters increased competition from foreign operators who can offer transport at a lower price than Norwegian carriers can. The Labour Party also believes that we need to look at measures to prevent social dumping in the transport sector. It is a complex industry with many small operators. In other sectors, we have introduced joint and several liability. The working party believes this is the way to go for the transport industry as well. I know that the government is working on measures to prevent social dumping in the transport sector, and I look forward to the government's follow-up. In the light of what I have said – and the State Council wrote in its reply to the Committee – the Labour Party will not support the proposal in this case, namely the suspension of cabotage rules in road freight transport in Norway. But we will follow the matter closely and expect a rapid follow-up from the government on the things the Minister for Transport has warned: a better basis of fact and measures to prevent social dumping in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2327	Let me begin by pointing out that Norway has been involved in the internal market in transport since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement in 1992-1993 – an agreement which, as a representative of the rest, voted against and continues to see that there are unfortunate aspects to it. However, it is clear that, after that time – including the government of which I am part – the agreement underpins Norway’s cooperation with the EU, also in transport policy areas. Thus, the rules on cabotage operations in the freight transport sector have been part of Norwegian law since 1994 when Regulation No. 3118/93 laying down the conditions for the freedom of carriers to carry out national road haulage services in a Member State in which they are not resident was incorporated into the Professional Transport Act. Until 1998, cabotage operations were carried out under an authorisation system, but since 1998, non-resident carriers have been allowed to carry out transport cabotage temporarily in Norway, without the word actually being defined in the Regulation. The new rules of Regulation No. 1072/2009, which has been in force since May 2010 in the EU, means that carriers can carry out three missions within a seven-day period in connection with an incoming international cargo. The new rules are an adjustment and clarification of the rules on cabotage, which make it more possible for control authorities to verify that legal cabotage operations are carried out in line with the legislation that has existed in Norway since 1994. The new rules on cabotage have been incorporated into Norwegian law by Regulation No 26 March 2003 No. 402. However, I understand that the industry is concerned about the different framework conditions that they experience between Norwegian and non-resident carriers – perhaps in particular the inequality between Norwegian and foreign drivers’ pay and working conditions. The government is concerned that a future legislation on cabotage should take account of social differences, and the government will continue to work towards a common Nordic position on a future cabotage code – a position that can be communicated to the EU Commission. There has been contact from the Norwegian side to the Swedish side to try to take the initiative for a common Nordic position in this way. I would also like to follow closely the Committee's request to follow developments in cabotage transport. The Ministry of Transport is monitoring the development of cabotage operation. In addition, all EU countries – as well as EFTA countries – must also comply with a statistical regulation on the carriage of goods by road, where data reporting and data compilation are carried out equally throughout the EEA territory. In Norway, the Central Statistical Office is following that regulation, and statistics on cabotage operations are available for the years from 2000 to 2010. Kabotage share in Norway, measured in tonne-kilometres, has been between 1 and 1,5 pst. in these years. The figures for 2011 have just arrived, and they show a share of cabotage of 2.31 p.m. This is an increase from 2010. However, the Ministry will continue to expand its work on monitoring the development of cabotage driving, not least due to: the signals coming from the industry on this problem. The proposal for a representative refers to its full potential. Article 10 of Regulation 1072/2009 to ask ESA to suspend the validity of the cabotage rules for a period of up to six months — which may be extended. To that end, I would say that serious disruptions in the transport market must be detected in order to stop that access to cabotage. At present, there is no evidence that cabotage has led to the type of serious market disturbance. Although there is an increase in cabotage from 2010 to 2011, the total share of cabotage in the market remains low. And as far as I'm aware, the ministers in Denmark and Sweden have not accepted that kind of temporary stop in cabotage. Furthermore, it should be noted that the presence of foreign carriers in the market has resulted in criminal subcultures associated with driving. It is important to note that those issues do not relate specifically to the cabotage problem. The majority of non-resident vehicles in Norway carry out fully liberalised international transport, and it is important to distinguish the general issues related to crime from purely cabotage problems. The ministry is busy with increased control activities, and I can get back to it a little bit. However, vehicle checks, winter equipment checks and driver driving and rest checks follow the same rules and will be prioritised in the same way as for Norwegian vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2344	There will be a line change – including with the participation of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2347	It was nice that the Council of State would answer questions. I just want to challenge the Minister of Transport, because Freddy de Ruiter says that the government is working on concrete proposals. Then I would like to know from the Minister for Transport: What are the concrete proposals that the government is working on? And I want to challenge the Council of State on one more thing. As the Council of State from a party that does not want the EEA Agreement, and would prefer to notify Norway as much as possible of it, it is a great paradox that we are fighting the EU case here and are not looking at the possibility of stopping cabotage operations in the same way as we have stopped the possibility of liberalising letters under 50 grams. I think this is a more important thing than a letter under 50 grams.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2356	First, I apologize to the representatives for being a little unfamiliar with the conditions in Stortinget after seven years. Of course, I would like to answer questions from the representative of Hoksrud. First, I'm part of a government with three parties. If the Hoksruds party once comes into government, he will also be part of a government with different parties with different views on the EEA Agreement. I think that the risk is great, even for Hoksrud's part, because he has to deal with the fact that the EEA is the basis for what he is doing. It is true that in some areas of transport we have been able to obtain exemptions from, or adaptation of, EU legislation based on specific Norwegian circumstances. I could mention several examples of that, and it's good that Hoksrud has noticed them. In this area, I think it's more difficult, but I think that adopting a common Nordic approach to a future cabotage code is more likely to take into account, among other things. social conditions for drivers are an important way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2365	All cabotage operations in Norway are exempted from the rule and are currently being exempted. What we are experiencing today is that the state through the state council is the active owner of several major transport companies. This implies that the State is a regulator, an inspector and is responsible for all legal designs, while the State is an operator and owner, where the Council of State is a general meeting of the companies. Is the Council of State comfortable with its capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2375	In a number of areas in a number of ministries, the government will be both authority and regulator and will also be the owner of state activities. It is not abnormal, nor is it isolated to the Ministry of Transport. This is done in many departments – in the Ministry of Oil and Energy and also in the Ministry of Industry. I expect that state activities, in so far as they use international carriers and to the extent that they use the access to cabotage provided in the latest regulation of 2010, do so in such a way that it is lawful, and that it also implies that one has good social conditions and pay and working conditions for drivers. I have seen that there have been questions about it, and that is of course something that you will discuss in the owner's dialogue with those companies. But it is clear that if one is to override the companies in this way, it must be done in the usual way, in accordance with the principles of ownership and corporate governance adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2382	The chord shift has been completed. Is the representative of Hoksrud to have posts in the change of line or file rapporteur's post? It would have been easier in itself to take it while he was standing here, but Hoksrud is cordially welcome to take the line number three.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2387	The reason why I didn't ask for it then is because I didn't know how many other parties would ask for a line. But when it's available, I'd like to challenge the state council further. She didn't answer my question, so I'm just going to ask one question, and I hope the Council of State can be concrete: What concrete measures does the government work with, which will do something about this and remedy the situation of the Norwegian transport industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2392	To be concrete, we are therefore working towards a common Nordic approach to a future cabotage code that can be communicated to the EU and which can take more account of social differences and pay and employment conditions for drivers. We work to ensure that all control activities are equal for Norwegian and non-resident carriers. This applies to the technical condition of the vehicle, to driving and rest periods for drivers, and also to winter equipment of the vehicles. We work for a mandatory piece for heavy-duty vehicles so that they also have to pay tolls on Norwegian roads. This regulation is now being consulted by the Directorate of Roads and will be able to be dealt with by the Department and the Government quite quickly — just to mention some of the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2399	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2404	The representative of Langeland was involved in the EEA Agreement. Of course, the EEA Agreement is good for Norway, but there are actually things that are not good sometimes. Then a little bit of the challenge is that we have a government that is very rarely challenging. The only time – at least as long as I’ve been sitting on the Stortinget – where you really have to challenge, was for letters under 50 grams. I think there are other things that are much more important to challenge, and where it is important to say that here we actually want to rule more in Norway. The fact that the representative of Langeland chooses to withdraw the former Secretary-General into the Advance Party only shows the level at which he chooses to comply. We have been working on this issue of cabotage long before it was time for him to start working for the Norwegian Lastebileier-Federal Association. This is an important issue for both employers and workers in the transport sector. When the representative of Langeland was also in Spain, it may be possible to bring with him who has run Spain. It is probably largely socialists who have been responsible for the fact that many airports are now empty and that planes are not flying there. That is the problem of Spain. We're going to have to clean up the challenges we have in Norway instead. I'm very happy that the Council of State also says that we need a new factual basis. But I don't understand that it's going to be so hard to get it in place. Now the state council says there's been some new numbers. However, the industry is concerned because they believe that there is serious under-reporting in the statistics on cabotage driving in Norway, and that the basis and figures we get now are deficient. I guess you'll also see a little bit about the situation in the industry. I am glad that the Council of State came up with some measures to work with, but most of it was really a lot of talk. You have to talk to our Nordic colleagues, and I'm sure that's good. The only thing I registered that the Council of State is at least now clear, is this around tolls and chips and getting that system in place. But this government has promised for many years now, and it should have been in place a long time ago. Now they say that it's out at the hearing, and you're about to know when it's going to be cleaned up. The industry really doesn't have time to wait. They have wanted this to be in place a long time ago and have taken it up many times with various Transport Ministers from the Center Party. They expect it to come into place – actually it was in place yesterday – and I have a great understanding of that. So I hope that not only does there continue to be broad agreement on the challenges, but little concrete happens. At least we have put forward a concrete proposal that could contribute positively to a transport industry that is currently struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2419	It is a rare experience that a Central Party State Council is the warmest promoter to protect EU regulations. Not least when we know that with today's legislation, the transport industry in Norway will face major challenges in the future. It is a cross-thinking that all organisations on both the employers’ and workers’ sides of transport of goods – not only in Norway but in the Nordic region – jointly demand action from the Ministers for Transport in all Nordic countries and request the suspension of cabotage rules. The Council of State is quite right that Sweden, as an EU country, which is otherwise not Norway, has not intervened in the access of foreign operators to cabotage. The Council of State is also quite right in saying that by far the majority of foreign actors do not commit crime, but we cannot allow ourselves to be paralysed when crime is committed, which unfortunately is the case. At present, Norway does not have a crime problem as great as Sweden in terms of organised crime and trafficking linked to cabotage, but the question is whether we want Swedish states or not. If we don't want to learn from the bad experiences our neighbours in the east have had, it'll be almost like welcoming this to Norway. Much is important in this matter, and we lack a lot of statistics in this area. And even though what I'm now saying doesn't have a direct connection to this case, it actually belongs to the larger picture. I have an accident statistics for a heavier vehicle that, in January 2012, shows that of 257 incidents involving a heavier vehicle, 138 were involved with a non-resident vehicle. In February there were 199 events, of which foreign vehicles were involved in 83. In the winter months, foreign heavier vehicles are involved in over 50 pst. of incidents or accidents, at the same time as they occur approx. 20 pst. by the freight cargo. Foreign heavier vehicle is overrepresented. One of the reasons is a lack of control. Did I hear the word ‘zero vision’, or did I hear completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2433	As I said in my first post: I want to pink the Progress Party for clicking on this case, to hold a seminar and submit a Document No. Eight proposals, and to address a problem that is important both for truck owners and for those who are running. It's fine. But what I'm trying to get is that there's something wrong with this, because it's actually free competition that the Progress Party wants in all areas. And what does free competition mean? Well, that also means that wages and pensions and things like that come under pressure. If you're going to get your expenses down, you're going to have to figure it out. You don't want to talk about it. One example is that the Progress Party in the State Budget cuts $1.5 billion. I'll pay you in sick pay. Let me tell you something about who we really are dealing with. Car, lorry and lorry exposures are great, but there is this policy there will be more in Norway if the Progress Party ever gets in position, and it must be honest enough to say so. So we don't want Swedish states in Norway. Now we heard from the Gothenburg Police how crime is developing in this area. He didn't come to Norway. But as the council said, we're following this closely. We've discussed this issue many times in the Red-Green parties, and we're going to discuss it several times, but as the Council of State says, we need more facts in Norway about this. And we don't have Swedish states yet. In Sweden, one of them has a right-wing government, so it follows a lot more with that too, I'm sure. If you go to a bar in Oslo, you just hit a Swedes, so it must be the employment policy of Reinfeldt that goes out in Norway. There is one example of what policy we are waiting for. Now we're not going to pull this thing out, but a problem that we'll also have to face is the EU's 4th Railway Directive, which includes: opens up to free competition on the railways. This is progress party policy, so it will probably make the Progress Party happy. But it will also lead to pressure on the rights of workers and, most likely, to the seventh and, lastly, social dumping which free-market liberalism leads to. It's good that the Progress Party is engaged, but hollow when one hears what it's really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2462	Planning the Ringerix Railway has a long history. Already in 1858, 154 years ago, plans were launched for a railway between Hönefoss and Oslo. The intention – the time then – was primarily to establish the shortest and fastest connection to the then Kristiania and to large parts of the East. In 1891 and 1892, the Ministry of Transport presented two propositions to the Stortinget on a main trajectory for the Bergensbanen, which was then adopted. The Storting postponed the case and later decided to establish a connection from Hønefoss via Roa to Gjøvikbanen. The recent history of the Ringerix Railway is the result of a maintenance decision taken by the Stortinget in 1992, as part of a settlement in connection with the decision on the route between Oslo and Bergen. In that decision, there was also a long road tunnel in Lærdal. In the light of this Decision, the NSB presented an impact assessment and a railway investigation for the Ringeriksbahn in 1993 and an additional investigation in 1995. The majority of the population agreed in Sandvika as a starting point, but wanted a better basis before choosing the corridor. In 1999, the basis for the impact assessment phase 2 was completed, one for each of the two relevant corridors, Åsa and Kroksund. So the Stortinget took a decision in 2002, which read: ‘The size consents to the further planning of the Bergensbanen abbreviation – Ringeriksbanen – starting from the corridor over Åsa’.» That's how far we were. A new concept selection study for the Ringeriksban started in 2005 and was completed in 2008/2009. Since then it has been quite quiet, until someone found the KVU in a drawer in the fall and discovered that it was not good enough as a basis for decision making for further planning. So it took three years to discover that the ambitions of the majority of the population for new railways in Norway, adopted in the autumn of 2008, were no longer compatible with the planning basis for one of the most profitable railway projects in the country. The abbreviation of the Bergensbanen, with the Ringeriksbahnen, means a new railway crossing between Sandvika and Hønefoss. The track will shorten the Bergensbahnen with almost an hour travel time between Oslo and Bergen, and the journey time between Oslo and Hönefoss will be down to 27 minutes in the fastest way. The project idea for the Ringeriksbahn is therefore the transport requirement related to the shortening of long journeys on Bergensbanen, from the West and Hallingdal, and a more direct rail link between Oslo and Ringerijke. So what's the situation today? Long passenger transport between Bergen and the East is dominated by air travel, 56 pst. But personal travel on Bergensbanen also represents a relatively large proportion, 17 pst. Passenger car and bus journeys represent 22 pst, respectively. and 5 pst. Express bus services are more limited and serve most relationships without train or air services. Trains and buses are used primarily by leisure travellers who pay attention and air transport is dominated by service requirements where travel time is high. Today's track, Bergensbanen, is the country's most busy distance and also an important tourist trail. The Bergensbanen is linked to Flåmsbanen, which is ranked among the most visited tourist attractions in the country. In 2008, there were 700,000 long-distance journeys with Bergensbanen. With a new Ringerix Railway, it is estimated that the number of long-distance travellers will increase to 1,033 000 per year. Between Oslo and Hønefoss, the train is not a real transport option today, as both by bus and car are significantly faster than by train. In relations between Oslo and Hallingdal stations, the train competes quite well with the car and bus in terms of travel time, so here, of course, a curtailment of travel time of one hour will result in a much larger percentage reduction in travel time. In order for long-distance traffic on Bergensbanen to have a safe future, it is appropriate to reduce the travel time of Oslo–Bergen by 1-2 hours compared to today, i.e. to less than 4 1⁄2 hours – in the longer term, a high-speed service on the route that provides a travel time of less than 2 1⁄2 hours. This will help to maintain the travel time gap in relation to car and bus and provide the basis for continuing to operate a significant en route market. However, the travel time difference compared to aircraft will remain high, but already by shortening to 4 1⁄2 hours significantly transferred traffic. A high-speed offer — in the longer term — of 2 1⁄2 hours, we know from international experience that will take 80 pst. by air traffic. In order to reduce travel times on Bergensbanen, the development of the Ringeriksbanen is a key factor. This applies both to long-distance travellers and to travellers between the Ring Kingdom and the Oslo area. Realising the Ringerix Railway provides a better basis for long-distance traffic on a commercial basis, and it contributes positively to the competitive relationship between air traffic and the use of a car, in the favour of the train. The en route and tourist markets will also have a significant boost. Interregionally – as it is called – the development of the Ringerix Railway will result in positive ring-effects for the Great Oslo region and great opportunities for Hønefoss and Ringerike by providing the region with a direct and fast track connection to Oslo. We are talking about new rail links in Norway being built with a speed dimension of at least 250 km/h, and with significantly shorter travel times – as I mentioned – down to 27 minutes. The Ringerijk-Oslo transport corridor is within what is today defined as the Western region, a regional cooperative constellation between the 13 municipalities west of Oslo and the districts of Akershus and Buskerud. Within these 13 municipalities there are 375 000 people. They have a vital centre for their surrounding countries and need to be strengthened as relief centres, thus contributing to a completely necessary regional enlargement for Oslo and thus becoming an important intercity link. A survey has been carried out on the traffic calculations for the Ringeriksbahn to identify the distribution of means of travel in the Ringerijk-Oslo transport corridor. Today's train share is as low as 15 000 per year, which in this context is roughly equal to zero. This is because, as mentioned earlier, the train between Oslo and Ringerijk is not a real passenger transport option, since travel by bus and car is significantly faster than the train, which runs via Hokksund and Drammen. With the Ringerix track in place, a conservative forecast for local travel will increase to 650 000 journeys per year. In total, long-distance and regional travel will increase by more than 900000 passengers per year, a total of 1 700 000 travellers per year, or the same as the Westfold Railway, which is currently Norway's most busy regional route. Finally, let me include something from the Railway Agency’s strategy document, which they called ‘More on rails towards 2040’. It says: ‘The Mountain Railway should be further developed as a significant freight line between Oslo and Hordaland/Bergen’.» Freight transport between Oslo and Bergen is dominated by goods, but freight transport on Bergensbanen is still a dominant mode of transport, with 60 pst. of volume transported. This increased considerably towards 2006. It goes on to say: ‘There is reason to expect continued strong growth in freight transport along the heavy inland transport corridors in Norway. In order to meet the likely growth in demand and to contribute to the relief of the road network, rail freight capacity needs to be significantly increased.» The goal of the development of the Bergensbanen is to enable the track to phase out a triple of today's freight volume between Oslo and Bergen. The construction of the Ringeriksbahn will also benefit freight transport, although not a new track will be as crucial as the development of passenger traffic. Against this background, it is natural to ask whether the Council of State will correct what I would call the miser that the KVU was lying down, and ensure that the treatment of the Ringerix Railway is not delayed as a result of this, and provide us with an assurance that the project will be prioritised in the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2524	In 2005, the red-green government took over a very weak railway. There had been a low level of railway investment in Norway for several years. In addition, rail has been through a failure to reorganise between 2001 and 2005, leading to a lack of very central rail competence. There's been a lot of positive on the railway in the last few years. The appropriations have doubled, the investments have tripled. The appropriations for operations and maintenance have been increased by 40 pst. The government has opened, or has to build or start up, 100 km by double-track railway. That means that the number of kilometers of double tracks will have increased by over 40 pst. at the end of 2013 compared to when the red-green government took over. But there is no doubt that despite significant improvements, we are facing major challenges. Let me first let me start by giving the representative Halleraker some credit. It's not every day it's going to happen. It's not going to happen often, but this time I think that's why, because politics is about priorities, including in the field of transport. It is not possible to solve all transport challenges in a transport plan. To spring, when Stortingen is about to deal with a new transport plan, there will be tough priorities between many projects, all of which are very long-awaited. Many will be disappointed. That's it. The representative Halleraker is the first opposition politician I've seen for a long time, who on behalf of the Right now makes a tough priority. It would have been pleasant to be able to give priority to the Ringerix track while he says that he is too fully expanding the intercity. But, as I see from the newspapers, the representative Halleraker clearly says that he prioritises the Ringeriksbahn instead of full intercity expansion. These are priorities that the opposition often entrusts to the government. I believe that politicians who dare to give priority are far more credible than the counterpart. Let me also say a little bit about the background of the Ringerix Railway in the last 20 years. I'm not going back as far as the representative Halleraker did, but at least some of the last few years. The starting point for planning the Ringeriksbanen project is, of course, the Stortingen decision in 1992 in connection with the treatment of the Oslo-Bergen route. That's what it says. ‘The government is asking the government to support the work of curtailing the Bergensbanen [[Honefoss-Oslo]] With this in mind, the Ministry of Transport commissioned the NSB to investigate possible trasé corridors for the Ringerix Railway, with the corresponding impact assessment under the Planning and Building Act. The Ministry submitted the case to Stortinget, as in the case of St.prp. No 64 in 1996 adopted the following: ‘The further planning of the Ringeriksbanen will be based on option 2 with demarcation from the Dramensbanen in Sandvika and with a trasé route further towards Hönefoss over Kroksund in Hole Municipality, and option 2/6> with demarcation from the Dramensbanen with a trasé route further towards Hönefoss via Åsa, as explained in the Proposition.’ For the treatment of St.prp. No 66 in 2002 on the choice of the Trasé Corridor for the Ringerix Railway, Stortinget adopted the following: ‘The size agrees that the further planning of Bergensbanen’s abbreviation – Ringeriksbanen – is based on the corridor of Åsa.’ It may be worth noting that the Ministry of Transport of the Proposition stated that the NHO considered that the decision-making basis provided the basis for making a choice between the two trasé corridors investigated, and that, instead of Kroksund, which was the railway station's alternative, one chose to land down on the idea that the planning of the Ringeriksbahn should take place on the basis of the corridor over Åsa. Furthermore, Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm wrote in St.prp. No 66 for 2001-2002: ‘However, on the basis of the available investigation material, the Ministry of Transport does not consider it socially appropriate to implement the project as it now exists. A number of other railway projects will need to be prioritised before the construction of the Ringerix Railway is appropriate. In this context, reference is made to the priorities undertaken in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan 2002–2011. The Ministry of Transport will assess whether there may be other relevant infrastructure projects along Bergensbanen with greater relative benefits for rail traffic in relation to investment costs, increased capacity, reduced travel time and, at the same time, less negative impacts on national, regional and local environmental, agricultural and cultural memory interests. Such an assessment will be part of the work of the national transport plan 2006–15.» So in this big message, the Bondevik II government did not find any room for prioritising the Ringerix Railway. That decision was overestimated by the red-green majority in Stortinget, which increased road and rail investment, thereby prioritising money to the Ringeriksbahn towards the end of the period. In the context of the budgetary position S. No. 13 for 2007-2008, the members of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Central Party stated that one in St.prp. No 66 for 2001–2002 and Innst. S. No 67 for 2002–2003 had decided to continue with the Åsa option. The majority wanted to raise the matter again in connection with the implementation of a KS1 of this project on the basis of the Åsa option, because it could inhibit the development of the city of Henefoss. The majority felt that it was important to clarify this in order to continue the priorities of the abbreviation Bergensbanen in the next NTP, and the majority also asked for the Kroksund option to be reviewed. It was a little bit about the history of the Ringerix Railway. It's been a long history, and it's been a difficult story. I think that in terms of settings and propositions, there has been a difficult case for all the parties in this room. So to the thing that's been most focused on the last few years, that's working with a KVU on the Ringerix track. Earlier in the fall, the Ministry of Transport chose to stop the entire KVU work. The quality of the KVU was simply not satisfied on the basis of KS1. The main reason for this is that current decisions and developments from the Storting really have limited possibilities for an open and free approach to elucidate alternative conceptual choices in line with what is to be done in a KVU/KS1 process. In retrospect, I see that the department could have stopped the KVU process at an earlier stage due to the fact that the government's guidelines on external quality assurance at an early stage were not consistent with the relatively detailed decisions that had been made in the past when it came to the trasé elections on the Ringeriksbahn. However, it will have no significance for further progress and work on the project. The Ringerix Railway is a very large project, larger than any other projects we have built for now and, at cost, perhaps in the order of magnitude, something like the Folloban. It requires both a good planning process and probably requires exceptional implementation solutions. The track is already a priority in the current National Transport Plan for 2010–2019. It is set by an amount of approx. 600 million. kr at the very end of the period, while noting that double tracks and modern speed standards should be considered on the track. It's been 20 years since the first decision of the Storting, and it's been 10 years since the Storting's choice of trajectory was actually made. During that period, the assumption of what would be an appropriate railway solution has also changed. It is no longer a single track at a design speed of 160 km/h, which appears to be the most forward-looking solution for the Ringerix track. In a new planning process, a double-track solution with a design speed standard up to 250 km/h must also be considered. With new assumptions, it is likely that the current draft trajectory on the basis of which the Storting decision is based could not be taken into account. In 2013, this government will launch the largest investment project carried out on Bergensbanen in modern times – after Finsetunellen was built in the 1990s. It will mean a new double track from Arna to Bergen station. That project will be completed in 2018, and the cost framework for the project is above 3 billion. kr. Once the project is completed, the frequency of travel can also be doubled on that route. In addition, renewal measures have been implemented which significantly improve punctuality in 2012 compared to the previous ones. Of course, it would have been very good to be on the Spokesman's Chair and be the Minister of Transport who, after 20 years of debate, said that we should be able to realize the Ringerix Railway. The project would have been a huge lift for Bergensbanen. However, the overall expectations of what will be carried out on the railways over the next 10 years are far beyond what is realistically feasible. There's going to be very tough priorities -- maybe tougher than ever. It's going to apply to all the games in this room. I therefore believe that several politicians should do as Mr Halleraker did, and also on the outside be willing to give priority to good projects. What ultimately becomes the government’s priorities in this context will be restored by the government in the submission of the National Transport Plan to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2577	I guess you should be allowed to say thank you for boasting, even from a pulpit. At least it was nice. I think it is also right in politics to be honest and honest with what you believe in. I believe in Ringeriksbanen as a fourth leg in an intercity bet for Stor-Oslo. I am absolutely convinced that the potential of developing the Ring Kingdom as a neighbourhood for the Great Oslo will bring significant benefits to this city and the whole of the East. That's the big and exciting dimension of the Ringerix track. When it comes to rail bets, I think we have to divide roughly equally between ourselves how we've looked at the railways up through. I fully agree with the Council of State that for many years there was too little focus on rail. However, the Right has now voted in favour of every proposal that has come from this government, and we have seen a turn in the political landscape towards also investing more on rail as the great passenger transporter in the transport network in our country. We've got a lot of impulses from elsewhere in the world, and I think it's a significant majority. It's nice, because it's sustainable if we also have to change the government situation. I record that the Council of State does not respond specifically to my question as to whether she wants the project included in her proposal for the NTP. But I understand that she has a sense of the project, so I'll be careful with it in this round, and maybe she'll stretch further after hearing the other speakers. But I would like to be allowed to challenge her in one more area. I believe that both this project and other major intercity projects must take place through their own project organisations, their own project companies, and a project funding model that makes it independent of the annual budgets that we are dealing with here – as we financed the Gardermo development. We want to learn from how we may have partly failed on large railway projects earlier, with reference to the double-track from Asker and in, where the Railway Agency itself says that they would have liked to have been organised differently and could have saved 1.5-2 billion. kr on it. I think maybe it's a question it could be exciting to get answers from a new government council, because it's going to be important in the NTP that we're going to adopt before the Storting splits into the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2590	First, let me make it clear that in the NTP presented in the spring, the Ministry of Transport will come back to the Stortinget with a more detailed priority of the railway operation in the coming years, and in that assessment, the Ringerix Railway will also have its place. It must then be assessed, weighed and prioritised against the other projects. It will also give the Storting the opportunity to provide guidance for further work on the choice of concepts and further prioritisation of such a type of project. There is clearly a great need for the railways in the years to come. The rail needs depend more on the state budget than what you might see at Avinor, at airports or by road. I think we should admit that. That is why it is tempting to say that there is a need to finance projects here. When I got into the government, I also thought that I would go through a bit of what had been said about alternative funding and project financing. I see that there may be some gains to be gained by railway development in terms of project financing, but not because there is no extra money anywhere. It does not do it for this government, it does not do it for the Right, it does not do it for any of us who are committed to complying with an action rule, and have a responsible budgetary policy. However, there may be some gains that you can look at in terms of the fact that, in relation to other modes of transport, the railway is more dependent on being linked to the development in order to benefit fully from the development. I think the West Corridor from Lysaker to Asker is an example of that, because when you've spent ten years building – from 2001 to 2010 – it's clear that it's only when you're done in 2010–2011 that you get the full benefit of that distance. This is probably more for rail than for other modes of transport, and therefore at least the question of project financing or project organisation is of interest to be considered. But whoever thinks that organizing and financing projects in any way other than by budget, that it would mean letting go of tough priorities in the national transport plan, is wrong. Anyone who is concerned with a responsible budgetary policy must in fact be aware that expectations are far beyond what is realistic and feasible for any government, and that there are tough priorities, perhaps tougher than ever. I will not prejudge those priorities from this speaker, but I can say that not implementing the KS1 does not mean that the Ringerix Railway is not being assessed in the NTP. It is assessed in the same way as all other projects, but the overall priority will be tough and difficult because expectations far exceed what is realistic and economically feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2601	The Ringerix Railway is an Austrian project, and it's a shrubbery project. When we come from completely different parts of the country, we get involved in this, of course, because we want good transport solutions in Austland, but I have to admit that interest also comes from my own Western interests. The Bergensbahnen is the most busy distance for goods and people in the country, and it is a significant tourist train. He is associated with the Flåmsbanen, which is one of the most visited tourist attractions in the country. Realising the Ringerik Railway will reduce the journey time between Oslo and Bergen by about an hour, and together with double tracks Bergen-Arna, which will start next year, and a further upgrading of the Vossaban, will be the most important contribution to reducing the travel time between Oslo and Bergen down to four hours. The Transport Economics Institute has calculated that a modernised Bergensbane, with the development of the Ringeriksbane, can provide a traffic base of 900000 people per year. Together with the potential for increased freight traffic, the new Bergensbanen will constitute a significant and necessary transport year between the two largest cities in the country. I think that when it comes to the Ringerix Railway, the Council of State has done well in its contribution to the historical situation, the current planning status and the way forward in the NTP work. There has been a lot of focus on building the Ringerix track 20 years ago in this hall. I will be very careful to say that today we must be happy that this decision was not followed up as planned. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the department’s emphasis on the concept selection process now opens up so that the Ringerix track can be planned and built with double tracks, at high speed – 250 km/h – and with modern signalling systems. If one were to follow the old plans, yes, I don't think we would get a Ringerix track with that standard and with the attractiveness that we all want. Single-track, slow speed, and old-fashioned signalling systems would not be forward-looking. It's a broad deal to realize the intercity triangle. There are large and growing crowds that live along these lines, and we'll all be able to get a radically improved train system there. The Henfoss region and the Ring Kingdom do not have that much people – not today – but it must be a fantastic building area to take on further growth and popular awakening in the central Austland. As far as I can evaluate it, it's fine in the Ring Kingdom, and with fast, double-track train connections towards Oslo, it must be quite easy to bust here. Hordaland Arbeidarparti, where I am a member myself, recently had the Bergensbanen and Ringeriksbanen as a case at his representative meeting. Here it was clear that further planning must lead to the start of construction at the latest in 2018–2019. Then, of course, it gets to show the NTP process if one reaches. My own county party also gave full support to the NTP draft that Bergensbanen will be able to offer a strongly improved offer by building the Ringerix track and upgrading or rebuilding it on the Bergen–Voss section, and that between Hönefoss and Voss, necessary adaptation or remedial measures are taken to ensure a good overall concept. I've heard that if you take the bay and both ends, you're going to do the whole thing. Here I think it's more about me now concentrating on both ends, i.e. the Voss–Bergen and Hönefoss–Oslo sections. Get us on the right track here, and then mostly on double tracks and at high speed, yes, I believe that the bay itself – stretched between Voss and Hönefoss – will also function as a good link between two of our parts of the country, which are very dependent on each other when it comes to the exchange of both people and goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2627	It is tempting to start by saying that it is important to plan, but it is equally important to remember where you have put the plan. The interpellation of the Ringerix track is necessary. The government has financed the railway development needs in general. The government has prioritised the Bergensbanen, especially the major project for reducing travel time that the Ringeriksbanen involves. In its seven years of power, the government has developed ‘investigation and deferral’ as a strategy to drop decision-making and to save money. The government has actually become quite good at it, but the worse progress and start-up. The Ringeriksbahnen is a new railway line directly between Sandvika and Hønefoss which will shorten Bergensbanen by approx. 60 km, and give more than 50 minutes shorter travel time between Oslo and Bergen. It will also bring the journey time between Oslo and Henefoss for the fastest train down to less than 30 minutes. At the end of September 2012, the notice came that the Ministry of Transport is dropping the plan for the Ringeriksbanen. The railway company's investigation was allegedly not good enough. So you found the plan again – after you had forgotten it for a while – and found it useless. Even in the Norwegian transport policy context, characterized by large projects that take a long time, the Ringeriksbanen is quite special. It was first discussed in 1858. In the 1950s, the director Fritz C. Rieber in Bergen presented the plan for the abbreviation of the Bergensbanen. It stopped not least the Working Party. In 1975, the NSB project re-established. In 1991, the NSB adjusted the plan to 200 km – as far as I have found out. The Ringeriks track, as the interpellant referred to, was part of the Stortingen tribal road pass in 1992 – great joy then, great disappointment in 2012, ten years later. The progress party will build the Ringeriksbanen. The project is an important part of the modernisation of the rail network in Norway and not least the modernisation of the railway between Bergen and Oslo. The Bergensbanen is important. Modernisation will further increase the importance of the road in freight transport – moving goods from road to road. The Ringeriksbanen will also strengthen Bergensbanen in the competition with aircraft and bus on passenger transport between Bergen and Oslo and strengthen the public transport between the Hönefoss region and Oslo. But the government won't build for now. The suspension, withdrawal and refusal of decision continue. I recall that the oil fund – with regard to the Council’s considerations on what money is available or not – on 31 October 2012 amounted to 3 723 billion. kr – not millions, but billions. The progress party will build the Ringeriksbanen. You can see this project as an extra part of the intercity triangle, but for the Progress Party, modernisation of the Bergensbanen is important enough without such a coupling. In our alternative proposal for the current NTP, we have a comprehensive railway investment framework. We have financial coverage to also start building the Ringerix Railway. Among several main actions The Progress Party makes it possible to speed up the modernisation of the railways in Norway, the two most important organisations in state railway undertakings and financial instruments – infrastructure funds and state loans – are enabling such an undertaking to build a lot and build quickly. These are well-known proposals from the Progress Party, which we have promoted a number of times even outside the NTP roll-out itself. Parties that say they want to build, but that have no funding tools and organizational tools other than those of today's government, simply don't have credibility. Then there will be no construction of the Ringerik Railway, but still waiting for good intentions and good publicity to lead to modern trains with shorter travel time – in 50 years. For the start of the construction of the Ringeriksbanen, the Progress Party has set aside 200 million in the alternative state budget for 2013. kr. We want to start building before the end of this or maybe the next period. And then something happens. Now it's time for something to happen. Then I would like to remind you that the two previous transport ministers have flirted with the idea of project financing. The only thing that has happened since that flirt was shot down by Prime Minister and Finance Minister is his own posts on the state budget. It doesn't make any sense. It is money that is needed, and that money will be granted by the Advance Party for start-up in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2657	Interpellanten, Øyvind Halleraker, has well explained the history of the Ringerix Railway. Today the fastest train takes Oslo–Bergen 6 hours and 26 minutes. From 9 December, travel time will increase to 6 hours and 52 minutes. So in 2012 the journey time is almost an hour longer between Oslo and Bergen than when I was waiting for the train at Ål station to travel to Oslo in the 1970s. It was a big pole when the lightning train came into the station, because that was the lightning train we called it at Ål. It was fast between Oslo and Bergen. Today, I think the term 'light train' is something that old and retired people may still use, of pure nostalgia, but it's very little like lightning when you see the train coming down the valley. The Ringerix Railway, as I said, has a long story. The advantage of such a long story – a long history of plans – is that when nothing happens, one can at least take into account that the world is moving on and evolving. One of the things that has changed most in recent years, and also to a very large extent since 1992, is that population trends in Norway have slowed down. SSB tracks that over the next 20 years there will be another one million Northmen. Then we'll be up to six million people. The SSB also says 900,000 of these people will live in and around the big cities, i.e. that Bergen, as the second largest city in the country, and Oslo, as the largest city in the country, will receive considerable pressure on residential areas. The Ulrik tunnel is now gradually being built. That's good. The route Bergen-Arna is important, but it is quite a long way to Oslo when you have come to Arna. The Ringerix course will shorten the distance between Oslo and Hønefoss by a short hour. For us who sit on the train from Drammen every day, travel time does not increase, but from Spike Town and other sideways also increases travel time now from 9 December. But from Drammen to Oslo it takes about half an hour. It will also take from Hønefoss to Oslo with the Ringeriksbanen. This means that one will be able to facilitate a strong development of both industry and housing in the region of Ringerik, a development of both the Council of State, the government and we as a magnification should welcome, because we know that the pressure is growing at Oslo and Akershus, at the lower part of Buskerud, where you have a good railway today to Drammen and Østfold, Vestfold. It was said about the Westfold Railway that it was very popular among European veterantogenic enthusiasts. Now evolution has turned around. It's a great development going on, with the intercity triangle. Of course, we have to take that priority debate, but the most important thing is to build up out of the big cities, build up out of the capital and get a functioning network that allows you to also get a distance that's close to track. The Bergensbahnen is currently the most trafficked distance for both goods and persons, and it is also a significant tourist track, which was not least the NRK2 programme showing about Bergensbanen. It showed that it was very popular. International travel magazines run Bergensbanen, Flåmsbanen – «Norway in a nutshell» – to be among the most beautiful routes in the world. I believe that the synergy effect of developing transport between the country's two largest cities in an environmentally friendly way, by greatly expanding the residential area of the Oslo region and by upgrading one of the world's most beautiful routes will be enormous. So we know that this will cost a lot of money, but I'm also sure that if there's a will in Stortinget to move on with the Ringerix course, we'll have a lot left for it. We will achieve major impacts, and the traffic figures that have been launched will be based on today's population. If you think that Ringerike, Hole and Jevnaker can organize for 20,000-30,000 inhabitants, the travel figures will become formidable on the Ringerix track. So let's get started, and don't put this project in a drawer again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2670	I thank the interpellant for an important interpellant and an important debate. I also thought it was okay with the history behind the case, which both the Council of State and the interpellant were in on, not least that Halleraker's own government had put the matter in a drawer. It's also important to remember, I thought, even though it's starting to be a while ago, Halleraker, that when the Left had the Council of State, one of them would pay 1.3 billion. kr – that was the proposal for investment in rail in the 2006 budget. The fact that a person now checks and complains that there is too little money for the train should at least not take away a possibility to think of his own history. It might be okay. Then I would also like to remind the Progress Party that the train was previously a socialist, collective project that threatened motorism and that the Progress Party cut off the path until 2008. I am very happy that the Progress Party has now become for trains, but I only remind them of history. Then I wonder if the representative Halleraker should explain what the Right really means about the IC and the Ringeriksbanen and the Bergensbanen. I smell a little owl in the moss here, because I think it's not like one takes the money from the IC. It's pretty likely that one says yes, both of them, I know right, at least in position. I don't think we know what Right means about this before NTP is presented, but then I can guarantee you, President, that an absolutely not satisfied with what is being presented. We know that because we haven't done what Right said. I think Halleraker, that you need to clarify whether there is a process at this point, or whether you actually have the game behind you when you flag that tab so high. I'm very much in agreement with many people that railway is to build the country. Many of the housing problems we have in central areas, whether in Stavanger, Oslo or elsewhere, can be solved because it is easier to build on Hønefoss when you get a much shorter and more environmentally friendly route. But it will also apply to other parts of the country, if a bet on trains. For SV's part, I would say that the problem in Norway today – also with the government's SV – is that we have a railway that is discriminated against, because he does not have a funding that the others have. We shouldn't have built the highway on the central east coast first. We should build the train first, and then we might have dropped expensive motorway investments. At least that's what SV wants in the future. But because one has the funding one has, the asphalt rolls out on motorways, while the railway depends on the annual budgets. It can't be like that anymore. We have to clean this up, and therefore it is pleasing – I think – that all the government parties are involved in this topic. The Labour Party also has a decision from its national meeting that a wish for a public-owned project development company. This is what I hope we'll be able to do, in the process we're in, when it's about the treatment of NTP. Finally, I would like to remind you that the bulk of the population – all the parties except the Advance Party – has been very clear that when a new building is to be built, a building with double tracks should be by default and a speed of 250 km/h or higher. The majority have passed since 2008, and the Ringerix Railway will also have to be of such quality, when we know that it will be part of a forward-looking high-speed network in Norway. We're building it no in Westfold, so we're on the lookout there. Finally, SV has agreed to use 25 billion in its group. kr on trains per year in Norway and 250 br. kr in the NTP period. It's a lot of money, but it's not more than just what we spend on oil and gas investments this year. We're just using 200 billion. kr on it this year. Well, that's not a lot of 250 billion. 10 years on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2687	The President would like to recall, in all his kindness, that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2690	Langeland will try and follow it in his further work, but he has had problems with it before. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2696	It records the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2699	I would also like to thank the representative Halleraker for the interpellation and in particular for his commendable priority. Today's Bergensbanen enters the Drammen, Hønefoss, Hallingdal, Finse, Voss and Bergen. This is usually an important matter for the inhabitants of Buskerud, and it is an important matter for the West. It became invia as a transport revolution 103 years ago, and after 15 years of construction, King Haakon VII opened the runway on November 27, 1909, at Voss station. According to the King, the construction work was the great work of our time and cost more than one government budget. There were lines over there. Now the Bergensbanen is getting slower and slower, despite all the promises. My central party colleague from Hordaland, Kjersti Toppe, said this in the Official Journal of Bergen in a headline on 19 November this year: ‘There is reason to criticize us all.’ That’s something I can agree to. We have to recognise the responsibility, and we have to go together, and the discussion here so far, citizen, because it's now a different tone all over the place. We're facing an upgrade that allows you to rely on someone to arrive in time, with people and goods, and we're facing an abbreviation. The benefits are obvious. There is a need for a competitive alternative to aeroplanes. There is a need for a path that allows you to work on the journeys. There must be positive experiences for those who want to see Norway, and there is an urgent need to strengthen the competitiveness of rail freight at the expense of trailers over the gauges. State Council Arnstad presented the matter in a very robust manner, which provides trust, and expressed very clearly the need to prioritize, and that an involvement is needed for the track, if the path is to be prioritised. What is needed is that at each year's budget, funds are allocated for upgrading. As perhaps one of the few people who have been sitting in the cab from Hønefoss to Bergen, I have discovered the need for upgrading. At the time, large parts of the track were experienced as running in a green tunnel. There had not even been money to keep the vegetation down. That's what the containers stood for. Fortunately, the herons and bushes are now cut down, and that's a little bit better term, but safety is far from good. There is a need for money to strengthen stations, protect against snowstorms, crossing tracks and level crossings, and most people do see the plane crash just before the Geilo, which has been like this for a long time, as an example of the lack of priority of the track. The question of the abbreviation of Bergensbanen is – as others have said – not new. Already in 1890 it was proposed, from the outside of Busker, a direct route from Hønefoss to Oslo. Because of the technology of that time, it wasn't chosen in 1898, and we got the Roa-trase. I want to be clear that what the Buskerud Center Party is working for is that we have to complete the planning of the abbreviation of the Bergensbanen, what is called the Ringeriksbanen, in the first NTP period, i.e. in the period 2014-2018. Then we have to do the construction in the following period, in 2019-2023. That's our clear goal, and with the upswing that's here now, and with the long story that the case has, I see realistic possibilities for it. The funding of the track must be in the same way as the intercity funding, so that we get the whole of the railway development on these key routes. Finally, I hope that we can now go together, so that what is now said here can become reality, and that we can get involved in the whole construction, which is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2727	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for taking up in a good and thorough way an important debate on the development of the Ringerik Railway. After all, it is a great paradox that a transport project that actually makes sense to bring together the West and the Austland has not been realised. It's because the development of the Ringerik Railway could mean a lot for Bergensbanen, but not least it could mean a lot for the Great Oslo region, with the pressure we know we have around our capital and the regions around. There is no capital in Europe that grows as strongly and as much, relatively, as Oslo does. Sex problems in Oslo are among the most demanding across Europe. Oslo is number three in the list of cities with major queue problems – regardless of size – in Europe. It shows that we have to be able to solve it, the railway will be an important part of the solution. Similarly, the development of the Ringeriksbanen will mean a lot for the Bergensbanen. Reduced travel time could make it even more attractive. It was not without reason that when the high-speed equipment came in winter, it was a priority they were very clear, and it was the Bergensbanen, and it was just the construction of the Ringeriksbanen. That's why I thought it was problematic, when we've known both the commitment and the desire to get this case on the agenda, that we then know that we've had a KVU work, a concept evaluation, which has not maintained the quality that such an expansion needs, and the department has known about this and knows about it and has done nothing about it. So one has spent six to seven years, and one has known that this work is not good enough. I want to say that it is not sustainable that the department has not grasped that we have had a KVU that has not maintained the necessary standard. I also noticed that the Council of State said that she had seen it as an advantage; that was well the way she put it, and to say it this way: it was not to use strong words. That being said, I fully agree with what the Council of State said that we must now get a deal with the paintings and the tools that are necessary, where she pointed both to double tracks and to a modern haste. The representative, Lundtigen, who was before me, said that political guilt sharing is a proper word around this. I agree with that. What we must show is political will. I'm 40 tomorrow, so I'm trying to look a little longer than I normally care. What I see is that in the 1970s and 1980s there was little investment in Norwegian railways. Then came investment at the beginning of the 1990s, which was relatively modest but stable, up to the financial crisis in 2008-2009, and after that we have had an increase. That was because the 1970s and 1980s were the car's decades. Just what we need to see now is that we need to have a railway, we need more investment. What makes me positive is that, not least around our big cities, the railway will be a key to making the transport work in a good way. That's why I think there's a lot that's going to need to be positive in terms of rail investment. So I think the Ringerix Railway is one of the projects where we now have to get clear figures in place for what we need to get to a modern railway solution here. Double tracks and modern haste, as state councillor Arnstad said, I totally agree. And then, I think, we have to take the priority around this in connection with NTP. Most of the parties here have also committed themselves to intercity by means of an climate settlement, which must also be the basis for the adoption of the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2748	If the President does not see the representative tomorrow, she will be congratulated in advance!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2751	Much has already been said in this interpellation debate. I don't want to use my post on selective history, but to look forward to it. But I have to say that I was a little surprised by the exact representative Hallgeir Langeland, who wants to get into the story – an SV that was tricked by the Workers' Party in its time: there was a tunnel on Opseth, but not the Ringeriksbahn on SV. I would also like to thank the interpellant, Halleraker, for focusing on the Ringerix track, but as has been said by several, this would have been built 20 years ago. In my opinion, the Ringeriksbanen is in many ways a Kindereg: as many have said, it will shorten the travel time on the Bergensbanen by one hour, as the representative Øyvind Halleraker writes in his interview. It will develop the last suburb to the capital that has had little or no migration in recent years. And it will relieve the move to Asker and Bærum, and not least the price of housing. The paradox is that the Ringeriks region with the city of Hønefoss is waiting for new inhabitants, while Oslo, Asker and Bærum discuss the land border, the construction of cultivated land and fortifications, as well as ever higher housing prices, which make it difficult for young people to establish themselves in the region as, among others, I live in the Ringerix region is actually the only region around Oslo that doesn't have significant growth in the population. This also means that the region can attract half the housing prices of what is the case in Oslo, Asker and Bærum. The main reason for this situation is what is perceived as — and is — poor transport solutions, which make travel to the capital unnecessary. The main road between the East and the West is through Ringerijk and remains far from the 2012 standard, and the railway to Oslo goes via Hokksund and Drammen. I have attended many open political meetings at Ringerijk on the rail contribution to climate, housing and transport policy. The emphasis is always placed on how the Ringeriksbane can contribute positively to the relief of Oslo and the western region and to the development of the Ringeriksregion. As I said, 20 years have passed since the decision to build the Ringeriksbahn was taken, but so far not one metre with a new railway has been built. Some of the background, as many have also said, is, of course, a lack of priority in NTP. Left wants the Ringeriksbanen to be established as a fourth arm on the intercity project, with alternative funding and organisation. This has been proposed by the Left in Stortinget, unfortunately without being able to connect so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2766	It's from a lot of speakers and from the interpellant, Halleraker's representative, gave a lot of good arguments for the construction of the Ringerix Railway. There are well-known arguments that this room has been dealing with for many years. This is, as is said from several teams here, one of the things that there has been a great deal of national consensus that it was necessary to realize. The arguments from the Buskerud side, to put it that way, about the meaning of the Ringeriksbanen to the Buskerud region, i.e. The Ringerix region is also well documented. I agree with everything that has been said, and I say that it will be absolutely necessary, as the representative of Greece was in the region of Ringerik as part of the Oslo region. It will somehow force itself because of population developments, but also because of economic developments. It will be good for Ringerijk, it will be good for the Ringerik region, and it will be good for Oslo to do so. Only on that basis is there any reason to put a line under the meaning of the Ringerix track. That's an independent and a good reason for everything that's been said. But that's hardly just the thing. As several of my colleagues here have already mentioned, this is about a larger perspective. It's about Bergensbanen. And Bergensbanen is about the rail between east and west in Norway, between the two largest cities, between the economic power centers in Norway: the West and the East. What's the perspective of it, is that the Stortinge when we talk about railway operations, it's hard to see around this: are we going to have a Future Norway without an efficient railway in the most central parts of our country? It's really the case, as I see it. Because just as we can talk about Ringerike's shadow, we're talking about Bergen's needs all the way up to Voss. These things are absolutely necessary to see in the broad context. So now we're in the situation that even though we decide in this room that this is to be done, it's not done. Then, as has been said, you can probably share responsibility among many. That's the way it's going to be. But now we have also adopted this intercity cooperation. What is said at least – a little cautious, correct, but nevertheless that’s to be heard – from some of the representatives also in this interpellation debate, is that we should put the Ringerix track into it. There's a way to think about it, and it'll be necessary, I think, that the government, when it comes to the transport plan, has a sense of whether it's realistic. I'll put question marks on it. I really don't think it's going to work, because you've committed yourself to the implementation of intercity as it is, without the Ringerix course. That is what the political decision is. And then we have to ask ourselves the question, how are we going to be able to realize the Ringeriksbanen/Bergensbanen? That's what's nervous about this question, that's what's going on, and then I would say, of course, it's going to be necessary to respect what the council says. There's no one here who doesn't have to do it, except the Progress Party. We must respect the financial framework. But I still want to say, when the Council of State sits and follows closely, that if we are not to tell each other that the Ringerix course will not be realised in the next 25 years – if we are not to say so – we must have an opinion on how to get started. And then I believe that what lies at the heart of this interpellation, and this debate, is that the government must get a very clear and clear message through this discussion: in the case of NTP, they must have a concrete opinion on how to realize the Ringerix Railway, how to realize the Bergensbanen, and how to finance it. If we don't have to man up to have an opinion that it won't be the next few years. That's what's the situation around this path.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2781	First of all, I can start wondering if the representative of Kolberg will join the debate, because at least I registered that the representative of Langeland would like to spend 25 billion. kr more a year on expanding the railway. So it's not just the Progress Party that believes that it's fully possible to expand both the road and the railway with much more money every year. I very much agree that the Ringerix Railway is important. The construction of the Ringerix Railway is about regional magnification, it's about Ringerijke/Hønefoss being part of Stor-Oslo with the positive things it brings, and not least the curtailment of travel time. It's very important. I have not been in the locomotive on Bergensbanen, which the representative Lundtigen has, but I have been in the back of the sleeping locomotive on a train from Bergen to Oslo. It's an experience I'd rather not have left, because there wasn't much sleep. It definitely shows that Lundtegen and I agree that something needs to be done about the path body. He may have looked at it a little bit more, while I've known a little bit more about how bad it is to lie behind in a sleeping accommodation. And to the representative of Rommetveit, who thought it might be nice in Ringerijk: it's very nice in Ringerijk, but mostly I've driven a car there, because it's so much faster than taking the train. That's why we agree that the interpellation that Halleraker's representative has addressed today is important, and it's important to do something about the Ringerix Railway. But I get worried when I hear that the representative Halleraker must have said something, among other things. The hallowed beer that he will take part of this by reducing the expansion of the intercity triangle, of which there is a broad political consensus. So it might be exciting to hear if the Right now goes away from the promises of a quick expansion of the intercity triangle as well. It must be possible to have more thoughts in your head at once, and when the Council of State is so concerned about the financial framework at its disposal that you have to be careful, it is a little special. So we have a government that has never had more money, and is very happy to boast that we've never spent more money than this government does. But the room of action has never been better than it is now, with opportunities to make grip. So we have $4,000 billion. kr on book soon – 4000 billion oil money in shares in foreign trades or other foreign shares, so we might have more sensible things to spend on parts of the profits that we charge each year. We believe at least that it makes sense to use some of this surplus on oil revenues and actually move it from oil to rails and roads, and to other important things in society. Infrastructure is profitable. It's very, very little else that's more profitable than investing in infrastructure. And when the Progress Party made its alternative proposal for the National Transport Plan, we were concerned that we should build a road, but – as the representative Langeland should also have got along – we also did a lot when it came to rail, precisely because the wealth we now have has given us new opportunities with other funding tools, other organisational tools, which enable us to expand both road and rail. We have to have both thoughts in our heads at the same time. I thought it was interesting that the representative of Langeland said that it is completely possible to spend more money. He wants to spend 25 billion. kr more in the year on the railway. The question is whether he will get it inside this hall, or whether he will continue to stand on the outside and demonstrate to get some of these 25 billion to build up rail in Norway. But I'm very glad that the interpellant has taken up this interpellance. I believe that it is important to build the Ringeriksbahn, and that also means the Progress Party. That is why we are proposing that money should actually be spent already in 2013, because it is an important railway project and an important social project. It's also about enlargement of the region, and also getting the Ringerix region into it as part of the Great Oslo – and to meet the population growth, we're totally dependent on it. So this is also an important path between Bergen and Oslo. For Bergen's part, it's important to get a solution for Voss, and it's important to get the whole thing into it. That's what this is about. Therefore, I think it is sad that you have just said that what the Railway Agency has done is not good enough: we start again. But now the Minister of Transport has promised that in the NTP you will also have the Ringerix track, so I'm excited to see what comes when the NTP proposal from the government is presented in February next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2802	The Bergensbanen needs upgrading. Abbreviation of Bergensbanen must be a priority project in NTP. This means that the Ringeriksbahn must be realised, and the Vosebanen – or intercity Bergen–Voss, as we usually call it – must be modernised in the same effort, and implemented during the next NTP period. This will be Hadeland Center Party's claim to NTP. After it became known that travel time between Oslo and Bergen would increase by half an hour, the reactions have been strong. The reality is that 30 years ago we ran Bergen–Oslo half an hour faster than today. 103 years ago, Bergensbanen was a railway revolution. Now it's getting slower and slower. The busway, which is a very important commuter route, hassle with poor trainsets, and sometimes a few associations to black-and-white movies from the 1960s when we sit in them and know that we can't talk on the phone – we have to do that before we leave home. I feel that there is now a great willingness to fight for a strengthening and shortening of the Bergensbanen in the West. The operation in Norway cannot only be performed on intercity sections of the Oslo area, but also the long-distance train must be part of the package. A growing number stand for geographically fair distribution of railway resources. Forum Nye Bergensbanen has proposed that the intercity beting must come after the Bergensbanen has been improved and the Ringeriksbanen is built. The Right Øyvind Halleraker stated to the Official Journal of Bergen on 19 November that the Right goes in to halve the intercity bet in favour of the Ringeriksbahn. The positive thing about this is that everyone's with and talk to the Bergensbanen. This will in any case strengthen the project towards NTP. The Ringerix course will shorten the journey time between Bergen and Oslo by one hour. Shortening of the Bergensbanen is also important when it comes to freight and travel, but shortening the Bergensbanen is also important because it can then become a more real alternative to passenger flights. One hour's abbreviation will mean that the travel time will come down to 4 hours. If one at the same time introduces an equal stop on the journey as in the lightning planning, the journey time could come down to 3 hours and 40 minutes. Then I think no one can say that the Bergensbanen won't be a real alternative to flights. I think it weakens the arguments for a lot of lightning between the same places. Bergen–Oslo is – at least it has been – the most busy flight route in Europe. The potential for moving work travel from plane to path is therefore great. A train journey of 3 hours and 40 minutes will also mean effective working hours, and will usually be an attractive option for the many commuters between the largest cities. I'm talking a little bit of experience. I think I need a much better heart than Brother Hoksrud. So I've slept two of the last three nets in this week on Bergensbanen, and I slept incredibly well. I take it as a sign that I have great faith that we will be united politically for an abbreviation of the Bergensbanen – we have completed the distribution of blame – that we will have a mandatory decision on both financing and realization, just as intercity betting in the Austland has received it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2817	Thank you for the debate. I think there were many good and wise posts. First, this gives me the opportunity to comment on a quote from a newspaper that says I'm going in to halve the intercity bet on the East. I never said that. What I've said is that we have to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. In the 10-year perspective to be addressed by the next NTP, we will probably have more than enough to realize what the Railway Agency and the NSB define as the internal intercity triangle. They also say – and that's interesting – that they get an almost full count of the intercity idea by realizing the inner triangle first. That's what the Right has always said. We've said that we want to bet on the intercity triangle and the routes into the big cities first. We also said that when we went in to build high-speed trains in Norway: we first have to build the intercity sections around Oslo. This is a term in the exact same thing. But we've never said – and that's where the misunderstanding lies – that we're not going to do anything else. Ringeriksbanen, Kongsvingerbanen, Meråkerbanen, Tronderbanen – many railway sections in Norway will, of course, have up-to-dateness in the NTP period we enter. We have to build the intercity triangle from the right, let's not say. But we're going to do it in a way that makes it realistic to build at least the inside of the period that we're now going into. We're going to do that. I hear the Council of State is more transparent in terms of organisation than in terms of funding, and that may be all right. I think it's the organization that might be the most important thing in this context, that we get our own company, their own mandate, and with the freedom to also use new forms of loan. Perhaps we can also imagine – as we have talked about when it comes to the roadside – a guarantee scheme, i.e. schemes that were well-known when we built out the OSL, that is Gardermoen. Let me finish, before the Council gets its final comments, once again challenge her that both this project and other major projects that we hope will gather around in the treatment of NTP, need new organisational models and – I want to add – new funding models. We have expectations that the Council of State will join us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2830	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for an interesting debate. I understand the posts that there is a great commitment to the Ringerix course. I understand that. I am also aware that from a railway professional point of view, the Ringerix Railway is a much better project than many other railway projects because it reduces travel time so much. It is an important criterion for a good railway project. Then there has been some argument related to both the Ringerix Railway as such and the railway operation as such. I guess I'm not completely familiar with the sort of dark way of drawing the situation in terms of railway investment. There's a lot to say about the railway, but this government has actually tripled the investments, while we've put a lot of effort into operation and maintenance. There are projects for 20 billion. kr which is now being started around the Oslo area. And it's not small projects, it's pretty big stakes that's going on. We keep progressing on them, fully. Several of the interventions also well illustrate the demanding priorities we face, because priorities need to be made. It's going to come to all of us in a bunch – all the parties in this room are going to have to taste at having to prioritize different projects in different parts of the country. Halleraker mentioned some of them. With regard to the overall expectations of what can be done, it is not possible to meet all of them. There must be some priorities. The debate we have had now has shown and justified in a good way why some want to give priority to the Ringerik Railway. I want to say that the railway is an important solution for urban issues, there is no doubt about it. But this isn't just about Oslo. It's going to be a strong growth also around Stavanger, around Bergen and around Trondheim. In this context, too, rail will play an important role – not to mention that urban problems and urban transport issues will also have to be solved in cities that do not have access to rail. It is also part of the overall priorities of the National Transport Plan, to which we must return. I want to underline one thing. It was not the quality of the KVU that was too poor, but the ability to get a good enough KS1 is limited by the fact that one has taken the trasé choice. Then you can't, professionally speaking, compare lines like you normally do in a KS1 process. So here, there's no different paths to compare. I think Hoksrud must have misunderstood, because the Ringerix Railway will normally be assessed and prioritised against other projects in NTP 2014-2023. Nothing is delaying that aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2845	Case No. 10 has been completed. There will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2854	The size should vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2864	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Svein Harberg on behalf of Right and Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in a three-year vocational training course in the field of career guidance, including an adapted course for those with other vocational training wishing to receive further training in the field of career guidance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2890	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to develop a national framework for continuing training in career guidance, based on a Bachelor’s degree in pedagogy or other education at the same level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2915	It seems that we have to take the voting one more time. The President will point out – while the computer system is being adjusted – that the suspension is based on the ‘not adopted’ proposal. Those who vote against the proposal must therefore press the fore-button.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2934	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Henning Warloe on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 3-6, by Henning Warloe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 7, from Henning Warloe on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose raising the grant rate for full-time full-time students to 70 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2963	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-6, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government, in the context of the 2013 State Budget, to propose the introduction of student support for first year students on bachelor’s programmes in all non-Western countries and the United States.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the recognition procedures for foreign school years are made better and more predictable and that it is adequately ensured that advisers have up-to-date knowledge of exchange opportunities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the support scheme of the State Loan Fund for Education is extended to include Vg1 and Vg3 and that support is given to secondary students wishing to study a semester outside.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose ways of ensuring that the education given to students through student exchanges is accepted in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e2999	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to present a case with the status and results of measures outlined in St.meld. No 14 Internationalisation of education, cf. [[2008-2009]] Inner. [[2008-2009]] S. No 202 Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the ways in which exchanges for students in vocational education and training can be stimulated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e3022	In Case No: 5, 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e3030	During the debate, an Arne Sortevik proposal was put forward on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the projects in e.g. 545 in Fitjar and Stord municipality in Hordaland, as described in Prop. [[2011-2012]] 149 S Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e3065	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, by reference to Article 10 of EU Regulation 1072/2009, ESA, to immediately suspend the cabotage rules in road freight transport in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments before the reintroduction of the cabotage regime.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e3099	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-22.ana.ud1001e3111	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
