ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e26	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e34	On behalf of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Bente Thorsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to extend the use of welfare technology in the health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e39	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e51	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first question, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e58	Discussions with the pensioners’ organisations on the regulation of pensions are soon under way – they may be in progress. With the system we now have for this, the government is de facto with all the power in terms of what you intend to offer the pensioners. It is still the case that current pensioners are not part of the change made in the pension scheme. They experience the very unfair situation of the state confiscating 15 pst. of each pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, with the rather remarkable reason that it is so cheap to live together. Despite the fact that these are vested rights, there has been a long practice in confiscating people's earned pension, on the grounds that they live together. In the new system, this has not improved. Rather, it's gotten worse and got a rather unfortunate distribution profile, in the sense that the less you earn, the more you get pulled, to say it a little brutally. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he will help to end this unreasonable curtailment once and for all. This was one of the most hard work of the Progress Party when we negotiated the State budget with the minority government Bondevik II, and managed to reduce that reduction from 25 p.m. for a few years. to 15 pst. There was important progress for many pensioners in Norway, but we are still not in target. When the Progress Party got there, the three current government parties were for this. They voted in favour of that amendment. Will the Prime Minister complete this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e71	I am concerned with the financial conditions of pensioners and their purchasing power. That's why this government has done at least two things that are important to the pensioners. One is that we've raised the pensions considerably for those who have the lowest pensions. Over many years, there has been a desire that what was once called the minimum pension, which is now called the guarantee pension, the lowest pension in the population, should be raised to twice the basic amount. It was never completed until we got it in place two to three years ago, during this government. This means a permanent higher level for all those with the lowest pensions. On top of that, supplementary pensions come from a higher level than before. It is for the benefit of both married people, cohabitants and lonely people. The second, because we have had a general good development in the Norwegian economy and a good payroll that has also been reflected in retirement services, is that over the past five to six years, we have had the perhaps strongest growth in purchasing power for all groups — including pensioners. I don't have the exact number in my head, but we're talking about between 25 and 30 pst. growth over the past five to six years. In total, there has been a significant increase in the number of pension groups. I understand that of course they would like to see even greater increases, but there has been a significant rise for the pensioners. With regard to the design of the system, we have implemented a comprehensive reform of the pension system. We've made adjustments in the tax for those with the lowest pensions, and I'm not going to make any changes to that system. I expect that the system is fixed through the pension agreement that was carried out in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e84	The Prime Minister responded to everything other than what I asked for. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to answer what I ask him to do, and that is the abbreviation. There are many groups in society that experience purchasing power improvement. But the unfairness of having decided to confiscate 15 pst. Of both spouses' pensions because they live together, you can ask some questions. Because you choose to live together, because you choose to be married, the state believes it has the right to go in and confiscate 15 pst. of both spouses' pensions, with the remarkable reason that living together is so cheap. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to explain why he thinks this is a good principle. If he is serious, that must be the reason why he wants to maintain it. If he thinks it unreasonable, I expect the Prime Minister to work with the Advancement Party to eliminate that unfairness once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e93	What I was referring to was that there was a broad agreement about the pension scheme, which also involves the provisions we have related to how married people get a pension calculated in relation to how lonely they get a pension. It is a settlement that all the parties on the Stortinget have entered into, i.e. all the parties minus the Party of Advances, and all the parties minus the Party of Advances, are a very important compromise on which one is committed. Then I expect that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, with which I hear the Party of Advancement is busy sitting in government with, will make sure that this agreement is followed up. So I think regardless of what kind of government you want after the 2013 elections, the reconciliation will stand by. The crucial thing is that this government has provided for a significant increase in pensions. I still accept that many people think the pensions are too low, but also married and cohabiting people have now increased their purchasing power compared to what they had a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e100	Two follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first by Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e103	The Progress Party has been working for 23 years to remove the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. The Prime Minister showed in his response to the new pension reform, the new pension system, which entered into force on 1 January 2011, which now calculates his pension in social security based on an income pension stock and a guarantee pension stock. In addition, the pension system through which the Prime Minister has suffered in Stortinget has maintained the curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners, but it has to be curtailed in relation to the guarantee pension. This means that those with low income are fully curtailed, while those with high income are not curtailed by civil status. Can the Prime Minister explain to the Progress Party and Norwegian pensioners why it is fair distribution policy to shorten the pension for married and cohabiting persons with low incomes, while it is reasonable not to shorten it for those with high incomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e112	I think we have to look at the whole pension system. The way in which popular protection is designed, in particular the new social security system, there is a significant redistribution in the calculation of the pension, especially for those with the lowest incomes. Those with the lowest income receive a significantly higher level of compensation than those with the highest income; this also applies after shortening in relation to the spouse. You can't take out one element and look at it, you have to look at the totality, and there's the compensation rate, i.e. the pension rate as a percentage of previous income, much higher for income than for higher income. But once again, there's a broad deal behind the design of the pension scheme. The system's stuck. So we've been involved in increasing significantly, for example. by the fact that the guarantee pension now represents twice the basic amount, as promised by many governments, but as implemented by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e121	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e124	It is true that the pension agreement is fixed, but the pension tax is not going to be fixed. In these days, more than 100,000 pensioners have received their tax settlement; many are sitting and working with the tax return. And it's true, as the Prime Minister says, a lot of low-pension people get lower taxes. At the same time, many with ordinary ordinary pensions have experienced a very strong tax tightening. In its alternative budgets, the right has proposed relief for pensioners, and that is what we are prepared to continue to do. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he believes it is reasonable that people with very common pensions have received a strong tax boost from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e134	Firstly, I am pleased that the pension agreement is so clear to the right, so that it is firm, and that the matter is settled. Thus, the real issue of the first questions is solved — the design of a pension for spouses. As far as pensioners are concerned, this government has done two things: first of all, we have created a tax system that makes it much more profitable for pensioners to work alongside the pension. I believe it is a great advantage that the pension is not so curtailed in the tax system, if you have some income next to the pension. That's good, that's part of the line of work that this government stands for. Secondly, the government has facilitated and reduced the total amount of taxes paid by pensioners, with a social profile, and that means that many with low incomes have received both increased pensions and lower taxes. It's a distribution profile we're standing at, which means a total reduction in the pensioner's tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e143	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e146	Last month we celebrated the fact that we became five million inhabitants in Norway. We were able to go from four to five million at about. 30 years. The estimate suggests that with the growth we have seen in recent years, we will reach six million in 16 years. But there are some aspects of the population growth that may be underfocused. The fact that we have built in the last five years every year in excess of 10,000 fewer dwellings in Norway than is needed to keep pace with population growth means that we are heading towards a housing crisis, a lack of housing in Norway. The first signs of this are when housing prices increase particularly in the big cities. This makes it more difficult for young people to enter the housing market. This makes it difficult in some areas to attract labour, because you don't make people live there. It means that this is a growth brake they luxury, and it's a welfare challenge if not the rate of expansion increases. My first question to the Prime Minister is whether the government has seen this development, because it is really not mentioned a single place in the state budget that we are on our way into a housing shortage crisis. There is nothing about the challenges in the urban or growth problems it brings. The government has no strategy. This government has no strategy – unlike the previous government – to tackle the development of major cities in Norway. So the question to the prime minister is, what does the government intend to do to get the housing up? Has the government with open eyes seen that we are on our way into a housing shortage crisis? And has the government chosen not to inform the Storting about that development?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e157	The government has informed the Storting that we are becoming more people in the country. I basically think that's a pleasure. This is due to three factors: the first is that we give birth to more children. Perhaps the best and most beautiful expression that people have faith in the future is that they have high fertility, and Norwegian women are among the women in the Western world who have the most children. Second, it's because we live longer. It's also something fundamentally positive that we live longer. And then we're going to have more. The third is that many people want to move to Norway. Not least, many people come from other EU countries, which means that we have record high levels of immigration from EU countries to Norway. This makes us more people in Norway. This is described in various documents from the government to the Stortinget, and I am absolutely sure the Stortinget is aware that we have a growing population. More people need more homes. It is also explained by the government, and we have taken action to increase housing. We want to discuss with the Stortinget – and discuss in the various parties – what further we can do to promote housing. The working party that the party has had a separate selection that has promoted a wide range of suggestions on how to facilitate increased housing. But what we have already done is for example: to increase the lending framework of the House Bank from 13 billion. kr in 2005 to 20 br. kr in 2011. The housing construction increased by 31 pst in 2011. from 2010. Now it is said that we had a decline in the financial crisis, but it is nevertheless an expression that, after the financial crisis, we have seen a sharp increase in housing construction. In Oslo, housing has tripled from 2010 to 2011, so that overall we have increased housing investment in Norway. I think that in addition to what we can do on funding, regulation and simplification are important for facilitating housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e176	Still, in 2011, we built 10,000 fewer homes than the population growth to date, and the 2012 estimate is also that we're building 10,000 fewer. So even if the Right Town Council does a good job of planning and development in Oslo, that doesn't help. One of the reasons why it does not help is that they are constantly experiencing that the State as a counterparty is slowing development. It takes too long to get through plans, it takes too long to build new ones. The largest example of this is in Sandnes. In Jens Stoltenberg's first period of government, he was in for a pound. a resolution which adopted a large spatial plan for this area, leading to the construction of 40,000 dwellings in the future. Today, the first homes under this plan have not been started, because new objections have been raised based on new laws, regulations and guidelines given by this government. Will the Prime Minister agree to think completely new in terms of planning cooperation – do many of the opposition mechanisms wind up and create a new plan instrument for the development of the major cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e185	This government is for simplification, both for families and for businesses. We have set numerical targets for the companies. The largest simplification measure ever implemented towards Business Norway has been implemented by this government. We are also concerned with simplification in housing construction, and as I said, there is a separate sample in the Workers' Party that has promoted a wide range of measures, such as: is about simpler planning processes. I dare not say yes or no to the proposals that have been made from the Labour Party's selection, nor to those that are being launched by the Right. But I have a basic positive attitude to make things easier and faster to facilitate more housing – and in and on my own for other activities. It's because we see that one of the problems we have is that it takes time to get regulated areas, it takes time to make decisions. Then there are often legitimate reasons, for example: consideration of urban development, food soil, environment and the kind of things. However, the sum is such that in Norway it is difficult to make decisions on housing, road construction or other important investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e192	Follow-up questions are given – first Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e195	I am going a little further on the offer page of the housing construction, because an important reason for both the lack of housing and the price pressure is that there are not enough plots ready, so you can stick the spade in the ground and travel construction. Land and beach communications come from the municipalities, which are central regulators in our system, and they say that they are being delayed and they are getting flushed up housing projects, simply because the 22 public authorities that have the right to object are blocking. Some of these state objections are also poorly coordinated. The government must also take a certain responsibility for that. So my question to the Prime Minister is, can he mention one of these opposition institutes that should have been removed? Similarly: Is there one paragraph he might think of changing to make the counterclaims against housing less?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e202	I am concerned about having an open mind in relation to the fact that we can change paragraphs and change opposition arrangements. But I believe that it is such a serious and important question that I do not deal with it in a spontaneous question hour in Stortinget. But there have been proposals from different teams – most recently from a group in the Workers' Party – that involve simplification. The challenge is that it's easy to be able to simplify the theory. It's sometimes a little bit more difficult in practice. It's for all of the parties, it's for different governments. This government has shown in practice that we have managed to make very large simplifications for businesses. Now let's see if we can do similar things in relation to e.g. housing and road construction. We recently received a report on road construction to try to make it easier, with less extensive planning processes. But the challenge is, for example: consideration of objections in the case of food soils. Then there is a conflict of objectives between what this big business has decided and that we have supported, that is, that we have to take care of food soils, against a desire for housing. Similarly, it is a matter of nature protection or, for example, of environmental protection. reasons for movement. So the sum can be demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e211	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e214	Even if we've crossed five million inhabitants in Norway, we have enough space – we have plenty of space – but it obviously requires that if we're to get housing out of it, it's regulated for residential purposes. There are many obstacles here. KS had an investigation now that showed that in 94 pst. by cases, municipal plans will be met with an entrance notice or an entrance notice. This is also a point that the Labour Party's housing selection has made. They point out that often it's the public that's to blame for taking too long, because one comes with deposits. Then my question is: does the Prime Minister see these problems – that there are too many insiders, especially mercenaries – and does the Prime Minister have any concrete thoughts about doing something about this, so that we get fewer insiders, especially with regard to the state, especially when it comes to mercenaries and more local self-government in regulatory plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e224	The answer is yes, I see the issue. As I say, there have been various suggestions on how to try to make things easier and get more speedy procedures. Now I want to say that it is not so complicated that it is not possible for a municipality to regulate an area for housing construction. Many municipalities succeed and a large number of dwellings are built in Norway. So it's not that it's impossible to regulate an area for housing, but we have examples that it's sometimes complicated, or that the municipalities aren't conscious enough of the need to organize land, land, housing. But, as I've also been faced with before, the challenge is that we sometimes face target conflicts, for example. in relation to facilitating transport solutions and taking environmental protection into account. But what's also often a consideration is food soil. Then I say that we have the challenge in our country that we often adopt a lot of things that are opposed to each other, and then we have to resolve those conflicts in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e233	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e236	Housing prices have quadrupled since 1993 and are now higher than ever. This is due, inter alia, to: high population growth, high economic growth and low interest rates, but also the lack of a conscious national housing policy contributes to these high prices. The housing prices could be 10-20 pst. lower if the government had conducted an active housing policy, says Managing Director Baard Schumann of Selvaag Bygg in Finansavisen on 5 March. We build about 30,000 homes this year. The need is close to 40,000. In the same article, Bear Erik Eye of the Forecast Center calls the government's claim 15 p.m. equity on the purchase of the dwelling for ‘visionless, and guided by older men who pull up the ladder afterwards’. ‘Young people and immigrants are the big losers with today’s housing policy’, says Eye to the newspaper. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the government reduce the equity requirement, improve the BSU scheme or take other measures to help young people enter the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e245	First of all, it is the Financial Supervisory Authority that has set out the requirements for equity based on a soundness assessment, based on an assessment of what is necessary to help prevent new setbacks in the housing market, such as: in the late 1980s/beginnings of the 1990s. I believe that we should be very careful about overtaking that type of assessment, among other things. because we have seen both in Norway, when we had a housing crisis a few years ago, and in other countries, that too much debt financing can just lead to a crack, and then you really lose, because then you have a debt that is higher than the value of the dwelling. But in general, we're going to help build more dwellings. We want to have done it through the House Bank, through start-up schemes, through specific schemes for those who are most vulnerable in the housing market, and I think – perhaps so important – through, together with the municipalities and with various state agencies, what we can do to get a simpler planning process around housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e252	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e255	I agree with the Prime Minister that we should not oversee the type of establishment that the Financial Supervisory Authority has, but when the Financial Supervisory Authority then comes with such leadership, we may need other measures to maintain good health. But I want to challenge the Prime Minister on another important issue in our society – unfortunately, a growing issue. So there are 74 000 Norwegian children growing up in families with the current low income. We saw in the 1990s that child poverty went down, and a number of support schemes were put in place. Throughout the 21st century, developments have turned in the opposite direction. We have also experienced that welfare arrangements have been dismantled. For example, child-care services do not follow wage developments. A report funded by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare states that the number of families with children has increased. Poverty often frames individuals unexpectedly and randomly – not always unimaginably. But for the kids that get rammed, it's always unannounced, and you're completely innocent in the situation you're in. That is why the Christian People's Party has on several occasions proposed measures. No later did we have the distribution message for treatment here in Stortinget. We have proposed additional one-off support and cheaper kindergartens for poor families. We have said that cash support and child welfare must be kept out when we measure social assistance. My question to the Prime Minister is: When now the government enters its seventh year, is he satisfied with the results you see in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e264	We share Hareide's concerns with the full representative and are also concerned about the people who have it difficult in our country, and especially children. That's why this government has done a lot and is committed to doing even more to help people out of a difficult economic situation. There are different numbers with which different agencies operate, but evenly above all, all figures give the same picture: it is quite stable in terms of the proportion of the population living on persistently low incomes, and also in recent years it has been stable — it has fallen with some targets and gone up slightly with other targets. But no matter how you measure it, this isn't a question of statistics, but it's a question of people, and it's too many people living with persistently low incomes. What we're doing is, of course, the most important thing, is to help people live on their own income. Keeping unemployment low, ensuring that many people are at work, is the main reason why Norway is among the countries in the world with the highest income and the lowest poverty. The second thing we do is recognize that a major reason why some children grow up with parents with very poor finances is alcohol. So everything we can do to combat drug abuse is also crucial in the fight against poverty. Everyone knows that it is demanding to combat drug use, but it is all the more important that we make efforts to do so. A third reason we're struggling is that we know that the proportion of children living in low-income families is high among immigrants. We've had a lot of immigration. It has helped to make it possible that, although we have had a good deal of people out of poverty, new people have come into poverty – the immigrant groups. Integration and Norwegian training are important. So I want to say that for us, it's more important that we have cheaper kindergartens than we have increased child welfare, simply because we think it's a service that helps people out of poverty. That is why we have invested in cheaper and more kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e279	I can agree with a lot of what the Prime Minister here says. I totally agree that work is the most important thing. I also agree that when we see evolution, it has been increasing steadily over the last ten years. So the problem gets even larger and larger. Should we not then look at more targeted measures? When Prime Minister Bondevik left in 2005, he said that this was one of the areas he had wanted him to come further on. I actually feel that it is exactly the same word Prime Minister Stoltenberg says in this room now. Is the Prime Minister then willing to work together in this area and look at concrete measures? I'm thinking, for example: social assistance, as we know today, is curtailed against both child welfare and cash support. Is there anything the Prime Minister is willing to watch?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e286	Social assistance is a system that will fill up what you lack when you don't have money, but it's not a system that people should live on. That's why we're very concerned that it has a design that makes us not insist that people stay on social assistance. If you count on one or the other performance, it's really not crucial. The essential thing is to use social assistance to fill up what is missing for a short period of time in order to have a decent basis for life. The most important thing we do in the area of social assistance is what we've done to set up a qualification programme. It was Bjarne Håkon Hanssen who launched under the title: We need something to stand up to «in the morning». It is precisely those who go on social welfare for a long time to get an offer that allows them to get out of a life situation where they depend on social assistance. That qualification programme has been successful by the fact that a relatively large proportion of those who have gone on it have come out of a social assistance situation, gained their own income and got out of poverty. So that's the most important thing we do for social welfare recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e293	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e296	We know that cash support means a lot to the economy of low income families. The inclusion committee pointed out the need for transitional arrangements for these families. Another government-appointed selection, the Distribution Committee, said that in the short term, liquidation of the cash support will lead to increased economic differences, as some of these families currently receiving cash support will have difficulties in obtaining income. The Christian People's Party is for cash because we want to increase the family's freedom of choice. But the Christian People's Party is now concerned that the government in this year's budget removes the cash support for two-year-olds – without compensating for the loss of income for these families and without building enough kindergartens. My question to the Prime Minister is: how will the Prime Minister ensure that there will be no more poor children, now that the cash support for two-year-olds falls away?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e306	I believe that the compromise that has now been found for the cash support is a good solution, which means that the cash support has been raised for the one-year-olds. That is to say, for zero-year-olds and for one-year-olds, it is actually designed for those who want it to be at home, at least zero-year-olds with parents with parental leave. Then there are more rusty arrangements in the first year – that is, for the 1-year-olds. But then, like many other parties, we're concerned that we don't have orders that make us -- what to say -- financially punish those who choose to go to work. That's why this government has been busy making kindergartens cheaper. We have succeeded in achieving the goal of full child care coverage and cheaper kindergartens. That's what we've spent the big money on. We therefore believe it is appropriate to liquidate the cash support for two-year-olds and instead to provide nursery facilities, which they have also legalised, like any other person who complies with the requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e313	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e316	The Progress Party fully agrees with the Prime Minister that it is important to help people live on their own income. Therefore, the Progress Party also believes that it is essential to be able to create a safe and flexible working life with room for all. So we know that there are a lot of people out of work. We know that there are many children living in low-income families and in poverty. We know that there are 6,500 more children now living in poverty with low-income parents, compared to figures under the previous government. Some children go out for summer jobs and serve until e.g. the duty-free amount for participating in recreational activities. Today, these children have to join and finance the living of their parents by reducing the social assistance rates of their parents accordingly. Why does the Prime Minister think it makes sense for children who go out of the labour market to finance their parents rather than motivate them to participate in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e327	I don't dare go into all the details of just how social assistance is calculated, because I don't have an overview of that here I'm standing right now. But what I can generally say is that social assistance is not meant to be an arrangement you're going to live on over time. In Norway, either you should live off your income by being at work, or you are ill. Then you will live off a disability benefit, if necessary during a transitional period you will have to spend on redundancy payments while trying to get yourself into work. Our thinking is very clear that social assistance is a kind of temporary help to people with acute problems. Then it should fill out what is missing for a temporary period. Then you have to either get into normal work, get into education, or possibly get into social security, if the situation is that you can't live forever on your own income. That is why I am very concerned that the debate on social assistance should not be turned into a debate on what to live on. It's a temporary performance. We're going to help people out of that situation, and we're going to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e334	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e337	The Right Party and the Labour Party agree that the most important way to lift people out of poverty is to work. I also think it is very good that the Prime Minister says that one of the root causes of poverty in Norway is drug problems and psychiatric problems. At the same time, it is striking that since the time of Ansgar Gabrielsen as Minister of Health, there has been a requirement from the central government to health firms to have a higher rate of growth in drug and psychiatric treatment than in the rest of the enterprise. In the current year's budget, it's the first time that priority goes away. I also think it is paradoxical that, while talking about improving the situation of poor children, municipalities in Norway are experiencing the poverty pot to go to measures such as: the lending of sporting equipment and the sponsorship of leisure activities is empty half-way per year. Will the Prime Minister contribute to the reintroduction of a strict priority for drug care and to the increase of the poverty gap at local level? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e348	This government is significantly more concerned with care than the previous government did, and we are doing it in a better way, in my opinion, because the priority that happened before was to increase the priority of drug treatment based on cost figures. Thus, although there was no increase in productivity and no better use of the money, this was premiered. We have said that we should prioritize and measure in relation to activity. I think that's a much better way to control the public sector, that's a way that we get more money back – to use that expression. We also have a clear lead towards prioritising drug users in relation to outpatient treatment. It is crucial that overall efforts in the field of drug use have increased. I believe that the device is now such that instead of measuring costs, which is no measure of success, we measure effort – what we get, and activity – and that is a much better goal in terms of our country's care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e357	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e360	I would like to follow up on the round that has been here now, for this was also a theme in the previous election campaign. Then most people admitted that this isn't just easy, it's not like you're just removing poverty with a pen stroke. Already the first day after the last election campaign, the Left made a number of proposals to combat poverty. Anette Trettebergstien said when the proposals were discussed in the hall, that there were a number of good suggestions. But she wanted a broader approach and said that there would be a message, but the proposals that the Left had submitted required the government parties to deliver the message. Then came the message. It was an outline of what the government had done a long time ago. The most concrete thing we can find is the following two sentences: «The Government will assess the need for short-term and more targeted action towards particularly vulnerable groups in the context of the annual government budgets.» And... ‘The Government will therefore further address these issues and assess the need for any action.’ That's the most concrete thing we can find in the distribution notice. So we know that there have been 6,500 more children living in poor families under this government. Why does the Prime Minister think that all that has been done before should suddenly begin to work now, when we still see that there are more poor children? Why is it just the old recipes that are delivered? Why are there no new proposals to reach this particular group to combat the poverty that feels the most unfair, that is, the one children experience, because children have never chosen their childhood? Children have never chosen to grow up in poor families. Children get a bad start. It is an important freedom reform in Norway that, in fact, these children get the same start as all other children. Then we must not have more poor children, then we must have fewer poor children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e381	First of all, it is true that when you measure the proportion of the population who are poor, living below a poverty line — there are two different, there is an OECD border and an EU border — the objectives show that it is unchanged. But because we've become more people, it's measured in numbers. As a proportion of the population, it is stable. Obviously, when we have hundreds of thousands more people – I don't know if the number 6000 is right – it's still quite possible that as a proportion of the population there is a stable trend in Norway. After all, we have to count on the total population. All measures show slightly different images. A little independent of how to measure, the same general picture shows that Norway is among the world’s poorest countries and that there has been a stable development. That's point one in terms of number usage. Point two is that if it had been so that we could do one thing, or two-three simple things, and then poverty was abolished, both the previous and the current government would have done it too far. What is our desperate problem is that poverty is about very complex and difficult social mechanisms. I'm very concerned that many people live in poverty, live with major economic problems – and especially children. But then I say that the most important thing is work. We'll be better off than any other country. The second thing I'm saying is that those who are still in poverty in Norway are very often related to drugs. Parents drink, or parents do drugs. Everyone knows that's something we're really trying to do. But anyone who has faced a drug problem, everyone who has met people with drug problems, knows that it is a demanding thing to solve that problem. The third is immigration. All we can do for integration is the most important thing we can do to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e394	I'm not so busy with numbers, I'm most concerned with people. These children exist, these children live in these families, and we have – I believe – a moral obligation to fight for them to get out of it. The left presented 25 proposals in the distribution message: on the minimum standard of social assistance, redistribution of child welfare, kindergarten, SFO rates, housing measures, child protection, drug abuse, school health services, health measures for those under 18 years of age, low-threshold mental services, non-response measures and indebtedness measures. So we made a lot of suggestions. I'm not sure everyone was the best to get to the goal, but we were willing to talk to everyone to get to it. The government voted against all 25 proposals. If you have no new proposals, you could at least smell some of the other proposals that were put forward, you could at least join in and discuss some of the other proposals that were put forward, and you could try to have a dialogue with other parties. But the government voted down all the 25 proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e402	It is not true that this government does not promote other proposals. Firstly, the representative knows that matters should be dealt with properly. That's why we don't take things right in the hall, when they're promoted in the hall, but we come back with alternative suggestions. We have e.g. a reform of disability, which makes it much easier for disabled people — often among the poor — to work and thus have some income alongside disability. This will increase the availability of income for many and thus contribute to the improvement of total income. Secondly, we have presented this qualification programme, which is the most targeted effort to get people out of a situation where they are long-term recipients of social assistance. Thirdly, we have strengthened care significantly, and we must continue to strengthen care. And we have strengthened Norwegian training for immigrants, which is an important poverty response. Then I hear that there is a demand for social assistance, that is, for a minimum standard of social assistance. Well, when the Left sat in government, they sat for four years, and they didn't put it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e411	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e414	When the government is challenged by poverty, they very often say that they have succeeded in taking the richest, that the richest pay more taxes. That is good and good, but the idea of distribution between the poor and the rich should, in the view of the Left, apply in more areas than exactly tax – for example. the rights of the child, as also mentioned by the representative Trine Skei Grande. The left considers that the present system, all of which receives the same amount regardless of whether they need it or not, should be amended so that those with low incomes get more and those with high incomes get less. It would create a balance. Is this something the Prime Minister will assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e419	I feel that it's always stupid to say that no, I won't evaluate it. So I'd like to evaluate it. I have to admit that I have assessed it before, and then I have come to the conclusion that the arguments against having graduated are better than the arguments for. But I can change my mind, too, so I'll think through it and look at the arguments again. I understand that it is possible to argue for classified child welfare, because then they get with low incomes more than those with high incomes. It's very easy to understand. The problem with this is that it will be less profitable for those with low incomes to go to work. What we are very concerned about is not to create welfare systems that become poverty traps – where child welfare is curtailed once a low income gets into work and gets some extra income. Because that would happen. Then child welfare would be cut if you got to work, and then it'll be easy to get into poverty traps. Other countries that have tried similar schemes have consistently poor experience of this. That is why we are concerned about having cheap kindergartens – to keep the threshold into working life low – and not having too many needs-tested schemes that make it expensive to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e426	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e429	It was liberating to hear the Prime Minister say to the representative Trine Skei Grande that poverty cannot be eliminated, and we can conclude that it cannot, at least, be abolished ‘with a pen stroke’, as the government voted on in 2005. Although the Prime Minister says he cannot calculate the rates of social assistance, I want to challenge him a little further – a little more on the principle. We imagine a 16-year-old who has never been able to afford to participate in football tournaments because his parents live with a long-term low income, live on social life, that his parents are drug addicts: when the 16-year-old takes up a summer job and earns up to the tax-free amount – the free money limit of about NOK 40,000 – in order to be able to participate in that football tournament, does the Prime Minister think it is in principle right that the 16-year-old should support his parents, as one does today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e436	I mean, first of all, I'm going to be careful to deal with all the individual elements in the calculation basis for social assistance in a spontaneous questioning session in Stortinget. But what I'm very sure, in principle and fundamentally, is that we in Norway are going to set ourselves up so that parents can either live on their own income – and we do a lot for it and succeed in it – or live on a social security, and then there's no shortening of the income of the children. Social assistance is a very special scheme, which should be short-lived for some, and which is a help to fill out what is missing. That's what makes it a special scheme. So this is not something you should live on forever; it should help people either to work or to social security, so that you can live on it, without shortening the income of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e441	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e444	Step Skei Grande is right in saying that this discussion is about people. Too many people are in line for drug treatment – yes, there are more today than there were in 2005. Too many people are being pushed out of work. The Prime Minister said in his main reply that the most important thing is work. I agree. But the reality is that the share of jobs, i.e. the employment rate, is the same today as it was in 2005. In other words, you have failed to increase the proportion that is at work. The right has made a concrete proposal, relating to the obligation of employment for social welfare beneficiaries, namely that those who can work should work, in order to reduce the barriers to entry into working life. Why is the Workers' Party so skeptical?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e451	First of all, there have been 300,000 more employed in Norway during the period 2005–2011. It's about ten times as much growth in employment as under the previous government. Two out of three jobs have come from private enterprises. Unemployment is low and lower than under the previous government. It's relative to numbers and employment. In the case of work and social assistance recipients, requirements may be imposed. The Nav offices are demanding and should make demands on the beneficiaries of social assistance. The whole point of the qualification programme is that you should not only be able to make demands, but actually have some activity to offer – because a problem has been that too many people are actually a little cheaper just to provide social assistance than to provide social assistance with a requirement to participate in some action. After all, the qualification programme is that we provide people with an offer of some training, some schooling, some labour market measures as a prerequisite for receiving money under the qualification programme. So there are several people who do it, and so there are also others who come to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e458	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e462	I hear the Prime Minister says that the children who lose cash will have children's playgrounds. But what the state budget says is that new kindergartens are being built for only 20 pst., and that 80 pst. of those who lose their cash support will not have children’s beds – according to government budget figures. The only thing they're left with is $3,000 less. So the speech used by the Prime Minister. What we can say about this number usage is that this is a big problem. I agree with the Prime Minister that this is not easy. But as a society, do we have a strong enough effort and strong enough targeted tool for this? And why do we come, among other things? the return to social assistance? Well, because that's exactly what characterizes a lot of kids living in poor families, that's what affects them. Will the Prime Minister take a closer look at targeted measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e471	The answer to that question is yes. I am committed to constantly looking at targeted measures to help people who have a poor economy get a better economy. One targeted measure is to look at why those who are long-term beneficiaries of social assistance are. And then we get very different answers. We often talk about people who have a very difficult life situation, and who are quite tired. But we know that one main problem is for example. that they are unable to have a job. Then we have created the qualification programmes, which are their own programmes. You make an agreement with the social worker, and you say, "You're still going to get social assistance, you're actually going to get a little bit more if you're willing to go on this course, go on this labour market measure, or maybe take that education. So we've done that. We can see if we can strengthen it, but it's the most targeted action I've heard so far -- building a bridge out of poverty, out of social welfare, to work. We have then changed the disability benefit, so that you can be more easily exhausted and able to work alongside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e478	We move on to the next main question from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who will be today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e481	In the last few weeks, we have received in the media more examples of enterprises that are shutting down in Norway, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. suggests that the level of taxation in Norway makes it difficult to compete because the margins are pushed in Norwegian industry, Norwegian industry, compared to competitors. In this context, it is possible to see that the state has record revenues. In 2012, revenue is estimated to be 1238 billion. kr. It's almost half of GDP. Some of the revenue comes from the oil, but a lot comes from the wallets to Norwegian business and to people most. The government's non-oil income was 557 billion. kr in 2005. In 2012 they were a total of 860 billion. kr. So this is an increase of over 300 billion. kr in taxes and charges. At the same time, everyone knows that the government promised to stick to the level of taxation in 2004. When they started raising taxes in 2006 and 2007, they gave the impression of being at that level. But in a good spirit of pride, much happens in the grey zone of their promise. The government has, for example: have chosen to keep a number of taxes and taxes outside the calculation basis when they are to say what the level of taxation in Norway is. The property tax has increased from 4.3 billion. DKK to SEK 7.1 billion. kr, the toll collection has increased from 3.4 billion. NOK up to SEK 9.3 billion. kr during the period of this government. Recently, green certificates have been introduced, but have nevertheless maintained the fees that a previous levy has been imposed to finance the same things. Only these three examples show that the burden on taxpayers with State taxes and taxes has increased by 10 billion. kr. But the government gives the impression that the tax burden is unchanged. I do not agree that the 2004 level of taxation is the best, but it would have been an advantage, in the view of the Progress Party, if the government tried to keep to the 2004 level. Can we expect that to happen at the next state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e490	Firstly, it is true that the government has said that it should keep the same level of taxation as in 2004. It is not a randomly chosen year, some of which have been given the impression: it is the year in which a broad tax settlement was made on a new tax system in this country. Then the Workers' Party said they wanted to have a tax system that continued today's tax level, i.e. in 2004, while the Right and Advance Party promised tens of billions in lower taxes. We still warn against it, because we believe that promising tens of billions in lower taxes means that there will be less money for school, for kindergartens, for the community that we need to expand the welfare of this country. That is the big difference in Norwegian policy. So the Right Party and the Advance Party are still drivers for us to make significant tax cuts, and then it will necessarily be smaller, for example. knowledge and to e.g. road construction. That's point one. Point two: We have explained in an innumerable amount of government budgets that what is about the level of taxation is a continuation of the legislation we had then – the level of taxation that it would give. The numbers used are a little bit special, because it's obvious that when we become a few hundred thousand more people, or for example. when the national product increases by quite a percentage, it is clear that with the same tax system, tax revenue is increased. It's not that if it moves 100,000 into the country, we're going to reduce the tax rate. We're going to have the same tax rate, but there are more people, increased tax revenue. The fact that we've got 300,000 more jobs since we took over means that, with the same tax rate, there's an increase in tax revenue. It should be quite difficult not to understand that what we said in 2004 and 2005 was about the level of taxation that followed the tax rules we had at the time, and not that if we became more Nordics, or we got more jobs, we would reduce the tax rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e499	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e502	Let me try to clarify for a slightly confused prime minister. My point was not that if there are fewer people in Norway, we will reduce taxes. The point was that many of the taxes that the government imposes on the Norwegian people, they deliberately choose to stay out of it when they calculate the tax level. I used three concrete examples. I can repeat the two largest ones: property taxes and tolls. Only the two make up almost 10 billion. kr in increased revenue to the government, as compared to when the government took over. It is then possible to give the impression that the level of taxation is the same. But the taxes that are on the outside of the calculation base have been raised. That's to cheat in relation to the promise you make. Then my question is, to try to get this even clearer: will the future state budget include all taxes and taxes levied on Norwegian taxpayers for things that have always been paid through taxes, but which you now have to pay through property taxes and tolls, so that we get a real picture of the level of taxation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e511	We will stand for what we said before the 2005 elections, which we repeated before the 2009 elections. There are, for example: tolls have never been included in the overall level of taxation in Norway. That means that if a municipality, if you choose to reduce tolls locally, it's not that we count it as tax-free, just as little as we count it as tax-added if you increase tolls somewhere. Similarly, property taxes apply. It has never been included in the taxes we calculated when we took a position on the tax level in 2004, simply because it is a voluntary municipal tax. If a municipality chooses to bring down the property tax, we don't consider it State tax relief. But not the other way around: if a municipality chooses to set up the property tax, we won't count it as a tax increase by the state either, because it's a voluntary municipal tax. The fact that many progressive party municipalities are now taxing property may be the problem of the Progress Party. At least it is not my problem that the Progress Party around the municipalities is for both tolls and property taxes. There's something you should take to the Chamber in the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e518	You know that's a lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e523	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e526	It was interesting to hear the Prime Minister's reasonably simple economic philosophy, that tax relief is automatically less for schools and kindergartens, but we've heard it before. I'm going to ask the Prime Minister another question. The Prime Minister often expresses his commitment to maintaining the competitiveness of the Norwegian export industry. Competitiveness is developed in a combination of productivity, creativity, design, quality and not least price. In the 1970s, the then government and Norway’s largest employee organisations were involved in income policy cooperation. This meant that employees accepted lower nominal salary supplements, in return for tax relief by the State in return. It was referred to as a Kleppe package, which the Prime Minister probably knows about. This was done to ensure a healthy economy and the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Today, we see trends that higher compensation of employees contributes to pricing the Norwegian export industry out of the international market. This happens at the same time as the state is getting richer and richer. Does the Prime Minister think that the Kleppe package in the 1970s was a good measure? Is the Prime Minister prepared to do the same again to ensure the competitiveness of the Norwegian export industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e536	I mean, we can always learn from history. I think we've learned that we should set up economic policy in a way that makes us get the results we're getting. The results we now get are that we have had record growth in the Norwegian economy. We were hit by the financial crisis, but we see that after a fall in private employment we are again on the right track with employment in the private sector. I'm concerned about the cost level of parts of the competitive industry, but I don't think general general tax relief helps to improve their cost level. On the contrary, a more expansive fiscal policy will contribute to increased wage growth in the sheltered sector and thus also push wages in the competitive sector. So I don't believe it as a general tool. I believe that we need to continue a policy of responsible oil money use, which is about income policy cooperation, and then warn against huge tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e541	Inherit Kambe - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e544	From the right, we think it tends to be a solid tax blow, which has been going on for almost eight years, and which may be completed. A government period was started by saying that the tax level should be similar to that of the Bondevik II government, which removed 25 billion. kr, and the government is governed on the basis of it. In practice, there is no change, they claim. But the fact is that the Norwegians have never paid more in taxes and taxes than now under the Stoltenberg administration. That's hundreds of billion dollars every year. The government has a great deal of ingenuity in finding new taxes and taxes. An example of this is that the government, by the taxation rules that the government is now introducing to increase the value of the equation and hence the property tax, the State part of the property tax, wants to make it easier for municipalities to increase, introduce and revalue property taxes. Will the Prime Minister stop it for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e549	In this article there are at least two things that are completely wrong. One is that people pay a hundred billion more dollars in taxes. That's a completely meaningless way of thinking about it. It's like that, for example. VAT is 25 pst. It was under Bondevik, and it's under me. When the consumption rises, of course, tax revenue increases, because people buy more in the stores. You have to be quite specific if you think it's a tax increase. The fact that people go and buy significantly more in stores now than in 2005, means that we get increased tax revenues, but that doesn't mean that people pay more in taxes when they go to the store and trade clothes or what they have to do there. So if you in the Right thought that I was going to reduce VAT by a couple of percentage points every time the consumption went up a couple of percentage points, I'm more concerned about Right's economic competence than really anything else. Of course, total tax revenue rises when the activity of the economy rises, but the tax level does not rise. [[The President clubs.]] That's two completely different things. That was point one.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e554	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e557	The Christian People's Party sees no need for the major changes in the level of taxation, neither up nor down. For the Christian People's Party, the tax level is a matter of balanced governance. Sometimes we wonder about a simplified presentation both on the right and on the left in this debate. The Prime Minister — as an example — clearly has the simple analysis that there is a direct link between the level of taxation — if taxes are to be reduced — and the level of welfare. Now we have had seven years of red-green government, and we see the queues in health care, serious failure in the care of the elderly and – I don't know what kind of words I'm going to use – the situation in child protection. I get a little indignant on behalf of Norwegian children's protection children who hear, indirectly, through the Prime Minister's reasoning: you see, we only have a thousand billion dollars on the state budget at your disposal, so we can't give you a real deal. It won't last. If the relationship between the level of taxation and the level of well-being is so simple, my question to the Prime Minister is: why does the red-green government not increase taxes to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e564	Firstly, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is warning against great tax relief, which the Right and the Advance Party are in favour of. Going into the tens of billions of lower taxes, as these parties do, necessarily means getting less money into the common fund to solve important problems. I perceive that the Christian People's Party really shares the approach of the Workers' Party to the overall level of taxation – that we should continue the level of taxation we have today. It's not the level of taxation of the Bondevik government, for those who had to believe it, it's the level of taxation we had when we made the tax settlement in 2004. That means we increased the taxes by about 12 billion. kr compared to what the Bondevik government had and added – there is point one. Point two: Just because we need a balance, and we need predictability, I think it gives Norwegian economy – Norwegian businesses – predictability that we are saying that we are continuing today's tax level, which is a high tax level, and which gives us money to solve important welfare tasks. I therefore warn against tax cuts, but I believe that we can continue today's level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e571	So the oral questioning process is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e583	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Mr Träldal to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, this question is moved and answered before question 9, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 2, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg and Jan Arild Ellingsen, respectively, to the Minister for Defence, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative Trond Helleland to the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time after consultation between the questioner and the state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e598	Question 1, as adopted, will be answered before question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e610	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. The first question to be answered after these changes is question 3 from the representative Anders B. Werp to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e619	‘Two highly recognised researchers have applied for information from the former Stasi filed with PST. The application was sent in October 2011, it has not been answered. In the cold water of the Lund Commission, Stortinget adopted a line of transparency in the rules for the treatment of monitoring material from the cold war. This principle must continue to be followed, and it is also in line with the so-called Gotland manifesto signed by several researchers. When do researchers get answers, and what degree of transparency does the Ministry base?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e626	The so-called Rosenholz files were interpelled on 6 December last year. I then expressed that this is historical material that can provide important insight into an interesting era. The Ministry of Justice is now looking at the possibilities of obtaining relevant material for Norway. As part of the follow-up to the interpellation, the Department has examined how to relate to the Rosenholz material in Denmark and Sweden. As I understand it, both countries have come into possession of copies of the Rosenholz material as part of criminal investigation. In Denmark, the material shall be available to researchers through the Danish Institute for International Studies. In a White Paper presented on 9 February of this year, the Swedish Government proposes that no vis-à-vis US authorities should be carried out in relation to the material on Swedish citizens. No legislative changes were proposed to regulate the access of researchers to this type of material. Both former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget and I have previously clarified to Stortinget that the police security service, PST, does not have the so-called Rosenholz files in its archives. However, in a limited number of cases, as mentioned above, there is a copy of documents from the archive to Stasi, including Rosenholz files. The two researchers Thomas Wegener Friis and Helmut Müller-Enberg sought the PST in a letter dated 26 October 2011 for transparency in two types of material. First, it is about copies of maps from the Rosenholz archive, to the extent that this is available in Norway. Secondly, transparency was sought in any studies that shed light on the spying of the GDR State Security Service in Norway, without any time- or thematic constraints. The justification for the application is given for research in the East German spying against the Nordic countries during the Cold War, without any further details. The police security service only transmitted its assessment to the ministry on 28 March of this year. The PST communication did not include the application submitted by the researchers. This was sent in the middle of last week. After my assessment, the PST should forward the application with its assessments faster than the case is. The information held by the police is generally subject to professional secrecy according to different rules depending on whether it is information in criminal matters or information relating to other activities of the police. In this context, the focus will be on privacy and police operational activities and cooperation relations. Furthermore, the provisions of the Security Act will apply if information needs to be protected for security reasons. Further clarifications and assessments will be needed before conclusion. Having said this, I would like to stress that we aim to decide on the application as soon as possible. At the same time, I ask for an understanding that I cannot, unfortunately, give any instructions on an exact date.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e648	I fully understand that you need a good time to process an application, so I have no reason to criticize neither the PST nor the Council of State for that particular relationship. Rules and procedures must, of course, be followed. But I get a little worried when I hear the Council refer to a Nordic approach to the Rosenholz material – the Rosenholz card cards. What is important to emphasise, in the opinion of the Right, is that the government has to take a self-responsive responsibility to contact the US authorities in order to get the total Norwegian material that the CIA is holding today handed over to Norway. Norway can then pass this on to the Stasi archive in Berlin for further sound documentation and archiving. How does the Council of State view addressing the CIA and getting the total material here to Norway first, and then hand it over to Berlin?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e657	This was the central theme of the interpellation debate. Let me say here and now quickly that it's a Nordic approach, but we found it right and interesting to identify how our neighboring country has dealt with this matter. As was also the case during the interpellation, we see that this should be applied for – without seizing large labour force in the PST, and where research environments should be at the heart. Regardless of this, we now have an application from two foreign researchers who we will seek to deal with correctly, correctly and thoroughly, and respond to both dimensions of the enquiry that has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e664	I am pleased with the approach of the Council of State on our communication to the US authorities and the Norwegian Rosenholz material. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State about the availability of this material — I assume that the total material comes to Norway from the United States. The Lund Commission's report, which was dealt with with with broad political support in Stortinget, added to a line of transparency with regard to the monitoring material of the Cold War. Just these days, it is important to reap the experiences that the Cold War gave us, in the approach of extremist ideologies – to put it that way. To what extent does the Council of State view transfer values from the transparency line used by the Lund Commission in the treatment of researchers’ access to PST data from the Cold War in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e671	This is, as I mentioned, material that I think may be of great interest, and where it is important to have a transparency line, so that this can also be made available to those who might have an interest in the matter. At the same time, it is important to say that this may be material developed in connection with criminal proceedings. There may be security and personal circumstances that warrant detention with information. It's these considerations we and, not least, scientists – when that time comes – have to do. But, as I said, openness must be the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e682	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In February 2012, a new penal code was adopted in Iran. According to various human rights organisations, it is designed to make it much easier for Iranian authorities to issue death sentences against people who have converted from Islam to other faiths. Despite this, converted Iranians have recently experienced being returned from Norway to Iran or live with a return warning. How does the information on new Iranian criminal law become relevant to Norwegian return practices of converters to Iran?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e691	The Foreign Affairs Act states that no one should be returned to their country of origin if they are at risk of persecution because of their religion. This includes those who risk persecution in their homeland because they have changed their religion. It is the Foreign Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department that decide matters and complaints under the Foreign Affairs Act and assesses the individual’s need for protection based on asylum applications and the country information available at all times. Neither members of the Government nor the Ministry may intervene in or influence the outcome of individual cases, with the exception of matters relating to fundamental national interests or to foreign policy considerations. The foreign authorities follow closely the situation of the converters, including: through the professionally independent country information unit - Landinfo. If Iran brings into force a law prohibiting the conversion from Islam, the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department will focus on the content of the law and the practice of the law when assessing whether a convert needs protection. As far as Iran is concerned, I am also aware that the foreign authorities believe that conversion itself does not provide a need for protection, but that a concrete assessment of the persecution risk should be made on a case-by-case basis. Conversion has therefore formed the basis for asylum in a number of asylum cases from Iran. Last June, the Foreign Affairs Department went out publicly and said that they had received new information related to Iran's Convertites. In view of this, around 140 requests for the conversion of previous decisions were received in the autumn of 2011. Most of these were motivated by conversion. The foreign student now expects to hold several meetings in order to assess these conversion issues. I would also like to stress that I am confident that the foreign authorities will make an individual, thorough and sound assessment of the need for protection in all cases where persecution is stated because of conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e704	It is said, therefore, that conversion itself does not necessarily provide a need for protection for converters coming from Iran. But if the new penal code is practiced, the law in Iran will be tightened even more. As I said in my opening question, human rights organisations say that the law is designed to make it easier for Iranian authorities to issue the death penalty against people. Will this not mean that we have to think differently about forcing converts to Iran, if this law is implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e709	At least I won't rule it out. That's what's in the whole answer. This is a situation that needs to be followed closely, and where the information — both on law and on implementation — is crucial to be dealt with, for both the Foreign Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department. There is some background to the fact that the information we now receive has, of course, triggered requests for conversion, and that there will also be issues that are addressed by mention.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e714	I am grateful for the answer the Minister of Justice gives me. I've read a lot of issues about converts and looked at reasons for rejection, and see, among other things. that more people are refused because the conversion is not believed. This is very serious. How will the Minister of Justice ensure that all information on the conversion is on the table? What I'm concerned about is that the foreign agencies also listen to clergymen, deacons and others who have good knowledge of the conversion history of the convert when their credibility is assessed. Will the Council of State ensure that these too are listened to when assessing whether the conversion is real or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e721	Unfortunately, it is not the first time that our foreign authorities have had to deal with very demanding questions. The more important it is to ensure good access to information, and Landinfo knows I have additional information from many organisations. It is also not the first time that the foreign authorities have to deal with the reality of a difficult issue, and that is why I say that I also trust that the authorities will make a good and thorough assessment in these matters too in order to arrive at the right decision. I am absolutely sure that this will also be a subject that will be closely followed by us in the department – I can assure you – and I think there will also be others, both in political parties here in the hall and in other departments, who will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e732	‘In the debate on dynamic effects in fiscal policy, the government has claimed that lower average taxes reduce labour supply due to ‘the effect of income’. On the other hand, the Evening Post on 31 March 2012 shows that the real wage growth in the last 30 years could defend the fact that people worked three days a week, which they have not done. People have largely maintained the job offer despite increased real income. Will the Council of State take the initiative in a professional inquiry into the dynamic effects of tax changes based on the current tax system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e739	Firstly, there is no contradiction between what the Ministry of Finance has said about the effects of lower average taxes on labour supply and what appears in that article in the Evening Post. It is not the Ministry of Finance’s view that lower average taxes in full – krone for krone – will turn into lower employment offers, as the representative Solvik-Olsen suggests. Reduced average taxes will increase disposable income, all the same. Economic theory and empirical research show that the increase in purchasing power this gives could be used to demand more of all goods. One good is leisure time, and the increased demand for leisure time is the same as the reduced supply of work. But the increased purchasing power will also increase demand for other goods and services, so there is only a small part of the increase in disposable income that will be withdrawn during reduced working hours. That article in the Evening Post also confirms that: ‘Some of the growth in purchasing power has actually taken off in shorter working hours, i.e. more leisure time. In 1987 we went from 40 hours a week to a normal week of work of 37.5 hours, and in the years 2001–2002 we received an additional week of holidays.’ The national accounts show that, since 1970, the increase in income has partly decreased in working time. In 1970, an average of 1,835 hours was worked by an employed person over a year. This had dropped to about 1,426 hours in 2011. The Ministry of Finance is involved in Norwegian and international tax research, including research on the relationship between tax and behaviour. This research also includes the effects of changes in the Norwegian tax system, including dynamic effects. In this context, I do not see any need to initiate further investigations into the dynamic effects of tax changes based on the current tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e757	It is a more moderate finance minister I hear now than we have experienced in some written questions we have received answers from the same finance minister. It shows that the government is moving a little bit at this point, and that's very good. We also see that the government is more positive in making calculations of the dynamic effects of tax changes in the 2012 budget than they were when the opposition asked questions about the same in the context of the 2011 budget. But I'm not happy that one just says that one goes along with what happens when it comes to research internationally, because one knows that the state secretary who in the media is most engaged in this, SVs Roger Schjerva, more or less rejects that tax affects people's desire for anything, that it's just to increase taxes if one wants to increase the state's income. That's why it also has a lot to do with how an interpreter does different reports, and that's why I want us to get this in a more formalized format that an investigation will be. I think it'll be a pleasure for everyone that we get an investigation that puts a stronger premise on the public debate, rather than just interpretations from the SV Secretary of State, who I don't have much confidence in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e764	Now Secretary of State Schjerva is an unusually capable and good secretary of state, but enough about it. It is true that the Ministry of Finance has never taken away from the fact that tax changes or changes in taxes affect employment and affect people’s behaviour — it is an important starting point. For several years, the Ministry of Finance has funded research into the relationship between tax change and labour supply. An example is the so-called Tax Research Programme which was launched in 1988, and which now has a theme in the programme period 2011–2016, which is tax adaptation and distribution. This includes, inter alia: research on how labour supply is affected by changes in tax legislation. We are involved in international work and are involved in financing important Norwegian research programmes in this area, so I think it should keep up with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e773	I still want to maintain my desire that the government take the initiative in an investigation, because it provides a more professional document than just relying on the assessments of those who read other people's investigations. I also believe that the article that was in the post of the evening refutes some of the approaches adopted by the Department of the Council of State. When they have answered our questions about dynamic tax effects in the past, they have always assumed that a primary if you get more in the payroll bag will work less – a priority is the leisure approach. That article in the Evening Post indicated the opposite. Although not to say that an interview with individuals is to be equated with scientific research, it is still the macro figures here that, although you have reduced the working week a little, you have far from gone down to the three-day week, which economic growth could correspond to, precisely because people are – whether they like it or not – materialistic. They shop when the Minister of Finance encourages it, and it affects the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e780	We will probably have a rich opportunity to discuss this issue further. In that context, I also refer to the answer I gave earlier today. Then I'm glad that the representative Solvik-Olsen says that one can't build everything on an article or an interview that's in the evening post, and it's actually also so that people are different in the sense that someone certainly has a materialistic approach, others have a less materialistic approach. But I think we can quickly agree that changes in taxes and taxes at least help to influence people's behaviour. And then we're going to have to go on with the discussion at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e791	‘In the tender for air concessions in Lofoten, Danish Air Transport, DAT, was chosen as an operator. Following the appeal by Onøe, the Ministry of Transport has turned 180 degrees and assigned To Onøe, the competitor of DAT, the operational responsibility for the flight. This has led to the purchase of many tickets, which are no longer valid today. What will the Council of State do to protect business and the rights of individuals, so that innocent people will not experience the loss of paid services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e798	A good regional air route offer is important to reduce distance congestion and ensure efficient transport for people and businesses in the districts. Hence, the government is in favour of operating regional air routes. The offer is given in the form of an arrangement for the purchase of air route services after the bidding process. In connection with the bidding competition held to secure regional air route operations on 19 routes from 1 April this year, it turned out, unfortunately, after the offer, that the carrier Danish Air Transport, which was allocated four routes in Lofoten and Ofoten, would not be able to start the route operations on those established conditions. In the situation that occurred then, I focused on limiting the damage by ensuring a continuous flight offer in Lofoten and Ofoten for the care of residents and businesses. In the interest of the complaint made by the carrier and the treatment thereof, the Ministry of Transport has concluded temporary contracts for scheduled service on these routes with the airline Ontøe. Alternatively, the route offer would have stopped on 1 April. So the question of airline tickets. Danish Air Transport opened for the ticket hall on the routes in Lofoten and Ofoten after the allocation on 19 January and linked the ticket hall again at the conversion on 23 March. Danish Air Transport has informed us that they fully refund all tickets purchased. As I know, this is followed up in a very tidy way. Unfortunately, it was not possible in the temporary agreement with Onderøe to provide any solution for the provision of scheduled air services on Onterøe’s flights with tickets purchased from Danish Air Transport. This means that passengers have to buy a new ticket from Onderøe if they want to make the trip. Existing reimbursement arrangements mean that passengers should not lose what they have paid, even if there will be some disadvantages and extra costs for those who have to rebook.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e815	I thank you for your answer. As I understood it, the Ministry of Transport was already informed by the Air Safety Authority in December that Danish Air Transport could not deliver operational responsibilities that satisfied the requirements of the tender document for continued concession. Nevertheless, we see that ticket sales to individuals and businesses continued a long time after this. Should this not have been stopped long before by the Ministry of Transport, or should it not have gone out earlier with information to the consumer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e822	In the bidding competition held to secure regional air route operations on a number of routes from 1 April of this year, the Ministry of Transport awarded a contract on 19 January for four routes in Lofoten and Ofoten to the carrier Danish Air Transport, which had seen the lowest take-off requirement for the area in question. That means that at that time we expect that the objections raised by the Air Safety Authority were cleared of the road. Before we could contract with Danish Air Transport, new information was provided. That's what made the department on 23 March found it necessary to make the decision to allocate the four routes to DAT. Instead, we unfortunately had to reject the supply of DAT on these four routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e829	I thank you for your answer. In the field of aviation, it is today that the time period for an airline to deal with new tender documents and technical requirements for operational responsibilities and flights is actually very short. In other words, there is a short time to satisfy new receivables and changes. In the West we have experienced this with Onyøe and Florø airport, and we have now experienced it with Danish Air Transport. Will the Council of State look at the possibility of extending the conversion time of companies so that they are given sufficient time to invest in upgrades and security, thereby increasing predictability for companies and, in particular, facilitating real competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e838	What I can say first of all, is that we saw work on competition at a time earlier than we used to, just to ensure that there was a longer period of time. Now, the experience that we've gained now, we're going through it very carefully, precisely because we know that this could be an improvement potential. So exactly this case is now subject to complaint. We have concluded temporary contracts on these routes, and we will return with a processing of this complaint as soon as possible, and also with a summary of the experience we have gained in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e849	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The main roadway through Østerdalen rv. 3 is temporarily closed due to large ice passages in the river Tunna. Also elsewhere on this route there is a danger that ice and water will cause the road to be closed. What remedial measures will the Council of State consider to avoid the closure of rv. 3 under such conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e858	It's been ice-cold in eleven Tuna eight to ten times in the last 30 years. A few times it has an impact on traffic on Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox After the event this year, the State Road Service is in dialogue with the NVE on the current measures to solve the problem. Lifting the road may be a measure, but this may have other negative consequences. Riksveg 3 through Østerdalen, from Elverum to Kvikne, is almost 250 km long. The Glomma is the main watercourse in the Baltic Valley, but several major watercourses such as Rena, Imsa, Atna, Folla, Tunna, Ya and Orkla run along or are crossed by the highway. In addition, there is a large amount of smaller side rivers and basins with the potential for ice and flooding, which may affect traffic development along the main trajectory through the Baltic Valley. There are a total of 63 small and large bridges on the route. Risk and vulnerability analyses are being carried out in the context of ongoing remedial actions to reduce the challenges of natural forces in the Baltic Valley. Such analyses are carried out in cooperation with relevant governmental powers and in accordance with the Planning and Building Act. Measures to reduce the damage are assessed in relation to the benefits of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e867	I thank the Council of State for an answer that was not really an answer to what to do in the future, but to what has happened, and is happening. As the council says, only the river Tunna has had eight to ten times in the last 30 years. So it's not just this year it's happened, but many, many times earlier. Many other rivers can also be, and are, a problem for this way. If I remember correctly, there are also 63 bridges along the 250 kilometers, so it's clear that it's an exposed road calculation. But at the same time we have to remember that this isn't any way. This is rv. 3 between the north and the south. It carries a lot of goods and a lot of people, and if it gets shut down, it's a big social problem. Therefore, I am not satisfied that things are being evaluated – something has to happen! That there's a little bit of patching going on here and there, the Center Party and individual representatives are happy to take credit for it, but something else has to happen. That's what I'm looking for in this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e874	Let me tell Brevold that in different situations, it is important to address relevant measures. During the flood of damage in 1995, rv. 3 connected four different sites due to flooding in the main watercourse of Glomma and Folla, in the municipalities of Stor-Elvdal and Alvdal. Mostly, the road was closed for seven days. The Pentecostal plume in 2010 had a different development; it was the smaller tributaries that caused traffic problems. By Trønnes was rv. 3 disconnected for about three days. So it is important to be prepared in relation to precisely these acute situations, and here, risk and vulnerability analyses are very important in the context of ongoing remedial actions. Then the representative of Bredvold is well aware of that rv. 3 we upgrade systematically year by year, cf. what we have been told in connection with a previous question, that to rv. 3 has been added at least 100 new million each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e881	I thank you once again for your answer. That's right. 3 is upgraded every year, and there are many who have the credit of it. Maybe I have a little bit of credit, maybe central party representatives and maybe the center party as well. So I think we have a common honor for it, if we're going to start distributing honor. But the important thing is that something happens, and I think it happens too little. It's not enough to assess, but we also have to have a readiness that works. Here it may seem that, at least in this case to which reference is made in the question, the preparedness was not there. I also miss a better cooperation between the NVE and the State Road Administration. I know it's meetings, but often they're meetings after things have happened. I think we should have meetings before things happen. I believe that we need to repair the road faster than what happens. That's what the Council of State says, there are many rivers and bridges along this road, and the spring comes once a year, and it comes in different ways, of course – but this is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e890	What the representative Mr Bredvold and I are a few of them about is for one thing to say. 3 is a very important way, and it is good that there are constant improvements here. So he points to something that's crucial, and it's this to have an extra readiness. Now it's like this road has our ice in eleven barrels eight to ten times in the last 30 years. Action has been taken in relation to these events. Ras and Flaum, we see an increasing number of places where we didn't even think it would happen. Hence, everything called readiness will be strengthened in the future. It also means that the NVE and the State Road Service will probably have even closer contact even when it comes to preparedness than they have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e901	‘In the media, we have been able to read that the Minister of Health and Welfare has been in Switzerland to learn about drug care. The left is concerned with a comprehensive care system that also opens up new orientation in drug treatment. Did the Council of State come home from Switzerland with some good suggestions that could improve the Norwegian Russorgen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e908	I could make this very simple and answer yes, but I'll elaborate on it a little bit. It's right that the representative Tenden mentions that I've been to Switzerland. The background to the visit was as well known that I am going to provide a big message about drug policy. The cancellation message will include, among others: address prevention, how to organise services for people with drug problems, and how to reduce harm and the negative consequences of drug use. This applies to the individual, to relatives and to other persons concerned. The Communication will also review the proposals put forward by the Stoltenberg Committee in June 2010 and which have been at the hearing. A majority of the sample proposed to launch a pilot project involving heroin treatment in LAR – medically assisted rehabilitation. Switzerland has had such an offer for more than 15 years, and that is where we find about half of them. 3 000 opiate addicts included in global heroin-assisted treatment. It was therefore both nearby and natural to go to Switzerland to see how the provision of drug addicts has been put up, and what results they can point to. What was particularly interesting was the overall policy in this area, which means that healthcare, social services, police and others work closely together to achieve common goals. However, I would like to stress that experience from other countries is not always directly transferable to our society. The representative tend to ask if I came home with some good suggestions that could improve the Norwegian care system. Proposals related to future drug care in Norway will be brought back to my mind in the context of the drug policy issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e921	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hear now that she will come back to the matter. The left is very busy getting changes in care. At the latest today, in the spontaneous questioning session, there was just child poverty, where simply rushing is one of the main causes, one of the themes. We have had many suggestions here in Stortinget. We want more emergency detoxification sites and have proposed a 24-hour treatment guarantee after detoxification. The left has also proposed to recognise drugs as its own medical speciality in order to raise their status and recruit better to the disciplines. The left also wants to launch a pilot project in which decision-makers with special competence and interest in drugs may be given the opportunity to prescribe medical treatment. Is this something the Council of State wants to include in its message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e932	Now we're aiming to deliver this message before the summer, and it would be unnatural to go into single proposals now. What I can assure you at least is that everything that has been proposed has been evaluated or will be assessed until the notification is presented. What is certain is that this will be a message about both alcohol, doping and drugs. That's why it's going to be a complete message where we want to see this whole area together. Clearly, both relatives, children and others are strongly influenced by other people’s drug abuse. I'll come back to many of these proposals. In fact, more emergency treatment sites have been in recent times, but we always have to assess whether we should have more. Of course, when it comes to recruitment, it's an important part of being able to have a good care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e939	I thank you again for the answer. We're waiting in suspense until the message arrives before summer. The left is also concerned about the need for optimal psychiatric treatment for addicts with mental disorders in addition to their drug dependence. In the past, the Council of State has been confronted with the setting-up of the TEDD, a cross-disciplinary unit for double diagnosis. Governments have assured the Storting that these patients must and must receive a good offer in the future. In January of this year, however, she could not answer how. My question is therefore whether the Council of State understands the time and the forces it takes to build a good professional environment in a department, and whether she has been thinking about how any new treatment services can be integrated into those that already exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e946	Russ and psychiatry are very interrelated in some contexts. There has been a lot more focus on this topic in recent times, and there is now much greater understanding that these problems need to be seen together. I experience that the major institutions, such as Oslo University Hospital and Health Bergen, which are the two most addicted – at least the largest – are very aware of the problem. They also develop good treatment provision for this group. It is quite clear that this is an important part of the care. I just insist on what I said: these should have a good offer. Changing the structure does not mean changing the intention that these should be well treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e955	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e962	This question, from the representative of Mr Träldal to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e965	‘A number of media headlines related to Easter have focused on emergency preparedness in the mountains during winter. Due to rigid rules on outdoor motor travel, there are strong limitations on the ability of rescue and relief teams to operate with practice in their respective areas of action during winter. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the legislation on motor travel in outland areas for rescue and relief teams in order to ensure life and health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e972	The short answer is yes – and it sounds a little bit longer as follows: Auxiliary Corpses and other rescue organisations have a very important function. Many are eventually the skiers who can thank the rescue service for their life and health. Therefore, of course, the rescue service must be provided with the necessary training and training. Motor travel in the field is regulated by the Motor Travel Act and its related regulations. In the protection areas, in addition to the rules of the Motor Travel Act, the Nature Diversity Act and the Protection Regulations apply to the individual protection areas. The starting point of the Motor Travel Act is that all motor travel in the field is prohibited. This applies both within and outside the protection zones. The prohibition shall ensure both the nature and the consideration of outdoor life and the experience of tranquillity and tranquillity. However, the legislation provides for a high degree of user-friendliness for different purposes. Outside the protection areas, the Motor Traffic Act exempts the motor traffic ban for driving in connection with ‘police, ambulance and rescue and custody services established by law’. This applies not only to driving in the actual emergency situations, but also to driving in connection with exercises and training for police and Norwegian Red Cross Helpdesk, Norwegian People's Aid, Norwegian Rescue Dogs and similar voluntary relief organisations participating in the public rescue service. The exercises must be part of an exercise programme, i.e. that there are real exercises that are part of the rescue service. Within the protection zones, driving exercises must be carried out after dispensation by the administrative authorities of the individual protection zones. Of course, the rescue service must have conditions to provide the necessary preliminary rescue service, and becoming known in the areas is a central element of this. At the same time, it is important to have guidelines and practices that take into account nature and outdoor experiences, and in the protection areas, it is particularly important to keep protective values. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Justice are therefore working together on a new circular on driving for the rescue services in protection areas. The guidelines shall provide the necessary training and training spaces for the rescue services, while ensuring that the protection values are taken into account. As part of the work on the circular, the Minister for the Environment will soon take the initiative of a meeting with the Red Cross to discuss the issues that arise. The objective is to establish uniform, clear and practical guidelines for the preparation services of the rescue services. This ensures consistent practices across the country and avoids unnecessary local variations. The circular should be in place before the next winter. I thank you for the question and am happy to be able to answer so positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e995	It's a happy day if this is done before next year. It is such that the crews must be trained – the crews must be allowed to drive, take a GPS course, etc. when it's good weather, so that you don't drive outside and hurt yourself. So if this goes well, it's a happy day. The council says this could happen before next year. Can the Council of State guarantee that we are not in this situation next year, and that we have rules in place by Easter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1002	What I can guarantee is that this is a problem that the Minister for the Environment is concerned about. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Justice sees that there is a challenge, and we have a common interest in finding guidelines that are easy to relate to wherever you are in the country and that take into account the need to have good practice and know the terrain well. This can change from year to year, and it is important that those who do an incredibly important work in the Norwegian Mountain Home, who have saved many lives, do not endanger themselves, do not endanger others, and that they can carry out the mission they volunteer to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1007	For the first time in my time at Stortinget, I will not ask another question. I am very pleased with the answer I have received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1012	Then we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1020	Then we'll see how many questions we need in this round, but the following questions go to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Young people with disabilities have produced the report ‘Out of sight — out of mind?’. The aim of the study was to identify the needs of students with invisible diagnosis, and to what extent they get the organisation they need in their everyday study. The findings of the report are discouraging. 72 pst. by the students, they have completed or assessed the completion of the training due to difficulties with the organisation. What will the Council of State do to ensure that these students are given the necessary arrangements to complete the studies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1029	The report ‘Out of sight — out of mind?’ identifies the organisation needs in higher education for students with invisible disabilities, on which the representative is involved. The sample included in the survey is relatively limited, but I have noted – with concern – that 72 pst. of the sample of 88 people have assessed the completion of the studies due to difficulties in facilitating them. Fortunately, the study also shows that far fewer actually go to the step to do so, but that means that you have some challenges to deal with. It is an important objective that higher education in Norway should be organised in such a way that all qualified applicants, including students with different types of disability, can be admitted to and pursue a right-hand education. The implementation of higher education depends to a large extent on a well-organised and inclusive learning environment. This concept includes study arrangements, teaching, counselling and, in the case of people with disabilities, specific organisation of the learning environment. Institutions are responsible for the learning environment of students. The fact that this responsibility also applies to disabled students is clear from the Law on Higher Education. Section 4-3, fifth paragraph of the Law states: ‘The institution shall, as far as possible and reasonably practicable, facilitate the study situation for students with special needs. The organisation must not lead to a reduction in the professional requirements of the individual study.» It is therefore up to the institution to assess how studies and examination forms can be arranged for students with needs for organisation. I also want to show that all students have a statutory right to an individual education plan. Such a plan could ensure closer and more committed cooperation between the institutions and the individual student. Properly used, such a plan, together with the relevant provisions of the Law on Higher Education, should help to raise awareness among educational institutions that responsibility for the learning environment also applies to disabled students. The Ministry will follow through on various governance documents and on-the-spot management meetings how universities and colleges address learning environment challenges for students with different organisational needs. I therefore have expectations that universities and colleges will take care of the needs of disabled students for organisation, so that these students can conduct the studies in a good way. When all of this is said about the responsibility of institutions for the organisation of the disabled, we must at the same time be aware that the so-called invisible disabled are a challenging group to facilitate. Dyslexia and visual impairment are disabilities that universities and colleges are used to dealing with, while ADHD and epilepsy are diagnostics that can be more difficult to organise. The report ‘Out of sight — out of mind?’ was sent to the Ministry at the beginning of this week. I'll look into that report carefully, and I'll especially consider the findings that relate to students with invisible diagnostics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1051	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State expresses concern at what one sees in this report. There are, although there is a limited sample, clear feedback from the group concerned. I noticed that the Council of State referred to the law that says that it should be facilitated. But it's also a reservation, and it's this with a disproportionate burden, and there's an economy one of the assessments. I think it'll be important in the further work to see if some sort of compensation for costing money might be necessary – that the institutions' economy does not stop it. So I'm going to challenge the Council of State on one concrete thing, because what most people are struggling with is the deadline for the submission of assignments and the conduct of exams, also with regard to the deadline. It costs a small amount of money to disappear and can probably be solved quite quickly if the Council of State is willing to follow it up in the short term. Could that be an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1067	I thought I would invite young people with disabilities, who are behind this study, to a meeting about the findings they have included in their report, and to hear what they might have from proposals that are important to go further. I guess it's always the case that there's an argument that you can increase the appropriations for someone, but I think what we're talking about first and foremost here is a little lack of knowledge and a little lack of understanding that some students can have some challenges. It's just the invisibility of this that might also make a university management or college management less aware of this. I think we're going a long way with flexibility. Flexibility in examination and assignment is such a challenge, and knowledge of what it is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1072	Although I have received a good answer, I will use the last question for a follow-up, because it turns out that information about the offer is a major challenge. It also turns out that there are a lot of people who choose not to report their needs. It has to do with culture, and it has to do with the way we look at people with these disorders. I'm glad the Council of State says there's a lot of things that need to be taken care of here. It is a challenging group, because there are many individual issues. But we've also been away in the same situation, not least when we're talking about the aftermath after July 22nd, with psychic reactions after special events coming into the same category. I see that there are now some temporary solutions there. I hope it can also be seen for this slightly larger group, that changes are made to deadlines, study funding followed by extended study time, etc. – that the Council of State will take it with her when she will continue to work on this matter, and that perhaps the Storting will be connected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1077	It's true, as the representative Harberg says, that we now have some experience in organizing students who have been in extremely demanding situations, where there is some learning to take with them. One lesson is that there is greater room for flexibility within the regulatory framework we have, for example: in the case of examinations or home study organisation, so that – what to say – you can deal with the problem of absenteeism in a way that is different from what many schools think you can. Then we have the experience that it varies a lot. Some continue as before without any special arrangements, others have been very good and should have all the credit for it and get a lot of praise from the youth. I'm also going to take with me the experience we have now after July 22nd, and spread knowledge and make sure that we see whether there are any improvements in the ordinary offer that should be affected by the experience we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1088	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Information from the Nittedal PP service shows that practices on the provision of logo-pedal assistance to students in need of such assistance have changed and that the threshold for assistance has increased. HELFO now requires a referral from a diagnostic specialist before the application of logo assistance. That means that the students have to wait longer before they get help. What is the background to this change of practice, and does the Council of State see that this is contrary to the intention of early action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1097	Students who do not have or cannot benefit satisfactorily from the regular training offer are entitled to special education under the Training Act § 5-1. The right to special education also means the right to logoped, if this is provided for in the individual decision of the student on special education. The Health Economics Administration, HELFO, which is under the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Care, does not have decision-making powers under the Training Act and is not involved in matters relating to decisions on special education. Section 5-1 of the Training Act applies, inter alia. for students who do not receive satisfactory benefits from the training because they are unable to understand properly or are struggling with the language. If this is the case, the student is entitled to appropriate assistance and, if necessary, may also provide logo-pedal assistance. The threshold for getting such help has not increased. What is necessary shall be considered in the mandatory expert assessment. According to the Training Act, the PP service is responsible for preparing that assessment. The municipality is responsible for fulfilling the right to special education for primary school students. For students in secondary education, the county council is responsible for receiving pupils who fulfil the conditions for special education. This means that it is the municipality that is responsible for logoped in cases provided for in a single decision on special education, and the municipality cannot refer these students to HELFO. Early efforts have been ensured by the rights of the Training Act and do not depend on the social welfare system of the people's right to support the treatment of logopeds. Questions about the social security scheme, which is managed by the Directorate for Health, must be addressed to the Minister for Health and Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1108	I think this is a good example of students who seem to fall between several chairs. I hear what the council answers here, but I hear – and read – also the enquiry I have received from the municipality of Nittedal. They have not logoed themselves and must leave their own municipality to obtain that kind of competence. Doesn't the Council see that there are obviously some grey areas here, some boundaries that should perhaps have gone up more clearly in view of the auxiliary equipment that is there to ensure that you get help for the students as early as possible? It was also an important topic when we dealt with the special education message here in the house last fall. The feedback from the municipality of Nittedal is that this is a problem. But I hear the Council of State answers that it's not a problem. What are you going to do, as long as the municipality says it's a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1113	I had a wish to be so crystal clear in the answer to the representative Aspaker, precisely because the law is ready here. If there is a ambiguity around it, it is not based on the law and provisions as to what students are entitled to special education. It is then not possible to use the Health Economics Administration as a reason not to make such an offer. I believe that the law is clear in this area, and that no other excuses can be used to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1118	I hear what the Council of State answers, but I feel that the municipality is also raising a debate here as to whether there are so clear boundaries between the logo pediatric assistance based on – justified in such a special educational decision – and what you think is a treatment problem, which in that case is the responsibility of the specialist health service. The dilemma – these boundaries – is also important to be discussed and followed up, as I was faced with in my first follow-up question. Are there such clear boundaries between what belongs to the special education section and what belongs to the special health service section, as expressed here by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1123	Yeah, I mean it. For students at school, whether in primary or secondary school, Section 5-1 of the Training Act applies. The social security scheme managed by the Directorate of Health, where decisions are taken by the Administration of the Health Economics, applies only if other public bodies do not provide benefits under other laws. It follows from § 5-10, Section 10 of the Code. In other words, that social security scheme is secondary to the responsibility of municipalities and counties for special education under the Training Act. This means that it is only if the students do not require logo-pedal help as special instruction under the Training Act that the case is to be sent to HELFO for assessment. This means that in practice, students will first apply for a training offer under the Training Act. For users who are not considered eligible for special education, this is the next step. But if you have the right to special education, you have the right to logoped.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1134	‘A new quality assurance report now states that the net value of City Ship’s Tunnel is greater than that achieved by the Coastal Station in its report — more in line with the SINTEF report, which showed significant societal benefits. Will the Council of State make the necessary planning resources available in the revised State budget and thus carry out the planning work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1141	As the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve refers to, we received the Quality Assurance Report just before Easter on the Coastal Authority's concept selection investigation on the City of the Ship Tunnel. I am very pleased that we have now received this report. It provides a good professional basis for the assessments to be made by the government before the matter is brought before the Stortinget. It means that we can keep the timetable outlined by the government in the national transport plan. The transport plan refers to a possible start in the last half of the 2010–2019 planning period, if we decide to proceed with the project. We will now carry out a thorough review of the quality assurance report. In that review we will look at all the elements that matter to the matter. This also applies to the socio-economic assessments to which the representative Røbekk Nørve refers. When we finish that review, the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a proposal on the further follow-up of the City Ship Tunnel. As I have already mentioned, we are in line with the timetable outlined by the government in the national transport plan. We will also follow that timetable in the further work before the matter is brought before Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1150	There is a cross-political agreement to move goods from road to sea. The right believes that the City Tunnel will be the key to strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport. The tunnel will deliver significant environmental and safety gains and significant time savings for maritime transport. These are important measures that must be taken if we are to move goods from road to sea. City ship tunnel will improve the transport capacity of export-oriented business along the coast and reduce the heavy traffic that is currently thundering through Oslo on its way to the continent. In the past, the right has proposed to finance and organise City Ship Tunnel as an OPS project – if the Council of State gathers all the good forces along the coast and builds City Ship Tunnel as a public-private cooperation project, and tends to require, given that there are now good grounds for building.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1157	When it comes to getting more goods from the road to the refrigerator, there is a work that I have focused a lot on and intensified, in this process of a short-distance shipping strategy in which all the actors are involved, and then in recognizing that there are not necessarily decisions either in this room or in the government that ultimately lead to the job being done. Everyone has to move in the right direction and contribute in their areas. This applies not least to shipping companies, freight owners and coastal operators. We have to make arrangements for the coast to become choice No. 1st@item: inlistbox When it comes to the question of possible financing of the City Ship Tunnel, I think we have to be honest and admit that we have to do it with government money. An OPS cooperation is also nothing but a cover-up. In this way, the government has the funds to finance; we don't have to borrow the money if we choose to carry out this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1164	There have now been 18 investigations, and I am very pleased that the Council of State says that it is the coast that becomes choice No. 1, and that it is about getting transport from road to sea. The last report seems to me to be very interesting, because it concludes that the project has more socio-economic profitability than previously assumed, searing if one has not been cost-calculated for all the cost-benefit effects. One of several effects for which no positive benefit has been estimated is the important factor in increasing safety. The people along the coast want safe communities, and the City Tunnel will undoubtedly make the sea journey much safer. It will also help make our roads much safer than they are today. How seriously will the Council of State emphasise the factor of increased security in the decision-making process towards the government's decision on the future of the City Tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1175	I fully agree with the representative Røbekk Nørve that moving freight from road to sea will certainly contribute to road safety. It will contribute to very much positive; there, I think, we agree completely. In terms of the profitability calculations referred to in the report, we will go through them thoroughly. It turns out, as the representative says, that there are no figures on the increased security either for – let's say – relatives or for those on board. It's not numerically fixed. But it's numerically fixed what we need to do to get out with a profitable project. That's a lot of millions. As I said, we are now reviewing the report – we will go through it thoroughly – and we will come back to Stortinget according to the timetable we have set for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1188	It might look like this question is similar to the previous one, but I'll come back to that it's not equivalent. I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The 18th investigation/report related to whether or not to realise the construction of the City Ship Tunnel is now available. This report, which is a follow-up to the Coastal Authority's previous report with a negative recommendation, shows that this project has a significantly more positive socio-economic impact than previously claimed. Several of the red-green representatives from More and Romesdal have in the media suggested that the project now needs to be realised. Does the State Council agree that the project must now be realised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1199	Before I answer the question from the representative Harald T. Nesvik, I would like to point out that this government considers it important that we now have a full review of the project, where all the essential questions have been addressed. It has been better to get answers to these questions now than we had to take a step back at a later stage in order to make new investigations, which in turn could have created difficulties in keeping with the timetable outlined by the government in the national transport plan. Then I have to comment on the comment of the representative Nesvik that 18 reports have now been prepared on the City Tunnel. If you sum up all the sub-inventions that have been made about City since 1989, it's right that you get a figure of about 18. This also includes investigations conducted and ordered by actors other than the country. From the state level, a pilot project was developed in 2001. This is what is now known as ‘the small tunnel option’. Following the initiative of the rapporteurs, among others: Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal were then reinvestigated in view of the expanded size of a ship's tunnel, so that the fast route could also pass through the tunnel. This led to the Coastal Agency’s investigation from the turn of the year 2010/2011, which has now been through quality assurance. Of the approx. So 18 of the investigations that have been carried out are really just two investigations that are going to go through the whole project under state control. The rest are partial investigations and additional investigations. At the same time, several of the interim studies have been included in the main studies of the Coastal Plant. The last report, which we received just before Easter, is the external quality assurance of the Coastal Authority's concept selection investigation from the 2010/2011 turn of the year. We are now working on a review of this report. I will therefore not go into individual questions or draw any conclusions at this stage. When we finish this review, the government will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a proposal on the further follow-up of the City Ship Tunnel, in line with what I have previously said from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1212	My question is not about 18 public investigations. It's just 18 investigations, so what's shown in the signed questions is probably correct. The big question is how much time you actually need to make a decision, and how many investigations and counter-inventions you need. In the national transport plan, to which the Council of State itself has referred, it is a nine-year aspect of the decision-making process. Nine years will come to a considerable cost-effective and not least time for those who will benefit greatly from this tunnel. That's why I'm asking the Council of State: Does the Council of State mean the same thing as the representatives of Storing Else-May Botten, Svein Gichlseth, Tove-Lise Torve and others from the red-green parties, who were out in the media and told me that the tunnel must now be realized? Do the state councils agree with their own deposit representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1221	The representative of Nesvik is right – and I have not claimed – that the 18 reports were public. I just needed to get the facts out, because that number is being used/abused in some contexts. I'm not saying that it was done here, but that it was only necessary to find out that the state reports and state investigations have not been so extensive, although it might be said that they have been extensive enough as well. At the same time, it must be said that this is also a new crime. Very familiar are probably not built ship tunnels around the world. Then it goes without saying that then you have to do a thorough job. I also reserve the right to do that, and I do the thorough work before submitting a case to Stortinget. So I notice of course the commitment. What was common denominator for all the red-green politicians who were mentioned here is, of course, that they come from this area and have a local commitment, which I understand very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1230	City ship tunnel is not a project for just the local politicians. It's important to the whole coast. This is about safety, it is about tourism, it is about business, and it is about transport policy, as we have heard before, by getting more transport from road to sea – that is, a good environmental project. So there are a lot of positive effects of this, and when, in addition to this report, which has been produced correctly by Holte Consulting and Econ Pöyry – but not on behalf of the public – shows a great positive impact socio-economically, much larger than the Coastal Agency provided. But I'll challenge the council again. The period included in the national transport plan is a period of nine years. I expect that the Council of State, which is known to be an effective Council of State, does not need to spend nine years in this work. Can the Council of State at least promise that a decision will be taken within a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1237	I thank you for the reputation. I'm probably a politician who wants to make progress in what I'm doing. I'm a little impatient, but at the same time I respect that there are some things that are more demanding than others. I will not claim that this is the most demanding matter I have, but it is at least a matter of a category that requires proper and proper preparation. As I said, I got this report just before Easter, and I actually used the Easter to read it. We are not going to spend an unnecessary amount of time presenting a case to the Stortinget. We have to keep what has been said in the national transport plan. What it says is at the end of 2009 – sorry, now it's getting in the way of the dates. We're going to keep what's in the national transport plan, and I'm going to file a case for the Storting in good time, so we're still going to be able to keep that time frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1266	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1273	First of all, I want to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the job, and not least on her debut in the Question Time today, which I hope will go well. The question of the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is, in fact, reasonably simple: ‘Many hundreds of fathers have lost their rights to take out a family allowance because Nav has created legislation that is difficult to implement for parents, and the ministry has not been able to change the legislation once the consequences have gone up to them. I have requested several times a simpler regulation based on the freedom of choice within the 3-year rule. This will make it easy for families and easy for Nav. Will the Council of State change the legislation before the summer, or is the right-wing proposal preferred in the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1282	Let me start by saying that it is very nice to meet the representative Kambe in this way. We met before in the Finance Committee. I would also like to thank you for your congratulations. I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Kambe, for his commitment to this matter, because it is an important matter. That is what the representative refers to, that some fathers have been refused an application for withdrawal of the parental quota because they have applied for a postponement too late. The representative, Mr Kambe, wants a simpler regulation and that the parental carers can be removed freely before the child reaches the age of three. The law in force provides for the continuous running of the period of benefits in respect of parental leave. This means that if a father does not take out his part of the parental leave immediately after the mother has ceased to take out his parental leave, his parental leave days shall be permanently lost, unless he has applied in advance for deferral and documented the existence of the conditions for deferral. The Ministry cooperates closely with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to ensure that fathers do not lose their right to a family allowance because of Nav's procedural arrangements. Several meetings have been held on this matter and the Ministry has provided guidance on the most flexible handling of these matters in the current legislation. On this basis, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has opened up the possibility of a re-evaluation of the refusal. The establishment has changed the procedures, so that fathers now get information directly to themselves and not through letters to their mother. The ETA has also implemented various information measures and is working to further improve parental information, which is a clear need. The information has been partly unclear, difficult to access, and so, as I said, it has been addressed to mother. I think maybe some fathers in that way have thought of themselves a little bit as an attachment to their wife or roommates. It's not lucky either. I think it was already the first day of work that I was made aware of this matter via social media, and I also asked for a statement from the department about where the matter was. It turned out that the department was very aware of this problem. So after one week at work, I had a meeting with Joakim Lystad, who is the Director of the Employment and Welfare Directorate, and we have agreed that we need to address aspects of the practice that are not working properly. Let me make it clear in the end: I want fathers to have time with their children, and not least that children will have time with their fathers. That's good for the children, for the country's fathers and for the equality, and it's often also a good investment in the family's future life. I'm going to follow up to make sure that the directorate is taking the necessary steps to remedy this situation. The representative, Mr Kambe, can in this way be sure that the department will follow up. I therefore see no need for a separate Right-wing proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1299	We may get back to that, because it is still necessary, despite the good work done by the ministry. I have read some of the letters sent by the department to Nav, and I have read some letters from Nav to the department. I have also seen some guidelines that I did not find on any date, but that there is reason to believe is of relatively new date. What is my challenge to the Council of State is: Is she willing to make the legislation simpler, so that Nav does not spend so much work on dealing with a right that the parents have, so that the parents avoid the uncertainty about the 3-year rule, which I have asked for? I could imagine an answer to that. In addition, many of these fathers have already completed their complaint, either at the Nav Board of Appeal, and thus submitted, or actually taken the case to the Social Security Court and lost, despite the fact that the Council of State now hopefully opens up new practices. Will the Council also consider whether this can have retroactive effect, so that they can either get their money back or their days back?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1310	In order to take the first step, the answer is a clear yes to the question of whether the department takes care of the needs and opportunities for regulatory simplification. This is something that the ministry is working on, and you can imagine different variants of it. But the intention on our part, and our clear desire, is to get a simplified set of rules, so that we don't get into this kind of situation. There are different people working in Nav, and there are a lot of people. It's a great room for understanding, but we want it to be clearer what we want to achieve. What we want to achieve is that fathers should have the opportunity to be with their children, and it is an overall goal for better contact between fathers and children. With regard to the decisions that have already been made, I cannot comment on them at this stage. It's also part of the dialogue with the directorate, which we'll get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1317	I am still not reassured, because this problem has arisen for hundreds of families, who are now charging the social security system. They burden their own private economy with legal expenses and uncertainty. I could imagine that the Council of State clearly cut through and said that this should be dealt with by Nav for those who have lost their rights in the Social Security Court, and who obviously have a right to paperwork. So the question is, does the Council of State think this is an acceptable reaction if you forget to tick a form to be with your children – because life changes along the way, or because of Easter holidays and summer holidays, so you don't take the leave continuously? Can the councils live on the fact that the rules are such as to forget it, do you lose your paperwork?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1324	No, no, no. We have been very clear that we want the regulatory framework to be flexible. This means that if you have forgotten to submit your own form, where you specify that you want a deferral, and you fulfil the conditions for it and send it by the necessary documentation, but it still appears from the application to Nav that you want to withdraw your part of the leave period, we believe that it will be enough for you to obtain the leave. We believe that the legislation has been practised in part by the square, we want it to be more flexible, and we are also clear about that to the directorate. Then we are now in a dialogue on what further measures are to be taken to ensure that these fathers get the right that the ministry is so dedicated to them, and then I come back to the very concrete answers to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1342	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. As a result, case 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-18.ana.ud1020e1357	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
