ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e26	The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Thor Lillehovde, has now taken the seat. The representative, Mr Dagfinn Højbråten, submitted an application for leave on 18 and 19 January to attend a conference in Barcelona as Chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e49	Kjell Arvid Svendsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e61	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Sigbjørn Johnsen, Tora Aasland and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e68	There is a significant degree of economic turmoil around the world. In Stortinget we have a discussion about who is financially responsible. I would say that all the parties are, even though we have a different view of what the Norwegian economy is capable of. However, it is important in that debate that we, as big people, although we may disagree on parts of Norwegian economic policy, are well prepared for the situation that can also affect Norway. We woke up today to the news that the World Bank has downgraded the estimates for economic growth in the coming years. Yesterday, a reading in the Financial Newspaper that Standard & Poor’s has downgraded all EU countries except Germany in terms of credit ratings, and the prospects for further downgrading are stronger than the prospects for turning it around. That's why most warning lights light up. In Norway, parts of the Norwegian economy are doing very well. My bad voice today is because yesterday I was at a meeting in the oil industry, and there is a great deal of cheering both because they are doing great things and because we have finally received an energy minister who is leading the energy policy of the Progress Party. But other parts of Norwegian business see dark clouds. The Minister of Finance has said many times that this government is following the situation closely and is waiting for action if the need arises. A week ago, I asked a written question to learn a little about what kind of measures the government is thinking of. Could a list be made, so that we knew what preparations were made? That list contained zero measures. It worries me, based on the 2008 experience. Then one also came with measures, but there were measures that have made one more public employees and fewer private employees in the labour market. It is not the kind of economic recession that I think is a responsible economic approach. So my question now, with a larger audience, is: What are the measures that the Minister of Finance sees Norway as contributing to preventing an economic... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e79	I agree with Mr Solvik-Olsen that there is a difficult and demanding situation out there, especially in Europe. It is a mixture of both good news – so far – and bad news. The good news is that both Spain and Italy have experienced a significant fall in interest rates on their new loans that they have raised. Freedom goes down in Germany. The bad news is particularly related to the downgrading of several European countries in terms of creditworthiness, and not least the serious situation that remains in Portugal and, in particular, Greece. New estimates for growth in the euro area in Europe suggest that growth in 2012 is falling below that previously observed. It will affect the Norwegian economy in many ways, and – as I have said before – it will also have an impact on Norwegian growth in 2012. So we have to assume that growth can be slightly lower than previously assumed. The first line defence in the troubled situation has turned on. The Norwegian Bank lowered the interest rate just before Christmas. It is an action that both looks ahead and takes into account the fact that lower growth is now taking place in Europe. The State budget for 2012 is there. It is a budget that was well adapted to the situation that was when we presented it in October. In addition, the government follows the situation closely, we have a good overview of the situation. What kind of measures it might be appropriate to put in place will depend on the situation there and there, but I can assure the representative of Solvik-Olsen and others in Stortinget that if things go from bad to worse, the government is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e90	It doesn't help much to be ready, if you don't know exactly where to go. It gives a false security when one says one follows closely, when one says that the budget that we now have was well adapted to the situation in October. The paradox is that there were many new warnings after the budget was presented, but the government and the majority of the government made no changes to adapt the budget to the situation in December when the budget was actually adopted. One had three months, one did not use the chance. The action space in the Norwegian economy is significant. In 2011, we had a surplus in the budget of 370 billion. kr, in the current year 345 billion. kr. We are in a completely different situation than all the other countries that are creating these concerns for us. Here is the question: how are we going to make use of that space of action to make sensible investments in Norway, which should be counter-cyclical, of course – time-limited investments that the country needs anyway – instead of what we saw in 2008, that a public sector is blowing up through persistent expenditure? What measures does the government specifically intend to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e97	First a few minor corrections to the representative of Solvik-Olsen. It is true that the number of persons employed in the private sector decreased after the financial crisis in 2008. It happened in Norway, it happened in other countries. At the same time, however, the measures taken by one, particularly those adopted in 2009, were properly targeted at the public sector, but they were carried out by private individuals. So it was private carpenters who put in new ventilation systems and new glass, it was private contractors who put new asphalt around in Norway. From the third quarter of 2010 to the third quarter of 2011, employment has increased by a total of 50 000 persons – 28 000 in the private sector and 22 000 in the public sector. So the image that is being tested by one here has created a lasting imbalance in Norwegian working life is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e106	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e109	The Council of State has said on several occasions that our economic policy is irresponsible, and that if our budget had been adopted, we would have ended up in Greek conditions. We proposed a Now it turns out that the 2011 tax intake is 45 billion. kr more than the government proposed, i.e. that if our policy, as the Council of State calls irresponsible, had been implemented, we would have taken 25 billion. kr more than otherwise. We have a screaming need for road construction in this country. The council itself says that the warning lamp is on and that the growth is down. My question then is: with the strong needs for road investment, will the Council of State take the initiative to increase investment in the road sector in Norway drastically in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e116	It is now the case that in 2012 road appropriations and investment in infrastructure are increasing significantly. This government has invested much more heavily in infrastructure development than any government in the past. Projects under way, which will be launched in 2012, will be financed by increased appropriations in 2012. Then I would like to say that in terms of the increased revenue in the government budget in 2011, there are partly increased tax revenues from business and partly increased oil revenues, and there is a slight reduction in expenditure. What would be irresponsible is if, after the fluctuations in oil revenue, a overthrown Norwegian economy – it is the cloud itself with the rule of action that a separates the use of oil revenues from current oil revenues. What would we do in 2008 if we were to follow that recipe? Well, then we must have cut the budget by 115 billion. kr, with oil revenue falling in 2008. The rule of action is good and predictable, and it is good for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e125	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e128	There is no doubt that the Norwegian economy is on the green side for the time being, and the red-green government has an amazing freedom of action that the oil has given us. What was the main issue of the questioner was priorities. We've been through the NHO Annual Conference. Substantial differences were presented in the development of public and private employees, both in relation to the Bondevik II government and post-crisis developments in 2001–2002 and in relation to Sweden. It's a fact. Norway has a prominent priority of building capacity in the public sector rather than in private. It should worry the Council of State, which is also concerned about the two-part Norway, that we are not able to prioritise investment in competitiveness and the development of Norway for the future. What action will the Council of State take to avoid overfocusing our public sector in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e136	At first I think it's important to look at where the growth in the public sector has come. It's in kindergartens, it's in education, it's in health care, and it's in the police. There are four different areas which have seen strong growth in employment in recent years. I have noticed that there are measures and investments that have been widely agreed – and on which there is a broad consensus – in the Stortinget. It is natural that there is growth in the public sector within the priority areas. Looking at the whole period from 2000 to 2011, there has been a strong growth in employment in Norway. The main emphasis has come in the private sector – it is point. 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraph. 2: The more mentioned tax revenues in 2011 show that there is a very strong competitiveness in Norwegian business and a strong productive capacity. Indeed, it is the tax revenue generated by enterprises that has increased sharply in 2011. Taking care of that development becomes an important task for the government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e143	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e146	In the framework of which public posts have increased, I think the Council of State forgot a group. There's the number of bureaucrats in Health-Norway, with a higher salary. I think he can also take them with him in the number of government employees who have increased a lot lately. My question is something the Minister of Finance answered, namely that the rule of action is very good for the Norwegian economy. The crisis in Europe also means that the yield of the oil fund may need to be reduced. Let's imagine that we're going to use approx. 4 pst. the annual return on investment into the State budget. My question – and that is a very fundamental question – is: In the light of developments in Europe, is there a basis for looking at the mechanism of the action rule itself and how much should be assumed to be used in annual budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e153	It is true that more have been employed in public administrative and administrative tasks, but the majority of the new jobs that have come into the public sector go to service production in important areas. Then the representative Syversen has a very important point in relation to the 4-percentile and the rule of action. There are two answers to that. First of all, we don't have any plans to downgrade what you can use every year. I think it's important that it's fixed over time, and that adjusting the 4-percentile line or another percentage line as the economic cycle goes out will create uncertainty and unforeseeability about the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, it is unusually important that a person, for example: in a year that in 2011 uses the extra income a sheep generates reserves in the economy, and when you look at the result for 2011, a significant fall in the 4-percentile range. It happens that you have to build up reserves in good times that you can use in times where things get a little worse, for example. in 2012, or other years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e162	Borghild Tenden - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e165	In the extension of the representative of Syversen and others, the action space is large in the Norwegian economy and perhaps larger than any previous government has been allowed to dispose of. At the NHO Annual Conference, Professor Hilde C. Bjørnland showed some interesting figures that illustrate that we are using oil money as never before, and that over the past four years, we have been spending significantly more on mainland GDP. In the past, the left has suggested that it might be reasonable to have an additional dimension to the flexible but nevertheless slavish 4 pst. understanding, namely that the use of oil money should also be linked to the maximum share of mainland GDP, e.g. 4 pst. also here – a point that was also addressed by the Seven. Is this something the Minister of Finance will assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e172	With regard to developments over the last four years, one has to take into account the fact that in 2009 and 2010, in particular 2009, a large amount of money was spent to slow down and counteract the impact of the financial crisis. Then one has been significantly below the 2011 rule of action, and on the basis of the figures we provided in the context of the national budget, we will also be able to be below in 2012. It's kind of in line with the rule of action. Then the representative Tende has a rather important point in that one should also shift to the growth of GDP in mainland Norway. It says something over time how much growth you have in mainland Norway, because we know that over time, even with the new findings we have now seen, oil revenue as a share of GDP will fall. So it's important in defining the policy in the future to keep an eye on the evolution of the GDP of mainland Norway. But I think the rule of action and the 4 pst. course have served us well, and we should stick to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e177	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e180	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance. As the Minister of Finance knows, the Right is occupied by a simpler Norway for all the inhabitants, and many today need lawyers and accountants to pay proper taxes and taxes. The inheritance fee is a good example of that. Many resource-intensive people in Norway are currently using lawyers and accountants to ensure the lowest possible inheritance tax base, because they know about the crooked grips that not all people know about. That might not be so strange, because the government is currently spending 50 million dollars. to hire bureaucrats who are only responsible for collecting inheritance fees from the population. On the right, these bureaucrats believe that they could have been released for a completely different task, because the right knows that the inheritance fee means a lot to those affected, but very little to the state. The large increase in the value of the dwelling and property has made the inheritance fee more expensive to pay for very many. Cabin properties that were like to be built just before the war, at moderate prices, cost a lot today, and for ordinary people to have a cabin by the sea or in the mountains, inheritance is often the only possibility. But not everyone can afford to take over. The result is that childhood homes and family cabins are offered for sale, because ordinary people cannot afford to pay inheritance fees on top of the other. Children's memories of bathing, crab fishing in the archipelago and skiing in the mountains right from the cottage are taken away from very many people, for suddenly you pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to the government for a cabin that the family has always disposed of. The inheritance fee is unfair and the right will remove the entire inheritance fee. Does the Government see that the government has created a system that gives benefits to those who have the most resources in the country, in view of using lawyers and auditors to plan an inheritance settlement as far as possible in time to get the lowest possible rate, while it would have been simpler and more fair for everyone to remove a tax and a fee that is very few... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e189	I think we can quickly agree that it is important to do what you can to get a simpler Norway in many areas. The government is working on it, especially in a work between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and other interesting and involved departments, and we aim at gradually presenting proposals to simplify both individuals and not least businesses. The implementation of a slightly lower audit obligation, to put it that way, is an action in view of the need and importance of dealing with simplification issues. Then I would also say that in international contexts there are, for example, the Norwegian tax system is good in terms of simplicity and its application, for example. industry less resource use on the tax system than in many other countries. On the other hand, other aspects of the tax system are more complex, such as the VAT system. is complicated, and it's important to have a awake eye all the way. In the case of the inheritance tax, this government made changes to the inheritance tax by reducing the inheritance-related rate in a straight-down row, while at the same time increasing the bottom-up significantly, to what it is today, NOK 470 000 for each parent in the case of inheritance. These are examples of the fact that we also believe that the inheritance tax is a challenge. At the same time, the inheritance tax contributes both to the income of the community and to the distribution policy. However, inheritance tax, like other parts of the tax system, is assessed on an ongoing basis, and any proposals are made in connection with the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e198	It's quite ironic that at a time when the country is screaming for labour, for productivity, the state is spending 50 million. to hire bureaucrats to ensure the collection of a fee that has a limited impact on the country but has a significant impact on the families concerned. If you have a married couple where the husband is a nurse and the wife is a teacher, which very often is the case in such a situation, and they have house, car, two study loans, children in kindergarten and SFO, they have quite a lot of costs. When you get the opportunity to inherit a land that's probably had several generations in the family, there's a lot of people who lose that opportunity, no matter what the bottom line is. For this, too much is being done in addition to property taxes, property taxes, increased equivalency of cabins, as introduced by the Minister of Finance, and cab tax, as introduced by the Minister of Finance. Yeah, the total makes it just the most resource-efficient people who can afford to take over, and when you've created a system where the most resource-intensive people can afford to pay lawyers and accountants, it gets worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e204	There is no secret that there is disagreement between the Right and the Labour Party and the Red-Green Government in parts of tax policy. It concerns both the nature and level of taxes to be levied. You have to live with that. That is in a way the way politics is. As I had in my previous answer, the government has also realized that there are certain challenges with the inheritance fee. That was the background to the changes proposed by the government that were adopted at Stortinget. At the same time, however, one must also bear in mind that inheritance taxes and other taxes are important for obtaining income for important Community tasks in many areas. This government is so screwed up and so is the thinking that we look at the effects of the tax system on different areas. It also means that the inheritance tax is part of the overall assessment made by the government when it makes a tax bill for the financial year to come, and we are about to take up the 2013 budget year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e213	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e216	After all, the tax package has been debated many times, because the inheritance fee is, after all, only 2-3 pst. of the previously mentioned tax tree, which we have discussed earlier. The Minister of Finance is competent to avoid mentioning that when the bottom line was raised, they tightened up against those who own businesses and the ownership that actually bears employment in Norway. It is estimated that we are facing a generational shift in an estimated 120 000 enterprises in Norway over the next seven to eight years, and the inheritance tax is a significant obstacle to good transfers of skills, activity and employment. In the light of the TV2 debate and the focus on national ownership, why does the government punish the locally anchored ownership, which I dare say there are no alternatives to promoting employment in much of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e225	The right has gradually resorted to a rhetoric in which they use adjectives and other to sharpen the argument. Penalty is such an expression. This government is engaged in national ownership. This government is concerned that we should have good owners in Norwegian companies. One might well deduct a tax, whether it's property tax or inheritance tax, but what's important about the climate in order to run and own businesses in Norway is that one looks at the whole, and there are many other things that can go in the other direction. As I said before, this government will both have an alert eye on the need to stimulate national ownership and an alert eye on the different outcomes that one can see from the tax system. But I think it's going to be difficult to satisfy the demands that the Right will make on this, because they have a slightly different view of taxes and taxes than the government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e234	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e237	I think the finance minister today is very good at answering everything other than what he is being asked for. It's e.g. a degression of insignificant dimensions to start talking about taxes on wealth and punishment. The rhetoric is quite obvious: when Norwegian owners have a tax that non-resident owners in Norway do not have, there is a penalty for Norwegian owners. It's just like that. In the case of inheritance fees, the Progress Party has a very clear position: it has to go away. It prevents the easy transfer of values between generations of enterprises. It is also often a disadvantage when you are going to have an inheritance settlement on a cabin, house and other, where the family would not be able to keep the family property because of, among other things. the inheritance fee. What's most special about the debate that has emerged now, is that the government has always said that one should pay his taxes with joy. So one sees that central members of the government are conducting extensive tax planning. Is such tax planning by government members an expression of one paying his taxes with joy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e246	Item No One: I want to distance myself from what Solvik-Olsen said in the end, because the undertone of what he says is that he means something else. But enough about it. In the case of property taxes, I understand that both the Advance Party and the Right use it in their rhetoric, but then one could, for example, use it. to say that there are other parts of the conditions under which businesses operate in Norway, which are a reward, for example: other types of taxes and taxes lower in Norway than those seen in other countries. So these are a little bit of eyes that look. I hold fast to what I said in my main reply, and it is obvious that the government is concerned about how taxes and taxes work both on behavior, ownership and other things, and that is an important part of the assessments that the government makes when presenting its concrete proposals for taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e255	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e258	On Monday I was visiting the family-run company Oss-nor in Kristiansund, and one of the most important issues they raised with me was the inheritance fee. In line with the NHO, the positive to the Christian People's Party's inheritance tax model is also. The Christian People's Party proposes that the payment of the inheritance fee be postponed for 10 years, with a reduction of one tenth each year. This means that there will be no inheritance tax if the company is still in operation after 10 years. That's how the family-run businesses will have it, the NHO have it and the Christian People's Party will have it. It is a good industrial policy, a good social economy and a good rural policy. What is the Council's response to exactly these family-owned companies that are today being forced to sell or raise large loans to keep the company in their family?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e267	As I have said in answer to the previous questions, I see that there may be single companies and single transfers where there are challenges in terms of generation change and succession in enterprises. There are questions that you should look at, and you should be willing to discuss whether there are opportunities here that can make the type of change of ownership easier. While good proposals will of course be considered, it is also important to maintain that inheritance taxes, property taxes and other taxes have two other important objectives: one is to provide the community with sufficient income, and the other is to build up under a sensible and good distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e274	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e278	As mentioned earlier, there are many resource forces who have the opportunity to plan out inheritance taxes, but sudden deaths, accidents and such, do not have the opportunity to adapt, and for family-run businesses, it is not possible to plan — something that has also been the subject here today. As the Left sees it, today's inheritance fee is arbitrary and hits randomly and often unfairly. As the Left sees it, this can be solved in two ways: either by tightening up the adjustment options or by removing the inheritance fee altogether - the left will last. Which of the two options prefers the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e287	As I have also said before, this government did some work on the inheritance fee, assuming that one so there were challenges to it when it came to inheritance between close relatives. But to remove the inheritance fee, I think it is not current, and if you look around in other countries, it is not that the inheritance fee is a strange fee. It is a fee you can also find in other countries. So having a reasonable inheritance tax I think is an important part of a comprehensive tax policy. As I said, this question is also an issue you have to consider, and should be considered, because I see that it creates challenges, but it's always about trying to find the right grips – if you're going to do something at all. But that is the kind of question that you have to consider in relation to the annual tax arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e294	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e297	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance. We have had an emerging debate on Norway’s relationship with Europe – the EEA Agreement, EU membership and how we are affected by this in our country. There is no doubt that the only realistic alternative to the current EEA agreement would be EU membership. That would mean, for example, that we had to have a completely different policy for both fish and agriculture. But we obviously have many in the government who run fictional cooperation models between Norway and the EU, whether it's called trade agreements or bilateral agreements or anything else. Some particular realism is not above it at least two out of three government parties perform to say in this debate. Not enough with that: one of the government’s leaders, Liv Signe Navarsete, got over a couple of columns in the evening post yesterday to say that the Norwegian people have been ‘stupid’, the Norwegian people have been ‘carried behind the light’, and the dog is buried in, among other things. The working party. My question is – these are quite serious allegations: Is it the government’s view that the Norwegian people are ‘stupid’ and ‘represented’ as regards the importance of the EEA Agreement for Norwegian industry, Norwegian employment and Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e306	The President has to comment that the question may not just be addressed to the Council of State Johnsen, who is responsible for fiscal policy. However, part of the EEA Agreement also applies to fiscal policy, and the Minister of Finance can of course answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e309	The EEA Agreement is an important agreement for Norway. In my view, there is no doubt that it has helped us to achieve good results in the Norwegian economy – and in Norway – in the years since 1994. As far as the government is concerned, the platform on which the government is based with regard to the more central foreign policy issues is work through the UN, it is NATO membership, it is the EEA Agreement, and it is also the fact that Norway said no to EU membership in 1994. That's what's at the bottom of government policy. Then it is that EEA Agreement is comprehensive. We knew that when it was adopted at Stortinget – it must have been in 1993 once – by a three-quarters majority. As far as I remember, there were 35 representatives who voted against. The majority knew at the time that it was the most comprehensive agreement Norway had ever concluded. Since 1994, the agreement has become more comprehensive. It affects many policy areas. We also knew that when it was adopted in Stortinget. The assumption has always been that there should be a dynamic agreement. Aggravating governments since 1994 have ruled on it, and the Stortinget has also taken decisions on laws and regulations under changing governments. So my view is: yes, the agreement has become more extensive, the agreement is more dynamic, there has been a strong development in Europe, but this is what we knew would happen when the agreement was adopted at the time in Stortinget. That is at least the basis on which I base my view of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e320	As many times as the Council of State said ‘we knew’, it must mean that there is no basis — from the finance minister’s point of view — to say that we are ‘stupid’ or ‘carried behind the light’, since we were ‘certain’ as much as the Council of State now referred to. My question will then – I am fully aware that the Minister of Finance will not answer for the entire EEA Agreement – to sharpen it in the area of responsibility of the Council of State: Is there any doubt that the EEA Agreement has been very important for Norwegian industry, Norwegian jobs and Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e327	As far as the EEA Agreement is concerned, a comprehensive report was submitted yesterday. It is now being consulted, and it will also form the basis for a wide-ranging debate on the EEA Agreement and developments in Norway, both inside and outside, after the government has promoted a communication in the light of that work. Then it's important to go back to the starting point of the EEA Agreement. It was that one so that there would be closer integration in Europe. The trade agreement on which our relationship was based was not enough. It was necessary to have an agreement that ensures Norwegian enterprises – except in some areas, as we all know – as much as possible a level playing field and good access to this European market. In my view – and I have been at the beginning of the EEA agreement – this agreement has contributed to a good and very positive development in the Norwegian economy. The fact that Norwegian companies have predictable framework conditions is important for Norwegian companies and the development of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e336	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e339	The position of the SV and the Central Party on the EEA Agreement is based on one premise, and it is easy to cancel the EEA Agreement, and it is easy to put in place new trade agreements that will give us full market access and more influence. I am pleased that the Council of State confirms that this idea is an airlock, in order to achieve all the benefits of full access to the internal market, a number of demanding adjustments must be accepted. It applies to the EEA Agreement, it also applies to EU membership, and it also applies to a relationship based on an innumerable bilateral trade agreements, such as: is the case with Switzerland. The Christian People's Party believes that a rather need to discuss the space for action and possibly more use of the veto instead of discussing the EEA. What does the Minister of Finance think would be the consequences for Norwegian jobs if the government were to follow the great desire of the SV and the Central Party, namely to terminate the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e348	Just to complete the answer to the representative Syversen: it is my view that Norwegian companies have predictable framework conditions, that we compete on equal terms, is unusually important. Nor should we forget that about two thirds of exports from mainland Norway go to the European market, so there is no doubt about the importance of the agreement. It is true, as the representative says, that even Switzerland, which is not a member of the EEA territory, as far as I know, has 120 different agreements, many of which are similar to parts of the EEA Agreement. So the option to EEA is also quite complicated to think about now. That is why, once again, I refer to what is the government's platform, that it is based on the EEA Agreement, and it is based on Norway's refusal to the EU in 1994. But at the same time, it is also important to keep an eye on what is happening in the EU. For this reason, we also see on various occasions that Norway has a strong view of this and will veto certain directives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e356	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e359	It is clear that the EEA Agreement is important precisely in order to have predictability and the possibility of thinking on a long-term basis in economic policy as well. The investigation presented yesterday is precisely in Chapter 14, economics and business, about what has to do with the consequences of this for Norwegian companies. In this context, it appears that the EEA Agreement has just had a very positive impact on Norwegian industry. But it is quite clear that there are also some challenges to the agreement. The Council of State itself has just been in Brussels, as far as I have understood, discussing one of those things, among others. the deposit guarantee. As early as the Nations on 25 November 2008, it was well, then Minister of Finance Halvorsen said that she would fight against the deposit guarantee. This fight has continued since. Can the Council of State say a little about where this matter now stands, because this is very important for depositors in Norwegian banks?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e368	Now we are waiting for the broad discussion to take place on the basis of the report presented yesterday, but as an advocacy, there may also be grounds for recalling what happened in 2004, when the Stortinge dealt with the enlargement of the EU area. At the final vote in Stortinget, only the party's one representative voted against, but it was after a separate proposal from SV and the centre party had fallen. With regard to the deposit guarantee scheme, it's true that we've been on the track from the first second, and that's an example of us addressing important issues that are important to Norway. There is no automation in incorporating things into Norwegian legislation, and the deposit guarantee scheme is an example of that. It's not yet settled. Last week I had a meeting with my French colleague. As an old long run, I'm going to measure, and at least I don't give up until the interview. Probably this matter will now be decided by the Danish Presidency during this six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e375	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e378	When we believe that the EEA Agreement is important – so does the Right – it is important to get involved early with the EU/EEA on new directives, and that is the responsibility of the government. The export finance case, which went around the turn of the year, was almost a scandal in the opposite direction from the government, where too much, too late came in and began to look at the permanent exemptions from the capital adequacy directive, which could be done several times earlier. As a result, the Norwegian export-oriented industry entered a vacuum where they did not know what to do. Even after the government got on the job, there was a great deal of uncertainty about this, and that ultimately also led to Norwegian financial institutions having borrowing problems on the deposit side. Did the Minister of Finance and Government learn some of this, and will they deal with these kinds of things differently with the EU in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e387	I agree with Mr Fletten's representative that it is important to get on the track early. We did so in connection with the deposit guarantee scheme. It is clear that it may be a disability that Norway has, that when we are not a member of the EU, we are in a way dependent on compliance with the procedures laid down in different directives and such things, so that we get into the process early. As far as the issue of export finance is concerned, there is a background to new EU capital rules, and not least to the issue of large exposures. That case went to the hearing in 2010, where this was mentioned, and the strange thing was that there were no comments from the export industry or others to that hearing. What has happened in the past is that we have now put in place – and the Stortinget will have a proposal on it – a good system for the Norwegian export industry in the future. The matter of export finance itself has now also calmed down considerably after the decision that the trustee made right before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e394	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e397	My question goes to the State Council of Aasland. Whether we talk about ICT, oil, gas, hydropower, infrastructure, aquaculture, shipyards and power-intensive industries, it is not unreasonable to claim that a significant part of Norwegian value creation, wealth and well-being rests on the shoulders of technology. When SV took over the Ministry of Knowledge, there was a shortage of 6 000 technologists in Norway. Today, six years later, Nav says that the undercoverage is 14 000 technologists. Others claim that the number is larger. Findings of the size of Aldous/Avaldsnes – now called the Sverdrup field – in the Norwegian Sea and other Barents Sea findings will increase this need in the future. The consequence is a weakening of business creativity and a weakening of public sector innovation. So you can ask yourself if this development of technologist deficiency is a deliberate strategy from an oil critical SV, which would preferably have the extraction rate down on Norwegian pedestal. I wonder if the Council of State is concerned about this development, and whether the government has a plan to solve this. There are record numbers of students at Norwegian universities and universities today. There are record numbers of study offers, which may mean that fewer than else will study technology. But we see, in spite of this enormous size of the sector, that the technologist deficit varies in the order of 1 000 to 2 000 technologists each year. So the question is, is the Council of State worried, or does she think this is okay? What, if any, is the government's plan to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e410	The Council of State does not think this is right, and the Council of State does not think it is right that we have a lack of both teachers, health professionals and preschool teachers as well as a lack of technologists. That is why it is important for me to have an overall perspective on this, and it is important to consider how we should manage to get more of the students to choose precisely the professions and areas where there is a need. I fully share Lien’s view that there is a need for technologists. I'm taking away from the statements that came between the lines here. However, in a technological context, whether oil and gas extraction or other key societal areas, a diversity of knowledge is needed. Real science, in which the technology subjects are included, is an area where the government has actually invested in its own strategies to attract students to choose precisely those subjects. We are in the situation that many of these choices depend on the young people themselves. It's the ones that decide what to start studying. What we can do is we can help show where the needs are and how exciting and rewarding it is to work with, for example. real science and technology. We have our own initiative to get more women to study real science and technology, and we have our own model agency where we get the good models, so that young women also consider choosing a technology subject. There has been a large increase in this area during the time we have been doing, but I fully agree with the representative that we have a way to go yet, and therefore we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e419	I'm familiar with the fact that it's also undercovering teachers. There later on at least the government as if it had a plan, and several government councils are clear that you're trying to do something about it. The difference is that there is an obvious study of teacher training, while to many of the technology training is a test, so I don't think this is completely comparable. It also has something to do with the huge growth in the number of study offers, which means that someone else who might have chosen to study technology chooses to do something else. You might have to be careful to draw out examples, but I'll assume that, for example. future Norwegian value creation is slightly less dependent on a person with personal training from Bali than on strengthening technology training. Is the Council of State willing to address that kind of debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e428	I can assure the representative that there is no government strategy to get more people to study to become a personal trainer, just so that's said. On the other hand, we have both a plan and a strategy for the professions I mentioned, namely teachers, pre-school teachers and health professionals, as well as for the real subjects and the engineering subjects. The plan here is to show through models how exciting such professions and educations are, regardless of individual desires — not just to be involved in and contribute to important value production, for example. oil and gas activities, but also in all other parts of society where this is needed. We have this plan, and here we have a good interaction with our higher education institutions. But I would like to stress how, as the government's responsible for this, I have to have a holistic view of all of our education services. That's why we've done this on the government side when we set up new places of study, that we've concentrated on three areas, of which this is one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e438	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e441	Demand for engineers, technologists and technical experts is largely due to good oil industry growth. Two to three years ago, the SV’s oil and energy policy spokesman said that young people would be managed away from petroleum-oriented education. So late last year, the SV spokesperson on the Energy and Environment Committee said that you have to use the best heads elsewhere than in the oil industry. This occurs at the same time as the investments on the Norwegian base are record-high – 175 billion. kr in year. There are six crisis packages from the 2008 financial crisis. These are investments supported by SV. When Stortinget on 9 June last year adopted initial investments on Norwegian pedestal equivalent to 90 billion. kr, supported them all – while the strategy was to have fewer qualified people to do that job. It's irresponsible economic policy, because it makes you create pressure in the economy, you create bottlenecks, it's increasing wages, it's increasing prices. From a logical point of view: how is this policy linked?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e450	I stress that this is the government's bet we're talking about here. The government is made up of three parties, which in all of these bets of course stand together. I think it is a positive signal that business needs are increasing. We need qualified engineers, and as I said in my previous answer, the government obviously has its own strategy to strengthen the real subjects as well. More than 800 new places of study — among the new places of study we have allocated — have been allocated to the real subjects in 2009 and 2011, and we see a gradual positive development in recruitment. It is also important to reduce non-response, so that more implement. We see that there are some cases of non-compliance in these subjects. But it is clear: for the government, it is important that we stimulate young people to apply for the real subjects and to implement the real subjects, and this is – like other professional groups where we also need more recruitment – a deliberate act by the government. Real science is not without reason one of the government's three main fields of action in vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e459	Elisabeth Aspaker – to the next and last follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e462	Good future technologists demand good primary school teachers, and among the professions in which there is scarceness, teachers and the lack of teachers may be the most serious, for this is labour we cannot import. It takes time to train new teachers, and if action is not taken relatively quickly, we know that we are going to cope with the age of teacher crisis in Norway. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that Norway may be lacking by 20 000 teachers in 2020. There are seven to eight years ahead, and this requires countermeasures of a far different magnitude than the GNIST can refer to. GNIST has given more applicants, but the decline is large, and the net gain is very close to what we would like. Does the Council recognise that the GNIST measures are not sufficient and what new concrete measures will the government take to close the gap of 20,000 teachers in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e471	I do not know how much the representative Aspaker follows on from the facts – not only the GNIST bet, but also the commitment to new teacher training. The government has of course seized this. Now the students in new teacher training have gone well and well for one year; they started their new teacher training last year, and we see good results, not least in applying for the teaching profession. Here are many things that are related: GNIST will establish a partnership where municipalities and all actors, all school owners, will recognise the importance of getting more and better teachers. The new teacher training traines more and better teachers, so we've got an increase in the number of applicants of 50 pst. during the time this has taken place. I don't think the representative Aspaker or her party had managed to get a better increase, and anyway, it takes four years to train a teacher. So we started with this years ago and now we're starting to see results. So here we've really invested, and this is going to bear good fruits.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e478	So we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e481	My question goes to Councillor Lisbeth Berg-Hansen. During last year's seafood days at Hell in Stjørdal, Minister of Agriculture and Food, Breck proclaimed that domestic farming was to be a new area of activity for the red-green government – to a great deal of enthusiasm for those present, both the people of the industry and politicians. With this bright experience and the good words in memory, I took up a matter that I had been working on for a while. Some time later I sent a letter, first to the Minister of Agriculture, but it was answered by the Minister of Coast and Fisheries. The case concerned Kirkenes Charr AS, who is a breeder located in South Varanger. This company is one of the leading smokers in Norway. They have received national prices for an excellent product. The company had had a healthy development, and the development of production meant that they had to look around for new, more practical and profitable ways to get their products slaughtered. Then some of their problems began. The traditional means of transporting the shrimp, by wellboat, was not applicable due to fish health and the fishing health legislation. What they then found out was that this was a closed farm, and that they might be able to co-locate their slaughterhouse with the farm. Then they're relying on new problems. It turned out that the fjord they were 100 metres away was a national salmon fjord, and then it was not allowed to establish a slaughterhouse there. This is a little problematic for new breeders, and my question to the Council of State is: Can it seem that the law on national salmon fjords is interpreted a little too strictly when the plant is 100 metres up ashore, and also in the case of a closed farm?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e494	As the representative Bakke-Jensen points out, this is one company, and there are actually two issues, related to the location and extension of a slaughterhouse in a national salmon fjord. When the national salmon fjords were established, this was also a theme of which the Storting, and not least the Energy and Environment Committee, had comments on, and they were also clear in their speech that existing installations should be given real opportunities for development. With regard to the specific matter to which the representative Bakke-Jensen refers, it is for consideration in the department, and I believe that it would be wrong for me to handle a matter in the Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e503	But I guess we can look a little bit around that case. So the process today is that you have live smoke, you numb the smoke, and then you send it in a closed pipe that, if you are going to get a leak, you have to blow up to the room where you kill it, where you slaughter it and cut the file off. You take care of all the waste. In fact, bureaucracy is now driving and interpreting the legislation so that we can defend ourselves against weekly Easter chemicals – for this smoke, then, lives again in order to be able to disperse the hundreds of meters down to the edge of the water, to the sea. I am aware that when you sit as a government council, you do not have to deal with it, but can we see a little bit about it: Is this the good climate that the Minister of Finance said, the good climate to create for people who want to create businesses, create jobs and drive value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e514	I have from this pulpit many times mentioned that I am very concerned about increasing not least the value creation based on the existing facilities we have. In that way, this is clearly things, because we don't just have one, we actually have two to treat right now. So I would like to have taken a long and detailed discussion of what happens to fish both when they are stunned, transported, slaughtered and filleted. I actually have some experience from that, so there we could have had an interesting discussion about what could happen and not happen. But when I stand on this platform, it is primarily as the responsible state council for an area that Stortinget has said quite a lot about – national salmon fjords. I am set to take care of the decisions taken in this Chamber, both related to national salmon fjords and taking into account the comments made in order to provide real opportunities for development. I have those decisions with me when I am now going to deal with these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e522	Two follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first by the representative Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e525	For the right, the farming industry is important. It gives us good district jobs, export incomes and healthy food. In Fjæra in Etne municipality in Hordaland, politicians and residents have fought to realize a new and modern closed set-aside fishing facility upon application from Marin Harvest. The County of Hordaland raised objections to the Ministry of the Environment and tried with what the political leaders have given a unanimous increase in land-based farming. It is now six months since the last time the Right asked for progress in this matter, and it is obvious to us that there is SV as here is the brake block for this and for others in the industry. So my question is whether the Minister of Fisheries can defend the long time it takes to deal with this matter, and whether the Council of State can accept that the government might say no to such a commitment to the adopted policy of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e532	The President must be told that it is obvious that it is not the purpose of oral Question Time to address the type of specific individual matter for consideration. If the Council of State wants to answer on a principle basis, the Council of State would like to have a chance to do so. Something quite different is following up the fundamental question of the possibility of getting to sea over 100 meters of land – but here it is a very simple matter, and the Council of State will have to decide if she will answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e535	I have to admit that standing and dealing with individual matters is demanding, even for a government council, and of course all the individual matters along the coast I do not have a detailed overview of. It is shown here that it is a closed set-aside. Yes – the squid facilities are closed, they are all on land as one. If this matter is about another special matter that we have discussed, and in which we have now concluded – to have the set fish on land longer – it is in the case of another matter. If that's the case, I can at least say that there's a case we've concluded in and allowed to have set fish up to 1 kg on land, for a long trial period – which is interesting in a major discussion about escape, prevention of lice and that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e540	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e543	I'm not going to drill so deep into whether a shrimp fillet can get 100 meters down to a salmon fjord to then multiply by the wild axis, I think that's actually impossible. But what worries me is the time it takes from the matter being appealed to the department, until there are answers. This is where the Council of State has great responsibility – just to look at the legislation, and not least the treatment period, according to what some overly regional directors of the Food Authority have come up with on this matter. A similar case is linked to a tourist business in Midsund in More and Romesdal, which is also in the same situation. They didn't get a viewing concession for salmon because they were too far away from people. Here's a lot of weird stuff in the code. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State contribute to the rapid resolution of these matters? This is where money is actually invested, and you want to bet in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e552	I fully understand that it is possible to make fun of some things that may seem a bit strange. But as I say, there is a code in this room around the national salmon fjords that I obviously have to deal with. I'll do that. Then I fully agree with the representative Nesvik that a shrimp file will at least not multiply, if it should end up in the sea in the event of an accident. That's where we're in full agreement. In terms of time use, I do not have the date for the two cases. I don't think they came in so terribly long before Christmas, some of them, so exactly the two things I think we have pretty good control of. I intend to treat them quickly. I think at least one came in before Christmas, I think maybe the other also did. But anyway, they have to be treated. That case in Midsund is something quite different. We can do our own discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e561	So the oral question time is over, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e573	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 2, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister of Justice, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is busy in the second meeting. Question 7, from the representative Laila Marie Reiertsen of the Minister of Labour, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, by Mr Ine M. Eriksen Soreide to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 9, from the representative Kjell Ingolf Ruppstad to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is engaged in the second meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e601	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e615	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e622	There are questions to the Minister for Transport that say: ‘NTP 2010-2019 has a strategy for transferring goods from road to rail. The aim is to facilitate a doubling of the capacity to carry goods by rail by the end of 2019. The allocation letter from the Ministry of Transport to the Railway Agency on the State Budget for 2012 emphasises the objectives and strategy. The letter of allocation points to cooperation in creating good train offers; close dialogue with, among others. train companies and other interest groups. How do the Councils follow up the cooperation between the Railway Agency and the NSB and between them and the users?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e631	It is open to competition for the carriage of goods on the Norwegian network. The railway undertaking is responsible for the allocation of train paths on the network and on freight terminals following applications from train companies which have the necessary safety clearance from the State Railway Authority. In order to facilitate the improvement of rail freight transport, the Railway Agency cooperates closely with all rail companies that have been given access to the network. This does not apply at least to CargoNet AS which is eighted by NSB AS and which is currently the largest transport company operating on the Norwegian rail network. The work on strengthening the competitiveness of rail in relation to road traffic is central to achieving the rail policy objectives. This is one of the things. also underlined in the letter of allocation from the Ministry of Transport to the Railway Agency for the 2012 budget. In order to ensure professional management of the supplier and customer relationship, the Railway Agency has strengthened its follow-up work on several levels in relation to its customers. A fixed meeting point has been established between the Railway Agency and the train operators both locally and centrally to discuss measures to improve safety and quality of train services. The Railway Agency also cooperates with the railway companies in their follow-up to freight customers in order to get the best possible understanding of the needs of the transport market. The Ministry of Transport has in its letter of assignment to the Railway Agency, among others. pointed out that it is important to ensure neutral and open processes at all stages of the Railway Agency’s supply of train paths to the freight operators in order to facilitate the improvement of access to more operators on the track. The main single factor in making rail transport more competitive today is to achieve more punctual and reliable traffic management. To achieve this, the Railway Agency, in close cooperation with the train crews, is working systematically to improve punctuality and regularity. So far, this work has been shown to give positive results. The Ministry of Transport, on its side, follows the cooperation between the NSB’s subsidiary CargoNet, the Railway Agency and the users in the owner’s dialogue with the NSB and when needs need arise that need to be discussed separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e644	Thanks for the answer. I'm a little bit curious about parts of it, because the signal from CargoNet is just that because of the lack of punctuality and regularity it is announced that you are moving goods from rail to road. However, my point is that the NSB is much more customer-based, has more customer-based focus than the Railway Works Authority, which is necessary to achieve the goal of doubling the capacity of rail freight by 2019. The question of follow-up is: How does the Ministry, and the Council of State, ensure that transport users' needs and user-driven investment in the railway sector are also realised at the Railway Agency? Lines are needed to run trains and safe lines and good capacity are needed to run a lot of goods on trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e653	Even if we now see a very positive development, the stability of freight traffic is not good enough. This is linked to many decades of missing maintenance and renewal of railway infrastructure. As a result, the government has chosen to give a very high priority to maintenance. Operating and maintenance permits for 2010, 2011 and 2012 are approximately 1.3 billion. kr higher than the plan frame for the corresponding period in NTP 2010-2019. There is no doubt that the Railway Agency is fully in the process of achieving a better bulwark – that is what they use the money for. We also see improvement month by month.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e660	The perspective here is up to 2019, and this is about a doubling. In order to achieve this objective, rail supply needs to be improved, developed and expanded, also elsewhere than in the Central East. In its potential study in Bergen, the NSB pointed out that rail between Åsane and Flesland, the country’s second largest airport — and, if possible, new freight port — could reduce the use of a private car by 20 pst. through Bergen and remove 75 pst. of all freight traffic currently crossing the port and rail terminal which is being moved to the road network in Bergen. Why does the State Council not take ownership of this project as requested by the NSB, but which the Railway Agency seems to ignore?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e667	Let me underline one more time: getting more goods across from road to sea is an important goal for this government. We are deeply concerned about the developments we have now seen, that when we build a better road, more goods pass by road instead of less. This is something that we work on continuously in different fields. When it comes to plans in Bergen, they have to enter a larger context – there may even be plans from local authorities other than following up their plans. Now we have a clear possibility of discussing both Bergen and other areas in a new national transport plan. At the same time, we must rely on everything we can with short-term measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e678	‘The government of Stoltenberg has stressed that the Interaction Reform should ensure a better, more holistic health provision in patients’ neighbourhoods. However, at the beginning of the reform, there are doubts about the continuation of the services offered by hospitals in Alta and Ål. These are actions the State Council itself has highlighted as a preliminary example of the functioning of the Cooperation Reform. What does the Council of State do to prevent good local health services from being closed as a result of budget cuts in health businesses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e685	With the Interaction Reform, we need to improve health care and create better health services, both in hospitals and in municipalities. Over the next few years, we know that we're going to get older, we're going to get more with chronic diseases and cancer, and at the same time, fewer people will be able to provide care. We need to strengthen healthcare to meet these challenges and be willing to make changes and solve tasks in a better way to ensure good health services today and in the years to come. In the mission paper of the regional health companies in 2012, I have underlined that changes in the activity of hospitals must be consistent with the construction of activities in the municipalities. With regard to the examples to which the representative Höie refers, I have been in contact with Health Nord RHF and Health South-East RHF. Health South-East has informed me that they see Hallingdal Sukestugu as an important arena for interaction between the company and the municipalities concerned, and that this has been further updated with the Cooperation Reform. A collaborative project is under way between the Hallingdal municipalities concerned and Vestre Viken HF to develop Hallingdal Sukestugu as a local medical centre. Until further notice, the operation continues unchanged with the same offer. The grant to hospitals in Finnmark will be continued for the next three years. Health Nord has informed that there is still to be a cost sharing between Health Nord RHF, Health Finnmark HF and the municipalities in order to ensure hospital care, but that this must be seen in the context of funds allocated to the municipalities in connection with the Interaction Reform. This includes funds for ready-to-print patients and immediate-help services in municipalities. It is often the same patients treated in hospitals. Hospitals in Finnmark are an example of an offer the government will have more of in the Cooperation Reform, and the grant is, as I said, to be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e694	I want the follow-up question to be specifically related to the situation in Alta. The offer in Alta is operated by the municipality, but is a specialist healthcare service, as the government also mentions it in Prop. 1 S, State budget for 2012. What's special is that Alta Municipality now experiences that Health Nord wants Alta Municipality to spend money that they now receive to accept patients who are ready-to- print, to pay for patients who have until now agreed to be hospitalized, not to be in the municipality. It may not be that the municipalities are forced to use the money that the municipalities now receive to receive their own patients more quickly, to pay for patients who are responsible for the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e703	It shall not be such as to pay money for what is to be the responsibility of the specialist health service, in addition to what is in the system of municipal co-financing. However, in terms of both Ål and Alta's offers, there is an offer that, in the future development we want, will have a model of a local medical centre, while to this day it has been substantially funded by the specialist health service. The most important thing, I would like to say – and stress – is that patients are given a good offer, and that, as today, good interaction is found between specialist health services and municipalities in order to obtain a good distribution of the economy, etc. in the case of the offer to be made. But we must also mention that there are three funding instruments in the cooperation reform. These are the ready-to-print, the co-financing and the instant-daily services. If the municipality receives money in connection with these, they must also be able to finance these very important and good offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e710	The government's reasoning would have been right if the patients who use the hospital in Alta today had been the category of patients that the council here draws out. But that's not the case. The patients who use the hospital in Alta today are paramedics who receive an offer in the specialist healthcare service in their municipality as an alternative by Alta having a separate hospital. Now the municipality will be required to pay the bill for these – money that the municipality had planned to use to expand the offer in relation to the hospital in Alta, just to give an offer to the ready-to-print patients, the immediate-help patients and the patients for whom the municipality has a responsibility. Alta municipality already has a significant under-coverage of hospital places in relation to what is intended to be needed. This may actually lead to a decline in the offer. Is this the intention of the Cooperation Reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e715	As I said in the first sentence of my first answer, the interaction reform is going to give us a better offer. I fully agree with the representative that these offers, as in Ål, as I know well, as well as the Alta Centre, are very important offers for the local population. There are long distances, and they provide a very important and safe health service. So I said in answer to the question about the situation in Alta that it will continue in its present form, at least for three more years. What is at least important is that we continue the offer and find a good way to finance it, and that there will not be a throwing ball between the municipality and the specialist health service. Here you have to find good solutions. But you also have to see that if it is financed by the fact that this is something that the municipality has to pay in other contexts, the municipality must also be involved in financing another type of offer, and then you will have to find good solutions to it. The most important thing for the population is that the offer has to exist, because we want more of this kind of offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e726	I would like to address a question to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘The size decided on a new rogue settlement last summer. Ulf was then ‘waited’ and one of the prerequisites was that it should be negotiated and discussed with Sweden in the future. No information flows from the Storting despite the signing of agreements and speculation that Norway should participate in project releases with wolves. In the infested game agreement point. 4.2. on the negotiations with Sweden, the following point is made: ‘The outcome shall be kept informed of the negotiations.’ What is the status of the negotiations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e735	It is true, as Gunnar Gundersen says, that the predatory game agreement of 17 June shows that the current stocking target for wolves is firm until an agreement with Sweden is reached. The inbreeding game agreement also suggests that the Scandinavian wolf population is heavily threatened by inbreeding. On the basis of this and the predatory settlement, several meetings have been held between Secretary of State Heidi Sørensen of the Norwegian Ministry of the Environment and the Swedish Ministry of the Environment to discuss the management of the wolf, and in particular how the two countries have worked to improve the situation. Let me also add that I have addressed the question with two Swedish Environment Ministers. There has been a change by the Minister of Environmental Protection in Sweden, so the matter has been addressed both with the previous one and with the current one. It has also been discussed with Finland, as it may be relevant to cooperation with Finland in this situation. These discussions were aimed at establishing the basis for subsequent negotiations on the distribution of cross-border drugs. Today, as known young people in border revirons are not included in the stock target on the Norwegian side, but in its entirety as part of the Swedish stock target. The starting point for the negotiations with the Swedish authorities is that border wolves are to be included in the Norwegian stock target by a factor of 0,5. This is based on the Government Declaration, Soria Moria II, and was adopted by the Storting through the Robbery Agreement. As stated in the Robbery Agreement point 4.2, negotiations with the Swedish authorities must start immediately after Sweden has completed its predatory investigation. It is announced that it will be in place on 1 April 2012. After this, the government will start negotiations on border wolves with the Swedish authorities. So no negotiations have started with Sweden, but there have been experiments to establish the basis for negotiations. That is also why I have not seen any reason to inform Stortinget since the negotiations have not started. The meetings of the State Secretarys, which are to be held in addition to the spring, are to be regarded as preparatory meetings. As a basis for further work, the State Secretaries signed two documents at their meeting last August. One document mentions an intention of greater cooperation between Sweden, Finland and Norway in the field of predatory game. The second document mentions the management of genetically important individuals of wolves, communication and information between countries, DNA analyses and stock monitoring, hunting/feeling, management labelling and research. This is in line with the predatory agreement, where, among other things, states that the conciliators consider it natural to cooperate with our neighbouring countries on the management of relevant predators. Cooperation with Sweden for a more genetically robust wolf population is a central intention in the document. We are not there today that we have formal negotiations or a binding agreement with Sweden on wolf management, but we expect to start this after 1 April when Sweden has completed its predatory investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e750	I am aware that there is no binding agreement on administration. But I'm a little surprised that there's no reason to go to the Storting anyway. Inbreeding is a significant problem. We risk, by isolating part of the Russian tribe, making an inbred variety of Russian wolf. That is what we are really involved in environmental policy. Then you have signed agreements with Sweden – I'm familiar with it from last autumn – where you go into assessments of the release of wolves from animal parks. It enters into agreements with Sweden to protect particularly valuable wolves. I believe that the deployment of wolves is quite conflicty, especially in view of the fact that Swedish breeders say very clearly that they are not involved in launching projects unless you guarantee that the wolves will not be shot. How can the Council of State guarantee that they will not be shot? Or how can he ensure that there is a Norwegian administrative regime and not a Swedish breeder’s administrative regime in force in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e757	Let me first stress that we operate on the basis of full transparency. Of course, any theme the Stortinget wants to see about, we will provide the Stortinget with information about. Now we don't want to bother the Storting with unnecessary details, but in each theme, Stortinget has of course full access to it, and it's going to get it. We have to make sure of that. When it comes to the issue of the release of puppies from zoos, we have highlighted a scepticism. We're afraid that it's diluting the distinction between domestic and wild animals, and has marked a scepticism for this. But of course, there's something Sweden is free to decide if they want to do, but we've marked a scepticism. Another potential issue is the release of wolves from Finland and Russia, possibly wolves that have come to other parts of Norway and are being moved. This is one of the themes that we can get back to. A positive side of it is that we get a larger number of genetically valuable individuals, so we don't go to extremes to protect a single individual, as we did in connection with Galventispa.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e766	It is at least good to hear that there is scepticism for this – I take the word of the Council of State for that. Then we're left with that fresh genes are Russian wolves that immigrate, or are brought in by transporting it in. It is not unproblematic either. Russia has rabies, and we can get, through Norwegian environmental policy, to introduce rabies in Norway. I wonder what the Ministry of the Environment is prepared to do on this issue. I noticed that the Council of State said that it was also a point to move Finland into the negotiations. I think that's very true. It's also a point to drag Russia in, because it's about part of the Russian tribe. And then we're also beginning to be able to discuss how threatened it is -- this to bring in some notions that there are actually some challenges to what we're doing here, which are quite serious. I hope the Council of State takes it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e775	Let me first say that I operate on the basis of the predator agreement. I hope Gunnar Gundersen does, too. In the predatory agreement, it is clear that we are going to protect wolves in Norway on the assumption that wolves are threatened and that we are also going to have a Norwegian wolf tribe. It would be nice if Gunnar Gundersen helped to make sense of it. Then I agree that moving individuals from Finland to Sweden and Norway is not a problem. A few individuals have come here using the natural method, although it is a difficult area and with significant conflicts with pure and others if you go through and into North Sweden, but there are several people who have taken up the natural method. That means there's a much greater genetic variation now than it was when we were running with Galventispa. The Swedish authorities are skeptical about moving the wolf because of rabies and believe it should be a significant quarantine period. As I see it, the Finnish authorities believe that there is no rabies in Finland. This is finally a professional question that needs to be resolved through discussion. I am very pleased that Gunnar Gundersen thinks it is positive that we are also in dialogue with Finland about this and can see at least tripartite cooperation – and maybe we will also eventually get Russia to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e788	‘The action space in the university and higher education sectors is under pressure. It is necessary to look at all costs. Magazine subscriptions have had 300 pst. price increase in the last 6 years. These are crucial tools, especially for researchers. Costs may be reduced by negotiating an overall subscription for the sector. However, TV 2 corresponds to the Council of State that this must be done by the individual institution itself. What is the basis on which the Council of State does not feel responsible for helping the sector to reduce the basic costs of such subscriptions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e795	I see beyond the hall that this is going to be between us! First, I would like to stress that I share Mr Harberg's view that attention is needed on the costs of professional literature and journals. Literature, textbooks, and journals are central to researchers. There are considerable costs to this, and I have noticed the large price increase. However, these subscriptions are necessary as a form of infrastructure for the institutions, and it is meritorious for researchers to publish in these journals. This is what the publishers know, so they have strong cards on their hands in the negotiations. However, in order to reduce cost levels, universities and colleges are already cooperating to conclude subscriptions through consortium agreements. This cooperation was previously coordinated by ABM development. Now this is done by the new system The Ministry of Knowledge has established for research documentation, Current Research Information System in Norway, also called Cristin. On behalf of the institutions, Cristin negotiates licensing agreements with different suppliers. The agreements concern access to electronic resources, such as e-journals, reference databases, dictionaries and lexicons. Cristin negotiates so-called open consortia, i.e. an institution may choose to participate in one or more of the agreements negotiated. Consortium agreements are open to university and higher education libraries, the institute sector, healthcare companies, public libraries, county libraries and institutions belonging to central government, such as: Directorates and supervision. This results in lower prices for the institutions participating in the consortia than they would if each of them themselves were to conclude agreements alone. However, the consortium agreements do not cover the full need for subscriptions by the university and higher education sectors. Therefore, institutions themselves must give priority to their fields of activity and choose how they equip their professional and research libraries, including the periodicals to which they wish to subscribe. This is the result of the autonomy granted to the institutions by the Law on Higher Education. Politically, I find it difficult to publish publicly funded research in journals that are cost-intensive for the institutions. In the 2008-2009 Research Communication Climate for Research, the Government recommends that all scientific articles resulting from publicly funded research should be open to the public through so-called Open Access publication. This implies that scientific publications are made freely available on the Internet. Author or author retains the copyright of the publication, but allows users to read, download, copy, distribute, print, search or link to the full text without asking for remuneration. I want to work, in cooperation with universities, colleges and other research actors, to significantly increase the proportion of publications through Open Access. In addition, in its dialogue with Cristin, the Ministry will assess whether there are additional gains to be gained through more or more comprehensive agreements. My goal, too, is that the costs here should be as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e823	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It's always a good starting point that you have a common understanding of the challenge. I feel that we have in this matter. So it's true that there are some arrangements. The concern is that there are parts of the higher education sector that feel that they are not being taken care of in this respect. It is therefore good to hear that the Council of State says that this will be taken into account. I said strangely to the council when we met yesterday, that I perceive that the TV question came up with a little bardishness, perhaps, and that one did not get a complete answer. Now we've got this, and that's very good. Then we could have had a long debate on how those who publish these publications use the situation they are in, but it's probably a debate that belongs in another committee and in another department. I read to the Council of State that she will now actively look at how to follow up these publications, and it is probably a task of a Council of State to facilitate these arrangements when they are not captured by the Cristin system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e832	It is quite clear that the representative has understood the Council of State correctly. We want to, as I said, do what we can to get the most publications out on Open Access. At the same time, of course, we will motivate and inspire the institutions to cooperate in good cooperation between institutions. Here you can also imagine an appropriate division of labour that reduces costs, as opposed to everyone buying all magazines. Here the institutions themselves have considerable autonomy, and they have an inspiration and a lead from the ministry that we would like them to cooperate in different areas. So I imagine this can be done. I want to do my job, of course, to make them aware of it and to stimulate such cooperation, because we have a common goal: here it should not cost so much that the institutions cannot afford to subscribe to important journals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e839	Thank you again for a constructive response. I feel that this is a step in the right direction. It's still a challenge. The action space of universities and colleges has been and is under pressure, not least because there are large increases in basic costs. It has at least been suggested and partly demonstrated by the Action Space Committee report that the increase in the sector’s subsidies has not captured the increased costs. My question then is about the Council of State – when we see that it is 300 pst. increasing this bit, which is a significant cost – can promise that she will also look into the basic transfers to universities and colleges in the revised budget and in preparation for the next budget to capture these price increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e848	It is my responsibility as the Council of State for this area to constantly work to ensure that the framework conditions become as good as possible. There has been a significant increase in universities and colleges, in fact also in the year's budget, compared to the previous budgets. I would like to stress the importance of the kind of action that the Cristin system is, because there is something we've been working on just to make it easier for availability to improve without increasing costs. It's an action that we're going to follow up, of course, like we have a general follow-up of the whole area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e866	This issue is postponed because the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e880	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e894	This question is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is busy in the second meeting. Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-18.ana.ud1643e909	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. - The meeting's been cancelled.
