ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e47	The President will take the opportunity to wish all representatives, all employees and others who have their daily work in the Grand Duchy a really good new year, and hope that it will be a good year of work for the benefit of countries and peoples. The representatives Sverre Myrli, Hilde Magnusson, Torstein Rudihagen and Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde For the Nordic counties: Knut Petter Torgersen For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bord Langsävold From the representatives Øyvind Halleraker and Janne Sjelmo Nordås there is an application for leave from 10 January to 30 March – both to attend a master's course at the Defence College. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the province of Hordaland: Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad For the Nordic region: Jon Øyvind Odland
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e109	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e123	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the member of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to six lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e132	Happy New Year! I'm happy today. I am proud that a government has for the first time presented a message that focuses only on high school. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and stress that I am pleased that there is such a consensus that there has been a need to adjust the facilities of high school. That we have cross-political agreement on the main features, I think it's more important for School-Norway than we think. The measures to be taken now in secondary school will allow more students to master and to succeed. It's a victory for School Norway and a victory for the students. I hope that also with time will be shown on the drop-off statistics in high school. A unanimous committee therefore adheres to the need for more practical, concrete and varied teaching in all subjects. Nevertheless, some people have had an interest in spreading a view that only the introduction of electives should provide a more varied school. I have to say I'm a little surprised at the statements from, among other things. Right in the newspaper just before Christmas, where they say again that the government does not like to decorate the cake with two hours of choice. If you have read the Storing Message, it is almost good to not have it that it emphasizes that one should have more varied, concrete and practical focus in all hours. The Committee also stresses collectively that curriculum objectives do not specify methodological choices. Freedom of method means that there is an opportunity to do both practical and theoretical work in the hours you already have. Variations in working conditions are important for adapting training. We get the best schools when we give room to the professional teacher. In the eagerness to improve high school, we should not forget that the goal of primary school, of mastering basic skills, is firm. Therefore, the importance of continuing to strengthen basic skills such as Norwegian and mathematics is also emphasised. In particular, the Committee draws up and reads and supports the Ministry’s special emphasis on this in the 2010–2014 reading exercise. In previous years, it was possible for students to choose a course in high school for a few hours a week. This only disappeared with L97 when the elective subjects were replaced by optional subjects with choices between language and practical project work. The practical project work completely disappeared with the Knowledgelift in 2006 and was replaced by immersion in Norwegian, English or Sami. Already in the Single European Act, which provided the basis for the 6-year reform in 1993-1994, it was said that it was important to look at youth: ‘The youth age has in many ways been too under-estimated.’ This was written almost 20 years ago. And the sail if some people think it's wrong to say that high school has been the forgotten step, I think we can afford to admit that the attention to the step has not been given much attention since 1993. Not unnaturally, the focus was on the lower age groups, as it was high at the time that six-year-olds started school This time, however, it is only the high school it is about. Now no one can say that high school is the forgotten step. The youth school now has a full focus and will also have it in its follow-up through its own strategy for implementing the changes. I think with my hand on my heart I can say that almost every time I've been on this platform, I've taken up the need for a more practical school and a larger set of practical subjects. Maybe some have also become a little tired of it. But to be able to show that you're doing something is something we all depend on to thrive in everyday life – even if you're the best in practical skills. Well-being provides a basis for learning. That is why it is wonderful for me to see that an overall committee agrees that: ‘Practical skills and knowledge must be recognised in line with academic knowledge in the training’. That's what I call going out with a good bid from Stortinget to all the country's students! Having visited a number of colleges that have called for more flexibility in order to provide the best possible training for both practical and theoretical skills, I am pleased that a joint committee will now reintroduce the electoral profession. Thus, the ‘pyrette on the cake’ is a valid item. The entire Committee now considers that the introduction of the electoral profession will: ‘is an important measure to increase motivation and mastery feeling and will provide positive ballast that the student will be able to transfer to other subjects’. [[...]] – Yes, except for the school office in Oslo, I have registered today. The Committee also considers that having several hours of work already available does not necessarily increase learning outcomes, but, on the contrary, may have the opposite effect. That's why I'm sure it's okay to redispatch some lessons in the professional and hourly distribution to give room for the electives. How a specific organisation of the electoral professions can be determined locally. It was a huge interest to sign up for work trials. The occupation is ‘mini-professional’. Youth students shall become familiar with the different courses of study at a professional level in secondary school. More than half of the country's municipalities wanted to be involved in the experiment with the subject already in the start-up year. Only a few schools had a chance. The evaluation is not completed until 2013, but the positive response from the schools allows the entire committee to support the government’s proposal to open up the possibility for all schools that want it to introduce work from the fall this year. It is important to stress that the subject should be a real offer for all students and not serve as a placement for students according to their professional level. A Joint Committee asks the Ministry to follow up on this with the schools in advance of the 2012–2013 school year search. Vocational training choices were introduced as a compulsory subject from the autumn of 2008. The course shall provide students with experience in the content, tasks and working methods of secondary education and 60 pst. the time shall be used for testing at least two different secondary education programmes. It has been shown that the subject has organisational and substantive challenges, and an overall committee has underlined the importance of seeing the link between educational choices and the labour market, so as to avoid duplication and achieve maximum impact. The practical-esthetic subjects score high among students in terms of well-being, work form and motivation. It has been pointed out that student assessment through measurement and testing is in the process of developing the subjects in a way that is unfortunate in relation to the objectives of the subjects. It is important that the focus on basic skills also in these subjects should not lead to the specific nature of a subject. The practical-esthetic subjects are primarily subjects for students to develop and demonstrate their creative and creative abilities. In this context, I would also like to point out the need to recruit enough professionals. A good teacher makes the difference known, and it is therefore positive that the department wants to develop closer cooperation between performers and the school as well as with the resources available in the individual cultural schools. We are in a financial crisis in Europe. The effects of what they're struggling with there will also have consequences for our country. I think we've just seen the beginning of this so far. In an unknown future, ability to convert and receive new learning becomes alpha and omega. In this way, it will be absolutely necessary for as many students as possible to become familiar with entrepreneurship both as a model in teaching and as a model in participation in voluntary work, but not least in familiarising themselves with how to start, implement and wind up an enterprise. It is a very clear signal to all schools in the country that the entire committee wants more schools to offer entrepreneurship and that the Young Entrepreneurship programme should also include social entrepreneurship, i.e. entrepreneurship aimed at meeting social societal challenges. A positive learning environment is essential for learning. Studies show that those schools and classes that have good relations between students and teachers have less bullying and greater well-being than others. It's a leadership responsibility to create a good learning environment. It is a responsibility for the individual principal and for the individual teacher. Being seen in one day can be the small extra that makes the motivation for going to school present. Figures from the Institute of Public Health show that the whole 15-20 pst. mental distress in some form or other by young people. It is therefore obvious that students have an impact on their functional level — and thus affect their ability to learn. Cooperation between schools and at home is also very important. Not least in youth. Being met with expectations from both teachers and parents is more important than what many might think, but it is important that everyone speaks the same language and conveys the same expectations. It's hard to be a parent when you're young. Lessons are becoming more demanding, and students are often a little unpredictable ‘pubert’ bombs. I have also this time talked about a more practical and varied school, where both those with theoretical and those with practical skills are allowed to develop. Unfortunately, I must disappoint those who might have hoped that I would be done with practical subjects now, but I am probably not – not until the practical subjects have naturally achieved the same level of recognition as the more academic ones. I trust that the schools will see the opportunities now given, and look forward to a good debate and implementation of a more varied, practical, motivating and modern high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e195	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e198	I record that the representative didn't say anything about the New GIV, which is introduced in the last six months students go to high school. It was introduced to ensure that as many students as possible have a stand-alone character when they have completed secondary education. The students have already gone to school for nine and a half years, and it is almost impossible to take in everything they have not learned before. Experience shows that it is important for students to experience that they master school every day throughout school, even from 8th grade. It is a fact that students who are struggling to master their schooling often also have problems with other issues in school. The question then arises whether the Centre Party will ensure that similar measures such as the New GIV are extended to 8th grade, so that students who are struggling with the subject do not go to secondary school for two and a half years before they receive a better adapted school offer. This means a lot to each student.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e205	As I see it, and as I think the department and government see it, the New GIV is really an 'emergency solution', I would say. What is now happening with regard to the whole conversion from high school – that we introduce the 8th stage electoral profession and introduce the labour market gradually – is what will help us not to need the New GIV at the other end, because then the students get a varied and more interesting day of school from the first stage they enter, in the 8th grade. The read strategy will be such a measure. The maths strategy will also be such a type of action. The fact that we're going to start with New GIV from the 8th stage, I think it's completely wrong. I believe that New GIV should in the long run be a system that is phased out of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e210	Electoral subjects are now to be introduced into national secondary schools. In larger places and in larger schools, this can be done through job distribution and depression and also by extracting resources from outside. The challenges will be in the smaller areas and in the small schools. At present, the right is promoting proposals to make it easier for them to offer a real choice in several disciplines, such as: by enabling electives in such small places to be applied throughout secondary education in order to release resources in a different way, so that all the resources available in schools that are likely to have little resources are used. The government parties are against it, and I find that strange. What measures have Tingelstad Wøien taken to ensure that smaller municipalities with small secondary schools will be able to provide good choices for those students who will be offered for the harvest, and how will she ensure qualified education for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e217	Now, the curriculum for the new electoral subjects is out for consultation until the month of March. I'm guessing that what the representative Harberg is addressing will be one of the issues that some schools are going to focus on, because it's obvious that it can be demanding for the smaller schools to get a wide enough selection offer. I also believe that I know School-Norway so well that I know – and I am sure Svein Harberg agrees with me – that there are many schools that are going to put life in place and want to ensure the widest possible selection offer for all the students out there. I can't see, and I don't remember either, that the Right in its alternative budget added some money to introduce electoral offers for all three school years. It is possible that I am wrong, but this also has a cost side. I think we're going to have a very good electoral career, and I think we're going to have teacher's powers that will make sure that the students get a very good offer out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e226	The case rapporteur is quite right in saying that talking about practically directed subjects has been a big matter for her. I believe that the whole message contains a lot more than elective. If you are to be given practical disciplines, it can quickly become just good words and good desires. It requires both competence and resources to get it into school. Now the government has said that the electoral professions should only be partly financed by fresh funds; something should be financed by redistributing already within the school. Then, when it comes to the economic and administrative consequences of what you decide, you say it won't cost any more. Does the representative really think that it is possible to get practical instruction in heavy, theoretical subjects without providing more resources in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e233	No, no, no. But it is also the case that resources have been put in to introduce the electoral profession from this fall. At first, I just want to commend the representative Eriksen for her commitment to practical subjects – I think we share it, both of them. That being said, of course, it is clear that more resources are required in School-Norway in applying practical methods in ordinary education. I think we actually have a good deal to go to school-Norway today. It is about seeing the potential of the resources actually available in the different schools. So I'm not so afraid of it. I understand that many teachers could wish for tipping top gear for everything, but I am absolutely sure that through different types of concreteization we can get a more practical teaching in the ordinary subjects outside the electoral fields, as I think it is now. Then the electoral professions will also need resources, and that must be something that we must also follow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e240	For the Central Party, it is a mantra that the wit is equally distributed throughout the country, and one can assume that this means that the Center Party assumes that even in urban schools in small municipalities without secondary school, there are students with sufficient knowledge that they are qualified to take upper secondary education even if they are in primary school age. It either requires costs in connection with the organisation of the digital infrastructure, i.e. sending the teacher via broadband to the student, or it may require even greater costs by sending the student physically to another municipality. Does the representative and the case-rapporteur believe that the clarification of the financing of this type of activity is sufficiently clarified in this Communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e248	Yes, it could have been done even better. But today it is the municipality that is responsible for high school students, and then it becomes a collaboration with the high schools on how to finance the scheme itself. Having said that, I do not think it is the funding that is the biggest challenge, I think it is the other thing that Lien pointed out, given that there are quite a number of schools scattered around this country. Being able to get the opportunity to take a higher-level course I think is something the government – at least the department and we in the committee – will now join in and follow up on ahead. It is so important that a level playing field is given, if not everyone has the right to do so, but at least there is an opportunity for students in District Norway to take a higher-level course. It'll be very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e255	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e258	Every harvest is the school start of the first-raters an equally large event around every municipality. The sight of the little but very well-trained kids is touching. They're full of undefined expectation, a great dose of curiosity, a little less dose of excitement and unrest, all stirred up in a bunch of a frightful blend of happy to meet this new world they're going to spend at least ten years in, preferably 13 years in, and more. It's not the same magic over the gang that bitches, turds or moves slowly into high school, the same beautiful harvest day, but for them eight years later. What happened on the road? They've learned a lot, they've evolved a lot, they've experienced mastering, but also disappointments and adversity. A lot of people get bored, and it's way more than they did at the beginning of school. They're bored at school, they're lacking motivation, they're struggling with school fatigue, and they don't understand why they're teaching the subjects. This is more attractive to high school students than to pre- and post-secondary students. This is where the big challenge lies. The age from 13 to 16 is demanding, at the same time, these years are laying the foundation for what goes on in life. The course for both professional and social development is being set at this stage. If it goes wrong here, this often leads to major problems later in life, problems that it's vrent to fix. Our knowledge-rich case rapporteur has excellently loosed the committee through the drafting process. She has also presented important points of view on the part of the Committee. I would therefore like to raise three issues that the Workers' Party believes are essential for the success of this important message. First, it is the importance of a good implementation strategy. There is an innumerable ambitious decision taken in this room and in other decision-making bodies on Norwegian school over many, many years. But it's far from a big decision that everyday life changes out there in the classroom and in the reality of the individual student. Experience is clear and clear; resources must be used to implement national policies so that there is actually a change in school. It is therefore very good for the Ministry to develop a strategy for implementation. Item No 2 is to make all subjects more pragmatically correct and give a more varied form of teaching. It means in clear terms that, following the adoption of the notification and the implementation of the implementation strategy, it is expected that there will be a greater variation in the way in which it is worked in secondary school. In other words, a marshaller to the high school to vary education much more than what we see today. Students need to be activated, education needs to be made relevant and should also be more practical in order to increase motivation. This will require competence and ability to continue to be structured on the part of teachers. Employers have to take responsibility and ensure that schools have the skills they need and that school managers have to take responsibility. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of introducing the modern variation of the electoral profession. I have great hopes of what the new subjects can trigger by raising the skills of students, of the experience of mastering and of a more practical education closely related to the students' own interests. I feel that the committee shares this view on the electoral subjects. It is therefore quite strange to read in the newspaper today that the University of Oslo, Torger Odegaard, says that he should apply for exemption from Oslo School. Ødegaard is no one in the Right. Let it go that he was skeptical when the message was presented and before the Right had taken his position, but when he has not even changed his course after the Right Storing Group said yes to this form of electoral profession, it is mildly alarming to claim that introducing the electoral profession is doing these weakest of all a bear service. It shows briefly that he does not know what he is talking about, but I am absolutely sure that the representatives of the Right in the Chamber can explain to him just this. Giving Oslo students an exemption from the electoral profession would be to discriminate against the Oslo students in a way that I guess they won't find out, and that for good reason. Finally, we should never forget — even in this case — that the main objectives for Norwegian school are fixed. All students, whether in primary school, i.e. in primary school, or in secondary school, shall master basic skills. They shall experience inclusion and mastering and shall be ensured so that they can complete secondary school and receive either a letter of formal qualifications or a letter stating that they have carried out a specialisation in the study. So in this way – with this high school announcement – we will achieve even more the ambitious goals we have for Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e284	This report is an important contribution to the further development of youth, and we in the Progress Party are very pleased that there is cross-political agreement on several important elements. Two of the elements that now receive broad support from a total accumulation are the New GIV – which will enable the mentally weak students to receive training at their level – and at the same time open up the professionally strong students to take a higher level of education. Both of these measures are supported by the Progress Party, as they both involve the institutionalisation of level-sharing – among others. with the support of the Workers' Party. Therefore my question becomes: can the representative of Aasen confirm that the former resistance of the Workers' Party to school level-sharing is now dead?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e293	I cannot confirm the description of reality that Mr Hanekamhaug came here, but I can confirm that, of course, we support New GIV, which we have taken the initiative, which is wholeheartedly supported by Mrs Halvorsen, and which her department is implementing. We also support something that already exists in Norwegian school, and which we continue here, namely that theoretically good students – especially in math, English and Norwegian – can take courses at a higher level in secondary school. None of this is directly contrary to the level-sharing principle, although New GIV has a variant in border countries. However, I would say that it can be defended for the following heavy reason: One main goal in Norwegian school is that all children and young people will be able to complete high school. We know that if they cancel out the basic basic subjects in the autumn of the 10th grade, they won't make it. We have to do everything we can in the last spring to make sure that they exist. Therefore, there is no problem in defending that system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e298	The representative Marianne Aasen spoke of students as ‘subber’ into high school, and good transitions are very important for motivation and mastering. The municipality of Oslo is not only the best in the class in terms of hours in addition to the statutory requirement for primary school students to provide them with the best possible basis for secondary school, but the municipality is now also introducing transition tests in the 7th grade, which will provide the secondary school with important information about the students' professional knowledge when they begin their early childhood. It is important to get a good start and to be able to provide well-adapted training from day one. In the election campaign, the representative Marianne Aasen supported this measure, but today she is voting against the Right's proposal on the same subject. Does this mean that the Workers' Party has now changed its mind? Or: Why is it that you vote against a proposal you have previously said you are in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e305	I'm very happy to get this particular question, so I can clarify this if there's confusion in the right at this point. I am in favour of all the measures taken to improve the transitions. There are major weaknesses in Norwegian school between all transitions, from kindergarten to 1st grade, from 7th grade to 8th grade and from 10th grade to high school. Everything that can ensure more information and better information flows there is very good. With regard to the transition tests in Oslo, I have no objection to Oslo having such, as long as the sum of tests does not become too large. That's the way I expressed myself. But I don't want to, as a big-time politician, force all the municipalities across the country to do those tests. They may have different types of information, different types of screening tests, other ways of dealing with it locally, which I don't want the Storting to interfere with. So in my opinion, there's no contradiction at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e312	The representative of Aasen said in his statement that when we have finished this matter from Stortinget's side, a marshalling earth is being given out to Norwegian teachers that they are now going to vary the teaching. She said that there is a need for skills, and she also stressed that it is neither the responsibility of the Stortingen nor the government, but that this has to be taken care of by employers. But what she didn't mention was whether there would also be a need for resources in education to get a variety of instruction in the ordinary subjects. For example, if you are to practice a theory subject such as: It may be that, in addition to the competence of teachers, there may be a need for some investment in teaching materials — ranging from building blocks to card stands, and in the field of chemicals and lab facilities — but the government believes that the full implementation of all these desires that we now have for high school should not cost anything extra. Does the representative continue to believe that she can carry out varied teaching without more input?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e317	Yeah, I mean it, actually. But I also think you can of course do it even more exciting if you get extra resources. We do that in part, and we're going to keep doing it through a good local economy. But it should not be a perception in School-Norway that making teaching more practical depends on adding new resources. There are many schools – and they probably have both the representative Eriksen and I visited – that have taken action to make teaching more practical, and that only make it possible by working differently. What does ‘practice-oriented’ really mean? Well, that means, for example, working a lot more in groups. It doesn't cost much money. But it's doing far too little, and you don't have to look long to find students at any high school that wants to learn differently. Variety of education is not necessarily very costly. But then there may be plans that cost more, e.g. to travel on excursions, and then we have to make sure that there is also money for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e322	I want to follow up what Dagrun Eriksen asked for, because it is clear that the Workers' Party believes that no more resources are needed to make school life more varied. What I think is fascinating in the production is that there are two types of children: children who have practical facilities and children who have academic facilities. I have met children who have both practical and academic facilities, and I have met children who have neither practical nor academic facilities. There are children who love to work with books, but who are also very practical. There is no type of child that can be divided as the Workers' Party makes it sound like. But if you're going to get kids with good learning outcomes, you're going to need at least good, smart teachers who know how to accommodate that particular adaptation to each individual student, on the basis of each individual's assumption. Then there is a much more varied scale than practical and academic children. My question is: when it comes to spending no more resources, are we going to be able to spend more resources on teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e330	With all due respect for the representative Trine Skei Grande – I don't think she quite heard what I was replying to the previous line. First of all, I said that it is possible to provide practical education – as the representative outlined it in his question – that does not cost more money. It's about how to put up the teaching. But it is of course also about spending more money, which I have not rejected at all. Then she claims that I had a one-dimensional view of practice and theory. I haven't, and I haven't said that in this room or anywhere else. I totally agree with Trine Skei Grande. Absolutely all types of pupils benefit more from more practical teaching. There's no difference there whether you're a theorist or a theorist. I think I leave this answer, because I didn't quite understand where she wanted this question on the basis of the post I made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e335	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e338	I really shut up every time I say this, but I'm saying it today anyway, and it's that, like the rapporteur, I think there's reason to stress that there's a great deal of consensus about a lot of what's being presented today. It may be boring for some of us, but I think it's good for school. We're setting up a school for everyone, a school that's more for everyone than the school we have today. We agree that equivalent education for all students is the goal. We agree that it should be equal to the right to adapted training, whether you're stronger than the other students, or whether you're weaker than the other students. We're assuming that the two objectives of equal education and equal rights to adapted training are to be equal to education and equal to progress for all. The misunderstanding that has ridden Norwegian school, that everyone who is born the same year will follow the same professional progress, is now abandoned. On one point, however, I think that the representatives Tingelstad Wøien and Tord Lien and the Progress Party have some different ambitions for what will happen further. For me – and for us – practical correction is not about reducing the theoretical level of ambition, but on the contrary. Using school practice to strengthen the theoretical training of students is, in my opinion, the objective. So it's like, no matter how much we talk about practical education, board education works. It's a terrible little sexy play and hardly any election winners, but board education works for most people. In order to provide good on-board education, you must have competent teachers. To master both onboard education and more practical education, which is the objective of this reform, teachers need even better skills. I was almost touched when I read the committee position, where it says the following about just this: ‘Variation in teaching has a positive effect on students’ motivation and learning. Teachers' professional competence and repertoire in working methods are essential prerequisites for practical and varied teaching. It depends, however, on good methodological and educational knowledge and overview of school management and teachers.’ Then we come back to what we may too often choose to discuss in this room and in the committee, and also in the media once in a while: the need for enhanced teacher training, the introduction of five-year teacher training, and not least the commitment to continuing training of Norwegian teachers. So to the polling profession: The representative of Tingelstad Wøien is quite right that this is a matter that is more than this, and the electoral profession I believe is one of the most important things we put in place today. For us on the right, it is clear that making choices for your own schooling is an important principle. That is why it is good that a unanimous increase is being made today to introduce the electoral profession. The progress party and the right has been a little fuzzy here in the past. Today could have been the day when the Advance Party and the Right could have put away the disagreement if the electoral profession is good or not. I think the right in the committee position makes it quite clear. That is why it is a pity – and the representative Harberg believes it – that this is a relatively easy matter to introduce into cities. The challenges are coming out in the districts. In particular, one of the Røre’s most tone-setting school politicians, Odegaard here in Oslo – in Oslo, which is actually Norway’s largest municipality, one of the municipalities that has the greatest chance to achieve this – doubts about what Right really means. But I hope that the Right Speakers here today will make it clear that the Right is for elective subjects. Then I would like to say that it is good to assume that there should be national curricula for the electoral professions. However, it is also necessary to ensure that the Education Directorate has the necessary capacity to assist the municipalities that want to do so by drawing up local curricula and making them national curricula. Not many municipalities in Norway will be able to do so alone. The Education Directorate must then be given the capacity to contribute to it. The Progress Party believes that we should have put some more long-term leadership into this work, with the aim of perhaps increasing the number of elective hours in the long term. We have tried to raise that debate, but have won little attention for it. However, we believe that we should be able to have a long-term objective to achieve that. I want to say with this that there are many good intentions. There could have been some more clear measures. I am promoting the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone, or is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e362	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he mentioned. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e367	The representative, Lien, has previously criticized the Right for using ideological customs duties. Tord Lien is a strong supporter of teaching as a research-based and knowledge-based learning. The Progress Party and the Right are in this setting – and otherwise – very concerned with the level differentiation and sorting of students. In the committee setting, the parties ask the government to dissolve the legislation so that individual schools can divide pupils into permanent groups by level of skill. But as far as I can see, there is no school-based research that supports such a proposal, rather on the contrary. A researcher whom Lien has relied upon before, Hattie, says on the contrary that there are no positive effects of this type of proposal, and that they often work against their purpose. My question is, what does the representative from the Progress Party understand with ‘ideological experiments’ at school? Isn't that exactly what he's doing here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e376	I note that the Workers' Party is desperately trying to pretend that they are still different levels in school. When it is known that the committee leader, who is also from the Labour Party, just gave the Labour Party the credit for introducing the New GIV, which is precisely level differentiation, and that today, in a unanimous process, with the Workers' Party, if not exactly at the top, then at least more or less voluntarily, also legislates the right to the possibility of faster progress for the students, two points have been accepted for the differentiation of levels also in the Workers' Party. It's okay, and I think that's good. Then I find it a little strange that you choose to attack us because we say that this must be possible in some cases where it is useful – even in more traditional forms and frameworks. Then I fully agree that it should not be the main instrument in Norwegian school. We're going to come back to Hattie when we discuss the teacher's density norm in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e381	I want to thank Tord Lien for a wise article. I want to follow up by asking what the representative means by onboard education. Is it board instruction with chalk, is it with smartboard, or is there anything in between? But maybe that's what Lien can do in his three-minute post later. What I was going to ask was the relationship of the Progress Party with the arts and culture subjects and with the cultural school in school. Centrally, the party has a slightly distorted relationship with this; sail if the Progress Party locally does very well both in terms of the cultural school and in terms of taking arts and culture into school. But in the attitude of the Progress Party, it says that it is nice to let go of artists and forces from the cultural schools, but it must not be done in teaching. So it has to happen on the outside. How can the Progress Party be aware of such an approach? The party of progress is a party that, in other contexts, is very affordable to celebrate this by taking people from business and social life into our schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e388	I tried to say that I do not believe that this debate on board education will be an election winner – either now or later. What tools does the teacher use when standing in front of a number of students and teaching, I don't think this has much to do with anything. As far as aesthetics are concerned, we have made proposals in Stortinget this period to introduce technology and design as a subject in high school – which I have the impression that the Council of State intends to follow up. So that's what we're concerned about. A closer link between aesthetics and more used technical subjects I believe is one of the success stories in Finnish school and is one of the basis for the success of Finnish business. So we're definitely for that. Then, like the Workers' Party, we have some ambitions in terms of more school hours in the long term, but we can't do that in 2012. When it comes to the cultural school, it's about letting cultural school hours eat out of school hours, which we unfortunately know is going on somewhere, and we don't think that's a right and a good development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e399	I would like to ask the representative about the Lektor 2 scheme, or the Lektor 2 scheme, which is a proposal mentioned in this position. Today, all the counties are represented in the Lektor 2 scheme. 134 schools are part of the scheme, which also includes 50 secondary schools. The Lecturer 2 scheme shall contribute to relevant, up-to-date and practical training in real science and implies that professionals from the workplace are directly involved in the teaching in areas where the teacher or the school sees this as an opportunity to increase the student's learning outcomes and interest in the subject. Since experiments are already being carried out with a Lektor 2 scheme in high school, does the representative see that it seems a little unnecessary to make proposals to stimulate experiments that are already being carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e404	I thank you for the question. The reason why we believe this to be important — it may not come out well enough in the mood — is that there will be increased relevance in schools. I want to take one example: we know that being away from high school is one of the most important reasons why you don't get an apprenticeship. We know that all Norwegian teachers — and probably most Norwegian parents — have told the student that if you don't get to school in the morning, you won't get a job when you grow up, and you don't get anything at school either. This has not worked. I believe that if you get Norwegian business leaders – or Norwegian professional candidates – to come to school, you can tell the students that it's actually like this in the real world that if you don't get up in the morning, you won't get any apprenticeship later. Therefore, we think it is important to keep an eye on this matter. Then we'd rather consider whether the scheme that's in place might need to be strengthened and continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e413	It struck me that the otherwise so outstanding representative Lien could hardly have followed in committee leader Marianne Aasen's posts, for then he had blacked off in the line change earlier, but enough about it. As is well known, schools are now open to provide vocational training as an important tool to provide students with a more practical and varied day of schooling. Some of the arguments are also to give the student insight and motivation to invest in vocational training later in careers. In that context, the entire committee, apart from the Progress Party, clearly stated that this should not go beyond the language discipline of the school. But there was too strong a diet for the Progress Party, because they couldn't agree with the wording that business and society's needs indicate that training in advanced languages is important. Does this mean that the Progress Party will encourage the elephants and parents to downgrade language skills in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e423	I tried to explain this in my article. The progress is very much for students with parents to make more choices. Such a choice may be the choice of a language course. Such a choice, we believe, should in the future be to be able to choose a career or make other educational choices. But we believe, unlike the majority, that it is important to focus on learning to write Norwegian enough. Forcing students to e.g. Taking other foreign languages does not necessarily strengthen the chances of these students mastering mother tongues and English, which we see as more important goals. Then we believe that there should be greater freedom of choice. The Labour Party disagrees. They want less freedom of choice than us – it's an honest thing. But it's not like we're going to reduce the possibility of choosing a language course in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e428	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e431	Thanks to the case rapporteur, who lost work on the message in the port in a good way, with the little time pressure we had before Christmas. It's a myth that high school is the forgotten stage. But the fact is that something went wrong with the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, since we cannot trace the changes a total increase joined in the spring of 2004, when the paper on Culture for Learning was dealt with. We need to learn from that. Therefore, it is wise that the secondary school notification should be accompanied by an implementation strategy. Then we can monitor the implementation, and we can avoid going into the same trap one more time. The right has criticised the Storing Message for not working properly. The government’s high school report follows up the renewal of the youth dimension as set out in the Knowledge promise, but the right considers that the measures do not go far enough or are obligatory enough. Based on research and experience following the promise of knowledge, the Right has promoted 20 proposals, either alone or with others. Our goal is to adapt training from the day one at a youth level, and to bet on highly qualified teachers should motivate the students for greater efforts. These are the main actions of the Right to reverse the trend of falling motivation through high school. At the same time, there are right-wing proposals to ensure that the new high school becomes a reality also for pupils in small schools. The right is pleased that 16 out of 20 proposals have received support from other parties. We have also noticed the signal that the government parties have asked for the proposal on grades in electoral matters to be sent to the government. We will meet that request for transmission. But we should like the government parties to support several of the proposals to ensure the renewal of high school. Motivation is fundamental to learning. Research has shown a falling motivation from the fifth grade, and the secondary school has not been able to justify this. This means that many students face a more demanding day at school without the necessary motivation to master new challenges. This trend must be reversed if the school is to be able to equip students with knowledge for further education and the working life they need later in life. On the right, the new director of the Education Directorate, ‘Teaching assessment — a teacher’s guide’, believes can give a motivational boost to the students. It is a good starting point that both the Education Association, the Student Organisation and the KS are behind the supervisor. Right wants to involve students and give them the opportunity to influence and change what is not working in teaching. Such participation can help to increase quality and enhance educational outcomes in schools. The right is therefore of the opinion that all secondary school students should have the same opportunity to evaluate education and that the supervisor should be used in all secondary schools in the country. Well-adapted training requires good student knowledge. Therefore, the Right will have a transition test in the 7th grade as introduced by Oslo. The test will provide the secondary school with valuable information on the professional level of the students. This means that high school teachers are given the opportunity to take action from the start for students who are otherwise at risk of losing further terrain professionally. I have noticed that the committee leader, Marianne Aasen, supported this in the campaign, but now has left that position. Right-wing believes it is necessary that the school is more open for some students to wear more than others, and that other students have the ability to move faster. The provision of the Training Act on adapted training applies to all students. For the PP service, which investigates students with problems, it is pointed out that the school is short on both these categories of students. If we are to avoid draining Norwegian classes of resources, more students need to receive a more adapted training offer, without time-consuming investigations and decisions on special education. The right considers that larger armsstrokes for schools in the organisation of education are a prerequisite for better success. No parties will implement the course syllabus of the past. On the other hand, the Right now believes that we need to think more about the intensive training of students who have lost the thread in one or more schools, following the pattern of the reading courses we already find in school. Rapid help that can get the students over the professional kneel, so they get on, is important to take care of their school motivation and important for their school outcomes. We have to avoid students giving up, which can be completely destructive for later learning. When this is the starting point, in the Right’s view, there is a need to implement the government’s New GIV measures earlier. The right proposes that new GIV measures against non-response, which are currently being introduced into the 10th class, should already be available in the 8th class for students at risk. The right also proposes to soften the training law §8-2, making it easier to adapt the teaching without getting on the edge of the law. Many look to Finland. The early intervention of the Finns means that the school is dealing with the problems of the students before it takes on a ball. This is likely to be the main explanation that the extent of special education in Norway is increasing with age, while developments are going the opposite way in Finland. Norway has three times as much special education at the 10th stage as at the 1st stage. It underlines the seriousness of the situation and the urgent need to have a reverse operation in this field. Good students who are not challenged enough can take their energy out on activities and develop behavior that seems destructive both to themselves and to the class. At the same time, these students shall be given the opportunity to take higher-level courses when that is right for them. Studies show that there is a wide variation between municipalities in such offers. In order to ensure a more equivalent offer, the Right considers that clarification of the law and the financial responsibility is required, and asks the Government to contribute to it. The right goes for the written examination in the three basic subjects of Norwegian, math and English. The aim is to be able to follow developments in the professional level of leaving students. Such a scheme will also be perceived by many students as more fair than today, where some are so lucky to get up in the favorite subject, others are not. At the same time, the exams create more seriousness in the game, and high school can gain more knowledge of the students before they take them over. The renewal of high school is about the whole school week having to be more engaging. Two elective hours cannot do the job alone. Most importantly, it is to ensure that teachers have the skills needed to be good teachers and good teachers. Involvement in methods such as entrepreneurship, among others Rakkestad secondary schools have done a great deal, and the development of thematic schools, such as the technology line at Hundsund secondary schools at Fornebu, has contributed to enthusiasm both at pupils and at teachers. Such experience must be built into the empowerment of teachers. We're going to bet on teachers and headmasters. The right considers that priority should now be given to the conversion of teacher training to a five-year master's course. Higher status shall attract more and better qualified applicants. Greater flexibility in PPU training can pave the way for other occupational groups to enter school. Teach First is another exciting recruitment measure that several schools should have access to. In the short term, continuing education is the key to implementing the message’s vision of a more relevant, motivating and varied secondary school. For this reason, the Right will have a higher implementation rate for teachers in the early stages of continuing education. The renewal of high school demands new skills, including: in the electoral field. In addition to enhancing the competence of today's teachers, the school must be able to play more actively on the skills of other professional groups and people with a background from the world of work, including: through a Teacher 2 scheme. Right-wing supports the introduction of electives which are given status through content that builds up in other schools and to boost motivation by allowing students to choose subjects that interest them. The right will have grades in elective subjects that count when admitted to higher education in the same way as the other subjects. In a globalised world, the right is also concerned that foreign languages are given a central place in the electoral service. Elections must not be a good thing for students at large schools, while students at smaller schools should be fed with few options. The right believes that the active use of ICT can expand the choice field. The same applies to introductions throughout youth at the same time in small schools. Cross-school choice is a third way to allow more people to meet their choice. At a time when the value of openness and democracy is more strongly emphasised than ever, the Right answer does not seem to be to obscure the training of democracy in school. We do not understand the position of the government parties, and have also noticed with interest that the Trond-Viggo Committee in its position Youth, power and participation just before Christmas has taken up a new, wide-ranging field of democracy in school. The right-wing opinion is that it may not be right to package, but to extract and raise relevant themes from other subjects in order to provide the pupil council with an expanded content. With this, I address the proposals from the Right and the proposals to which the Right co-rapporteurs have not previously been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e488	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the suggestions she mentioned. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e493	Today, we can read in the newspaper the following title: ‘Torpederes Halvorsen’s new electoral profession’. It says it’s reading, and it’s Torger Ødegaard, who is a school firm and decides a lot in Oslo School. It might as well have been said, 'Torpaging an overall decision on electoral matters'. My question is as simple as that: When the Right now wants and is very concerned about the electoral profession, and not least that there is no difference between young people who go to small schools in district municipalities, versus young people who go to large schools in urban municipalities, how does Right now suggest that the City Council of the Right in Norway's largest municipality has as its intention not to introduce electoral discipline?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e498	After all, they have to answer for themselves. But I understand that well, and I think the government actually has a big, formidable communication challenge when one of the most important measures in the big message is so unfinished that the school owners have to wait until March before they can see a curriculum, before they can start to form an image of what kind of subjects we should be able to put in, what kind of teacher competence it requires, and what sort of organization it requires. I believe that Torger Ødegaard is a responsible school politician who raises important questions in view of the lack of clarification, and he lacks information that is important to him. The right has made clear demands that there should be a demanding electoral profession, that there should be a content requirement, that there should be an assessment in them, that we should have qualified teachers also in the electoral fields, but none of these can be answered by the government at this time. I interpret today's wording so that there is great frustration out here and goes everywhere you don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e505	On the previous question, I just want to say that the representative from the Right has not called for the things that the school bureau in Oslo thinks he is missing. You might also see it as a criticism of the work of the representative from the Right on the Stortinget. But my question is related to what everyone knows, namely that the Right has an unwholesome love for tests and tests. It still surprises me that the Right is willing to introduce even more bureaucracy and theoretization in high school. The proposal for several primary and transitional examinations has not been raised by teachers, school managers, students or parents. My question then is whether this proposal has any support in thinking other than that carried out in the Right House.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e512	I note that we have major transition challenges in Norwegian school. I also note that those who are going to take over the students are currently missing key information in order to provide a good, customised training from day one. The measures proposed by the Right in connection with this Communication are intended to address the knowledge gaps and patch them to enable students to meet such a school, whether in grade 8 or in the first year of secondary education. Several leaving examinations are also about being more able to monitor the quality of the students leaving Norwegian school. It's most random today how we get it into, with great variation between the states in what kind of subjects students come up into. The students are also concerned, on the basis that they are applying further with their degrees, that there is an injustice in the fact that someone comes up in the subject they like best, while others come up in the subject they like the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e519	First choice: what Odegaard does in the newspaper today is not just what's in the headline. What Ødegaard does down in the newspaper text today is to reject electoral subjects on a principle basis: it will not contribute to increased motivation and better results. If the Right and Aspaker agreed with Ødegaard, it should have been written in the annotation form. Right hasn't done that. There is clearly a disagreement here. Either then, Odegaard has to go out and cancel it – maybe he does it in the newspaper tomorrow, I don't know about that – or right here on the Stortinget, he has to say that there's a disagreement in the Right. It's okay, but it's very interesting to know both for us and for everyone else. Secondly, a little bit about level differentiation: right is happy about it, cf. inter alia: proposal No 12 that's set up here today. But it's pretty unclear what the right is adding to the 'level differentiation'. The installation from Aspaker does not make that any more clear. Could right here cancel, maybe confirm, anything more?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e526	With regard to the electoral fields, none of us has seen the electoral subjects to be introduced in five to six months in Norwegian school. We can ask how responsible it is if we're concerned about quality in school. The right has always said – from day one – that we should have smart electives that build up in other disciplines, which have learning-supporting activities, so that students can also learn basic skills and basic skills through the electoral professions. I hope that the government will follow up, and I have also noticed that you are positive about giving grades in these subjects and giving them status in line with other subjects. So for customized training. The change we propose in Section 8-2, we propose to give a real content to everything talked about adapted training in Norwegian school. The truth today is that at the slightest change you want to make, you're going to run into it. We want New GIV to be available at any time in primary school for a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e535	If you are a little interested in the electoral profession, I can tell you that since the summer, there have been no suggestions on what types of electoral profession this is about. But I also know that the Right is very busy with resources, both money and time. The options will cost money, exams in three compulsory courses for all 10's will obviously cost a lot of money. Monitoring tests, compulsory for all 7th grade students, will obviously cost money and time. Student council work will obviously also cost money. Can the representative explain a little of both the time spent and the economic estimates you have made for the introduction of new examinations and screening tests?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e541	I think the government parties realize that there's a bad thing about abolishing the school board, at a time when there's a lot of talk about really supporting and supporting democracy education in school. It is also a little paradoxical to abolish one of the subjects where Norwegian students in international studies do the very best, and one of the areas that the party SV has at least highlighted very much. Then I can calm the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien: School is still going to be one of the very highest priority areas of the Right. We are committed to quality assurance at school, and we are going to provide funding for the measures we have put in proposals, but we are not getting a majority. But that's what we're going to get back to the day we get government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e548	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e551	As I have probably said many times earlier from this pulpit, I am pleased with the big messages and associated committee positions. They are strongly underestimated as scientific literature. They are often well - written and wisely written. They are very knowledgeable, and they are not least interesting as a kind of mood report – that is, written at a certain time, in a particular professional, administrative and political context. This big message and the corresponding committee position that we are presenting today are no exception. It tells readers what is meant by high school in 2011 and partly in 2012 — the history, the state of health today, and not least what ambitions government and big business have for high school in the future. As said from a number of previous years, as assessed by the current state of play, there is currently little political disagreement about knowledge, thematic content, organisation, learning methodology and funding in the field of secondary education. I said the same thing in the budget debate before Christmas, and I repeat it now. And to the extent that there is marked disagreement in this setting text, it actually goes as much on the past as on the future, cf. point 2.8. If we add up the number of dissenting comments -- and I actually got to 58 -- it might look like there's some disagreement here. But as always it's dangerous just to count when you're going to figure out the facts that count. For a comment that proposes that the Storting should ask the government to draw the attention of the municipalities to a counsellor published by the Education Directorate, there is not much opposition to this, nor in comments that go to local action rooms in the case of the electoral subjects. It is possible that the opposition goes a little bit further here, but at the same time the same opposition determines how important it is with exams in the same elective subjects. There can't be much disagreement here either. We have some comments that go on this with connection – a connection we are all engaged in – between primary and secondary schools, that it should be well connected. Everyone agrees, but the opposition has comments first in the attitude to co-locate high school and high school, and later in the setting that one will co-locate high school and high school. There won't be a lot of primary schools in this country again if we do it that way. Some of the comments are also marked by the internal disagreement between the individual opposition parties, for example: in the case of hours, or need — and it is very obvious not least when it comes to continuing training of teachers — to print their own primary position in a very detailed way. It's also not very oppositional, as in the overall sense. Or do I read the setting incorrectly? For indoors, there is a desire – still marked – from some opposition parties to introduce numerical characters, to increase the number of examinations, to more differentiation and to level-sharing. Note that one does not agree with the good wording of the majority to increase social skills, nor does one fully join up to, among other things. physical activity is to be stepped up into secondary school. So the question for us in SV – and I think for the government parties together – is whether what we see of these kinds of comments, more are the remnants of a blue knowledge policy, that there are almost survivors written in this text. Or is there more of a taste of what will come out in full flower if we get a government shift at the next election? I've been saying more of a desire to believe in the first, that it's so convincingly true what we're doing now under the current government, but I'm afraid that it's the last thing, that one of these purely tactical tones down their blue positions to bring them up again and let them bloom out too fully after the election is won. It is much the same as the Right's so far successful strategy in most policy areas. But the SV is anyway, what now future had to bring as a result of that kind of reflections, very pleased with this high school message. It shows a good direction, it marks a good pendulum turn towards a broader and more modern knowledge view, it marks a clear ambition for greater methodological diversity, it shows how much necessary and right it is to raise the status again for practical-esthetic subjects and regain equivalence between the academic, artistic and craftsmanship, and it is occupied with, not least, that it needs an entire society to make a good school. So this looks very good, not least if we now have good cooperation with the school owners, namely municipalities and county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e575	I want to ask you something that might not be very nice to talk about. There is a very broad consensus on the importance of homework, and that it is a very good offer to catch up with students who are struggling in some subjects. Although we get a varied and hopefully better high school now, there'll probably be a need for homework; I think we have to admit that. Many secondary schools had previously offered educational assistance in the early stages, but after the introduction of homework from the 1st to the 4th grade, many schools have had to reduce the supply at the youth level for economic reasons. Is it, then, to understand that SV believes that child-care care is what is beneficial and that is needed for the student to master the rest of the school, or does SV eventually see that the schools themselves are best placed to assess and decide where to put the help, so that the students get the best and the most benefit from the help?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e584	I am very pleased with the opposition's comments on homework in high school. I think it's right that we get homework here in the long term, both in the ordinary, traditional way, and also by playing with resources in the community, on the outside of high school. So I think it's a little bit small and defensive that we're going to realize this by taking the little thing we've put in for homework in high school. Because we're going to think that the first lesson aid is to put homework in the right sense of the word. In addition, it is inside of this that we get one hour of SFO in place, which I think many parents are happy about. So let's have ambitions to realize both. We take care of and further develop what is already going on in high school, and then we put in good ambitions for high school, that in school – alone or together with the community of which the school is part – it becomes a good educational activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e593	I understand that the representative Aksel Hagen calls for greater ideological differences in the school debate and believes that the opposition should make much more ideological marks, for example. in the examination of this issue of youth. Then it is interesting to record that the party SV is on full ideological retreat in at least two important issues. One relates to the resistance to level differentiation, where it has been used to help the weakest students, through the New GIV project in the 10th grade, and now, lastly, where the SV parliamentary leader calls for the coercion of municipalities, adopted in Stortinget, and where, in a debate earlier here in Stortinget, the minister of knowledge has said that one of her greatest concerns is how small municipalities should be able to follow up their schools as school owners. Does the representative Aksel Hagen share the view that it is now right to apply level differentiation through New GIV, and that small municipalities have a challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e600	First of all, this thing with level differentiation: beyond the hard core, which is opposed to each other in these school debates, I think it's very difficult to follow through on our level differentiation debate. As far as I am concerned, I am very pleased that the Council of State has taken the initiative to clarify what kind of opportunities lie in the law. SV, both in the past and today, believes that it is right for time-limited periods, for very specific reasons, to be able to do some division of the student group, as an exception to achieve things, but without derogating from the general rule. As far as municipal structure is concerned, there is a very exciting debate, in which I believe all parties, possibly with the exception of the Left, have put themselves on a line that is largely voluntary. I think that's also the right point of view by date. So we see that there are different things in the different parts of that question. I'd like to discuss that another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e607	The representative was in his post concerned about whether there was any decision or position that had been sunk down to later let them bloom up. Then my question to the representative Hagen is whether there are any decisions and positions that SV has let go of. Because I have to say that it is with amazement that I read that SV supports that the electives should now be given equal status with other subjects, and that you should get grades that should be included in the assessment for secondary education. I can't quite agree with the SV's position on grades in general, because they have had a restrictive attitude to use grades as an instrument. So now you agree to this for the electoral subjects, which should be involved and provide a practical ‘air space’ at school. Can the representative explain whether there is a flowering that has now happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e612	It is possible that I personally exorcise, but I don't think that SV's school policy is flourishing! [[Laughter]] This is an exciting debate, right? On the one hand, we want all the electoral skills well. Then some of the arguments to put in place grades/assessments also in these subjects are that they should have the same status as the other subjects. So, it's wrong to give choice a different assessment and some other conclusions on the character/assessment issue than the other subjects. It's going to be the same thing as other subjects. With regard to the big character and assessment debate, rather we, and I, continue to that numbers are a relatively simplified way of reporting back – I’m not going to say foolishly, because I’ve said that before and got a little arrested for that. If individual life is to get good descriptions of how he or she stands professionally, and high school will also get good information about the individual student, I believe more in text and the oral rather than numerical characters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e621	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e625	First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Stortinget finally receives a separate report on the high school. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly raised the need for changes to be made to high school. Youth has been forgotten in many ways in the major political debate. It is in childhood and secondary school that the effort has been put in. Teaching in high school is often too theory-intensive, and there are many major challenges associated with fighting and unrest. There's reason to believe that these are things that continue to propagate and lead to a dramatic high drop-out rate in high school. Therefore, the overall objective must be to make secondary school a master arena for children and young people through more practical work and practical theory — and not least the allocation of resources. The message focuses on the importance of being seen and confirmed. That's good, because there's a need for empowerment and attitude change in students who are struggling with school. The purpose paragraph reads as follows: ‘Students and learners shall develop knowledge, skills and attitudes to master their lives and to participate in work and community life. They shall derive creative pleasures, commitment and exploration.’» It is important to increase the efforts for social skills in order to equip students to create a good society. This believes the Christian People's Party must permeate all training. I am pleased that the government is now following up the previous proposals of the Christian People's Party to re-establish the electoral profession in high school. However, I disagree with the strong governance of the choice subjects to be offered and how to design them. We want greater flexibility in which choices the individual school chooses to offer locally. In each school and in the local community around the schools, there is a great deal of expertise that can benefit from to offer different choices. We are therefore proposing to call on the government to make local adjustments to the choice courses to be offered at each school. With the introduction of the electoral profession and a more practical schooling day, I believe that the profession of work could be a positive alternative to 2nd foreign languages for those who want it. However, there is a need to look at the labour market, especially in the context of vocational education and training choices, but also in relation to choice and entrepreneurship. During the consultation, the YS stated that there are trends in overlaps in both content and objectives of these subjects, but that there is a clear link that should be made clear in order to achieve the maximum impact of these subjects. We therefore propose to ask the government to look at the relationship between the subject of education selection and the subject of employment and to assess whether this can be combined into one subject, where a few hours are made compulsory for all students, and a few hours are offered as an alternative to the second foreign language. I also disagree with the proposal to remove the subject of student work. The 2010 International Study on Democracy, ICCS – International Civic and Citizenship Education Study, shows that Norwegian students’ knowledge of, and attitudes to, democracy and citizenship are well compared with students in the 38 other countries participating. I believe this is linked to a well-developed student democracy in the schools. Instead of removing the subject, we should focus more on ensuring that the Boards of Students have real opportunities for participation and further develop the system of student representatives in the school's governing bodies. I agree with the objective of renewing the youth stage so that teaching becomes more practical in all subjects. However, it is not enough just to adopt such an objective, it is necessary to take concrete action to achieve this. The teacher is the most important single factor in the renewal of high school. If the subjects are to be more practically directed by the students, we depend on teachers who have the necessary and sufficient skills to achieve this. It is therefore essential that relevant and systematic continuing training is now provided in this area. It is also important for me to point out the need for coherence between the different requirements that are now being set up for teachers in the early stages and the new training of teachers. Without having a link between teacher training and adult education, the measures we are now talking about today will have no effect. I think it is great that we have such a great deal of agreement, but I still find it sad that the government has not been willing to look at any of the proposals made by the other parties. I take up with this the proposals that the Christian People's Party has with others, or alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e658	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e663	I believe that the entire KUF Committee is happy in the field of work and education and believes that they need further processing. They are important in themselves, and they represent both issues that we want to strengthen in high school – first, that students get a link to the working life earlier than the pupils/youth often get today, and second, that we get to focus even more on the difficult transition between high school and high school, so that the wiser educational choices in high school are made. The representative explained why he merged the two subjects. I believe that the spirit of the high school message is almost going in the opposite direction – that we should strengthen both of these subjects, because there are really two different things: first, to focus on education and, secondly, on the proximity of working life, which one has in the field of employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e670	For the Christian People's Party, it's been important that when you're going to take an educational choice, it's just to get out of work. That's why I believe that some of the objective is both to give an experience in which profession you're going to choose and the consequences for which education you're going to take to end there, and that we might have been able to see if there's such a lot of overlap that you could add this to a larger common subject. I think it's an interesting thought, and I should like the government not to leave it entirely on the shelf, but so that both education and work experience are related. Maybe we can go along with it and take away some of the a little unnatural distinction you have by choosing a professional, and someone chooses education. We might get more people to choose from across the two groups by seeing these subjects together with entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e680	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e683	It's good that we've got a high school report, and there's a lot of consensus about many of the grips, sail if I'm not absolutely certain that we've managed to create instruments that are related to the goals that the committee and the council of states have set themselves. The basis we lay here, is about apostasy and the ability of young people to succeed, but it is also about this being a school battle that has become dangling among many others in political development. Then we know what I think is the core, and that was what I asked the Labour Party representative, but he did not understand. And that explains to me a lot about why you didn't understand that question. I want to hang on to what the representative of the Christian People's Party said, which had a very good post. The challenge with regard to secondary education is the need for practical correction, a variation in education. You need another way of working. Those who work on it are the teachers. It's the teachers who have to do that job. It's the teachers who have to go through that change and find the way to work. The most important way we politicians have to achieve that goal is to give teachers more support on how to work with the different subjects. That's why it's under here that the most important thing for us would be that we had received both continuing and five-year teacher training, got to a depression and gave those teachers a ballast—the ones who are in it, and actually carry out what we're actually saying here that we want to get. I've visited schools that try this with work, and it's impressive work done by many teachers. But I get a little bit of concern when I ask the students why they chose it. All of the students I've asked why they've chosen a career have answered me: it's because I have dyslexia. That means that the recruitment of this might be about something other than what we want it to be about. When we know that there are up to ten times more special education for this group than what is given to first-class students, it says something about our challenge to turn the pyramids into Norwegian schools. There's a lot I want to talk about. I'll talk about school health services, counselling and stuff like that later, but I want to say something about the magic of the electoral professions. For all of us who were children in the 1980s, and who remember extremely well what choices we had, there's something about the magic of the electoral professions that I'm afraid we're actually losing with the way we do it here. The magic of the election subjects in my secondary school is about teachers who ran around during the free minute and tried to recruit as much as possible to their subject, because then something happened. Only you got 15 pieces, it became something of my "discipline". It turned the pyramids in school. Suddenly we agreed to decide whether or not it would be one of the subjects in which the teacher wanted to teach, and that was a completely different situation than that in any other subject in any other part of the school. What I'm afraid of now is that we're narrowing so much into the number of subjects, that we're making them so centralized that you're not going to find one teacher who runs around in the free minute and wants 15 pieces to his/her subject to get it done. I believe that the drive that has been found by many teachers to develop subjects, the innovation in pedagogics and the innovation in the working methods that existed in the old electoral fields will disappear with as strong central management as we see here. This is a real disagreement in dealing with this matter, whether you want to have it centralized, character-driven, determined in the department according to teacher plans and everything, or if you want the magic that existed in the old electives to continue. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party are in complete agreement: we should find that magic, because it's the magic that helps many students to experience the challenges of school by giving them the sense of mastery in other areas. With that, I will address the proposals on which the Left is involved and on which we are alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e696	Then the representative Trine Skei Grande brought up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e701	Choices are exciting – cf. that this is now being consulted, and we're going to put something in place there, and then this is going to be put into practice. I don't quite understand Trine Skei Grande's attack on us, that we're so very square and centralized in our approach. Of course, it says the following: ‘However, the majority will underline the need for a high degree of local freedom in the design of the electoral professions.’ I cannot at my best understand that there is a dramatic difference between the opposition and the position on this question, as this is formulated in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e713	It is possible to strive for a great deal of local freedom, but it is not possible for teachers who get an incredibly good idea to develop a new subject, for teachers who actually have their own driving force in trying to get a new way of working, for teachers who might want to try out a subject where it doesn't fit to set grades. We also want those spaces of action back in the electoral fields. We think the polls will lose their value if this is just a sandwich list that someone can choose from for a few extra subjects. The choice course shall be different from an additional course in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e718	At first I want to say that I have also been to a lot of schools that have a work experience, and I don't think I have met anyone who has said that they have chosen this because of dyslexia. But I've heard them say that they choose it because they're going to be farmers, gardeners, run with kids, etc. Now to a proposal that the Left is in favour of. It is that all secondary schools should offer at least one second foreign language. But there is already a second foreign language on the agenda, and the proposal on the electoral profession is to give an offer that is not on today's agenda. Does anyone with this mean offering a third foreign language? And how does the representative want to solve the challenge in smaller schools if all secondary schools are to offer at least one second foreign language among the electoral professions, a third foreign language? Does the representative want the second foreign language, or a third foreign language, to take precedence over the electoral offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e726	That proposal is linked to some other proposals that lie here. We want to use new technologies to offer other subjects. We in the Left would probably have had a mandatory second foreign language into school, but for us it is also important to look at the possibility that all the kids who have a native language at home who are not the same as their school language should be able to gain competence in their home language. For all the kids who are bilingual, it is important to increase the possibility that that language can also be a language that they can take as an optional subject and perhaps get real skills and papers on — in addition to using it when talking to your mother.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e731	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e734	This is a rather historic day for fourteen, because it is the first time since the youth stage was introduced, that the Stortinge treats a message that is just about them. The reason why we do this is that in recent years we have seen that the motivation among students in Norway is falling from the fifth stage and is never as low as the 10th stage in secondary school, and because we see that we have a huge amount of work we can get to get up the motivation and apprenticeship right in these crucial years that not only shape people but also lay the basis for what kind of career choices you should take on and for what you stand at the forefront of higher education. We had a choice when we discussed what to do with youth and the motivation of youth. Should we put down a public sample, should we wait a year or two until there was an adjustment and then go the entire round that we know is very time consuming? Or should we simply immediately get in direct contact with those who wear the shoe, hear what they themselves thought was the challenge in high school, and see what we could do with it? We chose the last, because every year in a young person's life can be very crucial in motivation and development. That is why we have had direct contact with approx. 3,000 different people plus organisations. I've had students from all the counties of the country to something we've called Kristin's class, where they've put their own words on what they want the high school to be. Representatives of parents have been present, and teachers have also made recordings. I have to say that I think it has been incredibly funny and motivating as a minister of knowledge to have all these meetings and discuss, because students at high school have not come to the Ministry of Knowledge and demanded a more relaxed school. They have not come with the desire to be allowed to play Ludo or do something dull for a few hours so that they survive. They have come because they want a more varied, motivating, demanding high school that is closer to what they see they may need later, and they are calling for the extra small spark that everyone knows makes you stretch beyond what you might think you could do in advance, namely, study and learning. I want to thank all the students, teachers and parents who have contributed opinions and suggestions. We've captured them, and they're now turned into a big message so we can get started quickly on changing high school. I hear from researchers and educators that this is the first school change where you go from constantly making the school more academic to making it more practical in their approach. I believe that the right concepts to use are «academic» and «practical», not «theory» and «non-theory», even though we often talk in the public mouth about things being too heavy for theory. But there are many ways in which to get theoretical knowledge. It is not achieved simply by reading or hearing. It is also achieved by working into it and asking for the knowledge you need. So this is a youth message that emphasizes that you need to work more practical, varied and motivating. There have been no practical orientated students who have called for a more practical approach. All students have come and wanted a more practical, varied, interesting and motivating high school. Here, there is a strong desire from all students to be able to work with greater breadth and demand for the sense of mastering that makes one grow, and a demand for being able to allow interest to control what one is doing a little more. The central curriculum was changed in 1997. Then the electoral professions disappeared as a concept from the central curriculum. At that time, we had over 200 different choices in Norway, and many of them were characterized by food and just food. We've thought differently about electoral matters when we introduce them. Now we're making draft curricula for the electoral subjects. Their hearing period expires on 16 March. We've picked skills goals from several subjects to put them together, but there'll be a great deal of local opportunities to vary within the curricula that are. For example, it will. be able to produce goods and services, to create an entrepreneurial enterprise that does so, and it will, for example: be possible to produce something entirely concrete, practical, in the craft tradition. But it can also be services. I see that some in the committee are calling for social entrepreneurship, or social services, to be part of it. Well, such a course could contain both. The same applies, for example: putting up a play, a piece of music, or a show, or making a video. It'll be one and the same arrangement in relation to the curriculum, but with great variation. What's important now is to use your local skills to get a good electoral profession going. Eligibility is one part of the proposed changes in secondary education. Two other important grips are at least equally important. One is a greater degree of flexibility in trade and hour distribution. There is a question that is now going to be sent out to the hearing and discussed with School-Norway. The second is that we need to work more effectively and in all disciplines – not least in Norwegian, reading and billing/mathematics. For we see – point one – that the boys have some significant challenges in reading and writing. And we have – point two – in general, as a society, a challenge in mathematics, because there are too many students leaving high school with far too bad knowledge in account, and there are too many at the first level in high school who are ironing out in math. In order to achieve this — both the electoral profession and working with greater flexibility and more practical and relevant training in all disciplines — we depend on one success factor, and that is the teacher. That is why, for the first time, we need to follow up a big message with an implementation strategy. It shall last more than five years. We're not just going to give a big message that we've been dealing with in the department, and to which the Storting joins, and then let it go and send it out with good wishes. We're going to follow up on what's the main concept of youth education, so we're absolutely sure that we're reaching all schools. In particular, school-based classroom management training is crucial to this. It's a core point, and we're now driving and preparing. Now that the Storting agrees with this, we can start to put that implementation strategy into practice. This means that we should cooperate with all municipalities and schools – the whole of School Norway – just to get this message to be not only good wishes that are read up from the Storting Speech Chair, but to something that actually leads to change. It's a new way to pursue central school policy – we're much closer. In this, we're going to learn from the experience we have from New GIV. In connection with the New GIV, we have one project that includes an offer for those who have a great knowledge gap when they arrive at Christmas in the 10th grade, students that we see are going to have trouble completing advanced education. That offer goes to 4,000 students this year. We trick teachers in both Norwegian and billing to get to this, and they work in a more practical and varied way. We get very good feedback on this. The big challenge now is that we take that competence with us – not because we're going to wait for the students to come to Christmas in the 10th grade, but because we want to work like this from day one in high school, and much more varied. Then my hope is that we can get to it in such a way that all students can benefit from it, that even those students that we do not reach today through the New GIV will have a strong desire to work more practical, relevant and concretely, perhaps especially in mathematics. We have gone through the discussion about research in the big news, summarizing what we have about level differentiation. It's a very clear settlement with those who think level differentiation gives us the answer and more learning. We left the syllabus in our time because too many students learned too little. There is a need for adapted education, a varied education, which reaches all pupils, but we are not served with a level differentiation that forces some students to make pre-vocational choices from the age of 12 to 13. This research is collected in the Storing Communication, and it is a very systematic and good review of the fact that level differentiation is a recipe for more learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e766	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e769	I have to admit that I think the Council of State opened up a lot better than she did, especially when she says that the forties – as she calls it – do not want a more relaxed school. I hope that the Council of State remembers when she is going to start her important work of following up on this. There has been a lot of talk about level-sharing education today, and this message concludes with a unanimous increase that it's okay, but the majority believe that this by bringing up those who for nine and a half years have had failed learning outcomes, is going to happen in the last six months of a ten-year education. It is a bit as if the Council of State Berg-Hansen were to establish a marine rescue service that only reacted when a ship had lost its life. What is it that makes it quite okay to divide levels after nine and a half years at school, while there is clearly a need to legislate a ban on doing the same after, for example, doing the same thing. eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e781	We will provide a separate guide on how to understand the provisions on level-sharing in the Training Act. But what's my goal is not to have a high school where some students have to be taken out of the ordinary education because they need a special set-up in Norwegian and mathematics, as New GIV actually does. We have New GIV as an offer because we don't want to sit still and see that someone starts high school with so much knowledge that we know they're going to have trouble implementing. Our goal must be that these students meet the way to work much earlier — from day one in high school, and not necessarily on the outside of what the other students are doing, but as part of it. If there is a need to group students in periods, there is a need to open them up, without breaching the Training Act or being level differentiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e786	I still don't understand this. For example, what's okay in the last six months, is not okay in the last year, I don't understand. I think some of these students might need some more time. But then there's something I obviously must have misunderstood, because I thought we agreed that what we didn't need in any part of Norwegian school was lower ambitions for what the council called the theoretical level of knowledge. I've always believed when we've been dealing with this, that what we did was to make it easier for us to use school practice to get students to learn more academic theory and give them more knowledge. But now the case rapporteur started by saying that we should also recognise practical skills. I agree that they should also be recognised. But can the Council confirm that this communication does not contain any lower ambitions for academic achievement in Norwegian high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e791	Yes, this Communication contains increased ambitions across the entire spectrum — both for practical access to learning, for academic access to learning and for increased learning pressure throughout high school. By increasing motivation, learning ability and apprentices, we can raise the learning pressure and ensure that more people have a better basis for doing secondary education. My approach to this is that even those who are theoretically strong and academically interested, through the electoral profession, will have the opportunity to follow that line a little bit more. It's not level differentiation, it's custom training. But many will also acquire theoretical knowledge through a practical introduction in a better way. This will lead to a more varied, more inclusive, more ambitious high school where more students can reach longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e796	Norwegian school has a formidable challenge in adapting training for all students. The more we talk about customised training, the greater the proportion of students covered by special education, because that percentage has increased steadily. In addition, the motivation of the students is falling. It is understandable when you meet the wall professionally and do not get help until everything goes on, much too long. Does the Council of State see that there may be a link between the increase in special education and the lack of room for action for school to conduct targeted, customised training? Does the Council of State think that today's §8-2 is what the school owners need to do in order to be able to carry out specific follow-up of students who really need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e803	We're going to provide a guide on this very question related to §8-2, which is therefore about the debate on level differentiation that we've now been discussing. I am absolutely sure that we have a lot left to reverse the use of resources in special education, which is now increasing through the school years, is the highest on the 10th stage and the lowest on the 1st stage. It has been the theme of the big story that Stortinget dealt with just before Christmas, about special education. There are spaces within what is today's law to get to the adapted training. I have a strong desire that when we get to a more varied high school, there will also be more people who experience mastery in that high school, and that we can meet in several ways – without initially being special education, but more varied ways of working at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e810	I'm gonna change the theme. It concerns the introduction of the electoral professions. The Council of State has just stood on the platform and said that the consultation period for the new vocational plans expires on 16 March. So they have to be determined. Then it's less than four months to school. If you are concerned that this should not be a cosefic, it should be a demanding subject, a subject that should have a content, and where you are to recruit learning forces that have the skills to teach in these subjects, then everyone understands that this presents local politicians with an incredible dilemma, because it is not the government that is to introduce the electoral subjects. It is the local school politicians who are given responsibility and who get this ball caught. Does the Council of State recognize that you are legally late? And in what way will you follow up the school owners with information that allows them to pick up teachers for these subjects – if you are concerned about being qualified teachers, and that it should be quality from day one?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e818	We don't have much time. I'm sure here that if we hadn't started this fall by introducing the eighth stage electoral profession that we're already doing, the disappointment in Youth School-Norway would have been enormous. There are an incredible number of people out there who now want to throw themselves over this and start the introduction. That's point one. Yes, I am absolutely sure that the disappointment would have been much greater than the practical challenges we have in implementing this. So I have to say one thing: if that's how the Right believes that this is going too fast, then here and now, today, you're proposing to postpone this. That proposal is not there. Then I just have to say that in the Right there is total confusion about the electoral profession. Right-hand school office in Oslo wants to boycott or not introduce electoral discipline. Right on the Stortinget, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, with which one sits in the City Council in Oslo, introduces electoral subjects here today. I have not understood that the Right believes that it is optional for the municipalities to introduce it, we oblige the municipalities to introduce it. Nor would the Right would have fulfilled such an application from Oslo. In the Right, there's complete confusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e825	I want to start with the options and the opportunities for local adaptation. I think one of the differences in this is that in the other subjects, the curriculums are made locally, while in the electoral fields, one has decided to make centrally implemented curricula. Some of those who have been presented by the first eight who have now been sent out to the hearing have a rather narrow possibility of using only the heading to create their profession, for example. Production of information, where it says: ‘Students shall create and operate an online school newspaper.’ It doesn't give much room for local creativity, or look at how communities are built up, what will be important to do in Kristiansand in relation to, for example, in Åseral, where there will probably be different needs and different opportunities to do so. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the curricula can also be drawn up locally in these fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e837	What we are now proposing is not the introduction of new courses in school. The choices we propose to introduce have competence objectives from different disciplines. I can't believe that there's no good way – what to say – to shape a school newspaper online, as it is, in a Christian-Sandic way, if there's Christian-Sandic news to cover. A work title we have is production for hall and stage. It could be a concert, it could be a revision, it could be ballet, it could be theater, it could be everything that comes with lighting and sound and all sorts of things, and it could be the production of a video. Within each of these options, there will be a wide range of options that can be found locally. And you have to look for the skills you already have at school when designing the electoral skills. We've started with eight, but we still have more to go on. It is simply because we know that there can be many proposals on new electives will... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e844	The President asks the Council of State to deal with the measured speaking time, otherwise it will be notified to the House.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e847	I have such a good man, President, so I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e852	The Council of State has now presented a communication in which she has great ambitions to change teaching, and all of this is for teachers to do. That's what I was talking about in my post. What I'm going to ask is about the support device around, which gives teachers time to be teachers. One of the important things, especially in high school, about which the Left has been concerned, and which we're a little surprised that the government doesn't take up – because it happens, when you make good suggestions, that after a couple of years, the government starts to see that massaging from the opposition becomes annoying and tries to do a little to meet us – is school health service, to have wise, well-trained health professionals who can talk about the difficult things about being a teenager, which is about all the difficult choices and the difficult things that can happen at home when you're a teenager. Having a good school health service is important to enable teachers to do their job as teachers. Why is this not important to the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e861	I totally agree with Trine Skei Grande. There are actually as many as 20 pst. by high school students who say they have mental disorders in a very different sense. Many teachers spend a lot of time following individual students, and there may be individuals who need to talk to someone other than those who are teachers about some difficult questions. So this is a question that is a cooperation between us and the Ministry of Health, and a budgetary question and a recruitment question. But I have an absolute ambition to improve the health care of my youth. I am absolutely sure that it would have a great impact on how to work constructively at school. [[The glass of water to the council falls on the floor.]] Otherwise, as far as time usage is concerned, I would like to invite the representative, Trine Skei Grande, to take a look at Oslo. The left is in town council with the Right in Oslo. I'm very surprised at some of the signals coming from there, and they have time to save with a little bit more time spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e868	The cord shift is over. The President is pleased that the Council of State is cleaning up after itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e873	I have, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e878	A Chinese saying says, "The teachers open the door, but you have to go in yourself." While we know that the teachers are the most important factor in the students' learning outcomes, the Chinese saying illustrates how much depends on self-help and motivation. You'd have to. You have to do it. You have to have the opportunity to implement. That's exactly why the big news about the secondary school is called Motivation – Mestring – Possibilities. By meeting the students halfway, listening to their needs, organizing, but at the same time making demands and meeting each one with great expectations, we are making it possible to learn as much as possible. It must be our goal – for all students – whether they have weak skills at school, or are highly skilled. I am particularly pleased that the high school report places so much emphasis on getting the basic skills in place through practical exercises. As Aristotle said: "What we have to learn before we can do that, we learn that by doing it." One of the means of achieving this is choice. It's an instrument that's retarded among the students. It gives them the opportunity to have influence over their own everyday school life, which you know can be significant both for motivation and for learning outcomes. Then I have to say that the Right's indeterminate approach to the electoral profession has been quite entertaining. The school bureau in Oslo has said that he does not want more choice. He also said: ‘An introduction to the new electoral profession will be to lower the ambitions on behalf of the students and the nation.’ Storting representative Nikolai Astrup said for some time back on social media – the website Twitter: ‘The most important thing is to learn to read, write and calculate says Halvorsen. This is why she wants to introduce the electoral profession in high school. Hm.’ Astrup clearly signals that he does not believe that the electoral profession will contribute to better basic skills. Today, Torger Ødegaard announces that he will commit himself strongly to prevent the students in Oslo School from learning about the new electoral subjects. Someone might say it's petty. I'd rather ask Oslo's school bureau to do their job and make sure that the students learn to read and write before they get to their childhood. It is striking that the proportion of capital students below the critical limit in reading in the 5th class is still above 20 pst. Despite too much talk, we see little action at the Right in Oslo, second a symbolic attack on government school policy. Also Right-leader Erna Solberg has pronounced himself distrust of the electoral profession: ‘Two hours of ceramics do not help with the problems they have for all other hours.’ No, but that's not the point either. Not the ceramics offered, and not the electoral profession is meant to solve all the problems in school. However, the electoral professions should raise the skills of students by making clear demands on the subjects that are linked to concrete curriculum objectives. Government parties also want students to have grades in the electoral fields. It shows that electives are to be taken seriously both by students and by teachers. It has become clear to the right centrally, and they have come after the government parties in this matter. We appreciate that. There are new rates from the Right. Because until now, the only electoral subject that the Right has been clear that they want to be is side-by-side. They have national decisions on that. In practice, this means a weakening of the Norwegian profession, not least training in new Norwegian, which in many cases is the cross-target in question. I have to add that it is a bit funny that the right does not mention this in the comments in the setting – again an example that the right means a lot about many, practises a bit and goes into obscurity with itself. This management of a system that students enjoy, namely the electoral professions, is a very good illustration of the Right's knowledge point of view. It is narrow and narrow, gray and dry. The more sad, the better for learning, you'd think. It's very bad with youth senses, which are colorful and lively, curious and prolific. We have to take young people seriously. We have to meet them halfway, with high expectations and ambitions about their learning, but also with certainty that different young people learn in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e922	Finally, there is a growing awareness of changes in secondary education. The Party considers that many of the measures contained in the notification could and should have been implemented long, long time ago. We want so much with school, but we just don't get it. That being said, there is also a lot that works and is good for the students. However, school results show that there is a great need to make changes which mean that training becomes more practical and varied. Students who acquire knowledge through more practical and varied teaching will be more motivated and thus reap greater benefits. This Communication, on which there is a broad political consensus, proposes many measures to correct what is not working according to the intention of reform 94 and reform 97. The aim of the reforms was for all students to attend the same school and have the same subjects. The idea here was that almost everyone should gain study competence, and thus the school became too theorizing too many. In addition, the students were given ‘accountance for their own learning’, a responsibility that many of them actually were not adults enough to take. On 15 November last year, Research.no presented a doctoral thesis on responsibility for her own learning, written by Aud Toril Meland, first amanuensis at the University of Stavanger, which showed that only one third of the students she studied were able to take responsibility for her own learning. This was one of the issues addressed by the Progress Party in the context of the reporting process. Art. No. 18 for 2010–2011, as we also see it quite naturally is seen in the context of this message, Meld. Art. No. 22 for 2010–2011. Chapter 7 of this message highlights, inter alia: the importance of good class management and one of the features of good class management states: ‘The teacher will focus on developing students’ learning strategies.’ This ends with the Progress Party, but we will underline the students' need for guidance and support in their own learning. If we want students who may not have parents who have the knowledge to get the necessary help at home, and to balance social inequalities between students, then the guidance, follow-up and feedback culture must be followed up much more strongly than today. An expression that is often used for students is that they are either theoretically good or intellectually weak. This is an expression that I'm not very excited about. I think it's an expression that makes many students already initially professionally weak, and that can lead to them becoming school losers. Most students have the ability to, for example: learning mathematics, but some need to use more practical methods to understand and acquire knowledge. There are actually examples of students learning math through music education, where they have a completely different understanding of numbers than they have received through ordinary theoretical instruction. That's why the Progress Party is very positive that we get these electoral skills. But, once again, if the students get the most knowledge according to their own abilities and assumptions, is very dependent on the teacher's competence in the subject and the teacher's ability to disseminate the subject in a way that preserves both the students who acquire knowledge through theoretical teaching, and the students who learn best through practical teaching. The Progress Party is in favour of a unanimous committee stressing the need for relevant and more practical education in all subjects, although we believe that far more teachers should receive continuing training than the government has provided. Therefore, the Progress Party also proposes that teacher training be converted into a five - year master’s program with emphasis on professional immersion. I want to remind you again that we can acquire the same knowledge, but since we're so different, we need different methods to achieve this. For this reason, the Progress Party believes that schools need to be given increased room for action for differentiation in education. As the Progress Party sees it, this Communication takes a necessary settlement with parts of what did not work after the introduction of Reform 97. The 2004 Research Council evaluation report and the criticism of reform 97 and curriculum 97 that emerged there have been largely followed, but the most important thing remains to be done, and it is to be implemented in school. If not, this message will be only good wishes and not reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e947	With this big message, the government is taking important steps to renew Norwegian school. This is an important part of the government’s overall goal of renewing, improving and strengthening the Norwegian welfare community. Many in this room have long pointed to high school as the forgotten step. We've focused on early efforts, we've taken action in high school to reduce the high rate of dropout, but we also know that the results of high school are very important in order for individuals to be able to complete high school education and have the opportunity to follow their dreams. Some important steps are that we now increase freedom of choice, increase flexibility and lay the foundation for good class management in order to strengthen the learning environment. An important proposal is also the introduction of the electoral profession. Torger Ødegaard, who has been the Right for the past few years to learn about school, unfortunately, seems to want to put the heads in the wheels of the Oslo School students, according to today's newspaper. Oedegaard is probably a type of politician who bases the following analysis on his school policy: if it comes from the government, it's wrong. Now it looks as if he has also convinced Aspaker during the day, which now suggests that it may be irresponsible to introduce the electoral profession despite the fact that she herself is in a position to recommend it. It's going to be exciting to see what's going on beyond. It is obvious that Torger Ødegaard has great power in the Right when he can only change the whole view of the Right Storing Group within a few hours with a newspaper post. The choices will help to make the school more exciting and will challenge the high school on how to use practice as an input to strengthen theoretical skills, while also providing an opportunity to experience mastering, creating and engaging in entrepreneurship. The right and the other right parties often talk about the A4 school – the common school – where everything is equal, and where everything is so boring and boring. The truth is that all the exciting new proposals proposed in this Communication are largely taught by Norwegian school and the new crime that is taking place in many places. I almost think the right parties should apologize to School-Norway for the one-sided way they often talk about the school. Practical learning is not necessarily about making a small wooden figure or turning a bicycle on. It is also about solving practical tasks — problem-based tasks — which are multi-disciplinary, where students are challenged to find solutions by using knowledge from several disciplines or by simulating reality, and let students understand how knowledge is acquired is useful in real life. For example, many people experience this. when starting a professional course, where the best schools and teachers arouse the interest of students by bringing education close to reality. It's motivating. Clay P. Bedford, who may not be so familiar in Norway, but who was assistant secretary of defense production in the United States and a pioneer in getting technology into the classroom, has said that you can teach a student a lesson by day, but if you learn him by creating curiosity, he will continue the learning process as long as he lives. For me, this is a lot about practical examples and challenges for the students. Many of the proposals for the curriculum for elective subjects are also good in describing links with other subjects. This means that these subjects do not need to become small, practical islands in a theoretical school day, but on the contrary contribute to making the whole school everyday more exciting for everyone. Schools that manage to work differently are moving with everyone. They like to have a clear structure. Professor Dylan Wiliam says that effective schools provide efficient classrooms. The working party was recently on a visit to the Ringstabeck where they have a clear educational culture where new teachers are integrated into the culture and where they have the training of new teachers throughout the year where everyone gets to participate in a multidisciplinary team. I'm not saying that you necessarily have to do it like that, but this is safe and sound for the teachers -- they're part of a community, everyone knows where they want and where to go, and you share experiences to seek and achieve a common goal. The government also has a clear implementation strategy. It's important. It is important that everyone at school — all Norwegian teachers — is allowed to discuss and agree and get a common understanding of how to implement the new school notification. This means that the chance of success is dramatically higher than what we have seen in other previous reforms going into Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e970	This Communication is an important basis for the further development and formation of future secondary schools. We in the Progress Party, like very many of the other speakers, are very pleased with the large cross-political consensus on this, as this forms the basis for stable school development for many years to come. All political parties have reiterated the importance of early intervention and prevention of non-response in this area. It is with pleasure that I record that the desire and eternal mantra of the Progress Party for level-sharing has now been shown to be effective in this particular battle, despite the fact that some members of the government party have staggered a little to admit that this is the case. I also need to be allowed to say that it is incredibly delicious and inspiring to hear the Minister of Knowledge from the Socialist Left talk about the importance of setting skills requirements and demands for grades in the new electoral disciplines that we are about to receive. It shows that School-Norway has gone from the perception that there should be cooking and cooking school to make clear, concrete demands for the students. But the reason why I am speaking in this debate is another topic, one which unfortunately is mentioned to a very small extent in this communication. It is a topic that will be very important in the future debate on school day design, both in terms of the work on increased well-being in school, improved learning capacity and to enhance the level of implementation, namely the importance of physical activity. Inspired by the representative Hadia Tajik's frequent quotation from a lot of different people, I also want to do the same here. I quote Lord Stanley, who said, "Those who think they don't have time for physical training must, sooner or later, set aside time for illness." This is an important element, because it's important to set aside more time for physical activity in school. In recent years, research has focused on the impact of physical training on the cognitive capacity of students, i.e. the ability to learn. Research shows that physical activity improves mental capacity in memory, response time, school performance and resonance. In addition, there is an important prevention of many lifestyle diseases. It is socio-economically beneficial to invest in this, while helping to improve the daily lives of very many individuals. It is with the background of much of this research that the Health Directorate has stated that all children and young people should have at least 60 minutes of activity every day. The problem is that the use of time for physical activity by children and young people has been drastically reduced in recent years and is constantly being reduced. Physical test results in the physical exercise subject and in the defence show a decrease in physical performance for the paediatric population in Norway. Society has changed. Where children before jumped out and played football or ball and jumped around and played in the woods and fields, they are now at home playing data and TV games, watching Paradise Hotel and downloading fancy apps on iPad and iPhone. The only place where we can actually have a controlled physical impact on this is in school. This was discussed by 2009 at the latest, when a sample, led by Marit Breivik, spoke about the importance of strengthening and increasing physical activity in school. This led to a focus on more physical activity from the 5th to the 7th stage, but unfortunately this modest increase is not enough, and secondly, it was not the youth stage. We in the Progress Party are committed to strengthening the cognitive capacity of the students in the best possible way and using the research results to do this. Studies carried out in children and young people, including: The U.S. showed that academic results improved as time went by for physical exercise in school increased. Other studies again show clear positive links between good physical form and good academic results. We in the Progress Party believe that these results and these findings are so essential for students' learning, for students' motivation and learning and the ability to concentrate in school that we cannot ignore it. We think it is a pity that neither the Right, the Christian People's Party nor the Left are involved in the majority comment we have together with the government parties on the importance of exploiting the possibility of increased physical activity in the already established time frames in the school. We hope that the research results here say their own, and that all the political parties also see the need to increase this in school, that we focus more on it in the future debate, and that the aim of the Progress Party to have at least one hour of physical activity in school every day is actually heard by the other political parties as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e989	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e992	I want to join those who have expressed joy at having a thorough review of the secondary school stage – an important and often decisive period in the schooling of Norwegian students. We have an education offer we can be proud of in Norway, but at the same time we get clear reports that the school needs adjustments to improve the results. The transition from high school to high school is still referred to as one of the toughest challenges students face, and I am therefore surprised that there are so few concrete measures to address this. Right-wing promote more suggestions to do just that. I'm glad that at least the entire opposition supports our proposal to facilitate attempts at joint advisory services for primary and secondary schools. There are major challenges in many places to put in place competent counsellors with social pedagogical skills and skills to be up-to-date on what the different education systems open up in an ever-changing working life – a working life with ever-changing challenges and skills needs, but also with new opportunities. Error choices are a big challenge. It is de motivating and takes the strength and resources of students, teachers, and often in society too. Right-wing think there are obvious gains in an organisation across which one can build larger and wider environments of competence, and not least where one student can be accompanied by the same advisory environment from high school to completed high school. It provides a unique opportunity for individual follow-up for the benefit of the individual student. In addition, if one of them follows up our proposal to consider the possibility of using a career plan as a tool in school, the school will be able to take many steps forward in the desire to help each student make the right choices and to adjust the school course according to their abilities and interests. It's great that the message says that the students will now have a few hours to choose the subject they have a special interest in, and I think this also gives inspiration to the efforts of the basic skills. However, the right is concerned about how smaller and smaller schools can offer a comprehensive and qualitatively good offer to students. It is therefore essential, in our view, that we now actively facilitate the use of e-learning and distance learning to a far greater extent than is the case today. On the right, the government is asking for an overall review, together with the KS, of both administrative and educational digital systems in school. A concrete plan is needed to coordinate systems and to release educational resources, as well as to provide both e-learning and distance learning to a much greater extent than at present. In order to achieve good electoral skills throughout the country, this is a prerequisite, and the government has to take responsibility. This big message contains many good intentions, but lacks the concrete follow-up. It's sad that not the red-green parties follow us in the concrete ideas we propose, but the combined support from the opposition on many of the central points gives hope for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1007	The red-green government has provided a comprehensive and very good big message to get a more practical, modern and more motivating high school. It is very gratifying that large parts of the content of the voting by the committee bear the mark of consensus. But it must be allowed to point out that it is a little challenging to get what the Right really thinks about the electoral profession. The representative Aspaker said in a reply today that the government has a major ‘communication challenge’. Well, one thing is at least obvious -- right knows what they're talking about when they're talking about communication challenges. At the same time, one of Højre's most prominent school politicians, Torger Ødegaard, says that he will deny the Oslo students the possibility of an electoral profession in high school. The representative, Aspaker, is concerned that the electoral profession should not be a good thing for large schools – I fully agree with that, but it may seem that the school bureau in Oslo, Torger Ødegaard, took that concern a little literally when he told the newspaper that he would do everything he could for the Oslo School to be exempted from the electoral profession. Where the Right Grandfather is in favour of an electoral profession, stating that there will be ‘an important measure to increase motivation and mastery feeling’, the same Ødegaard says that the electoral professions do the weakest pupils a service, and he recommends more practice. Practice more is a simple advice, but unfortunately it's not always the best. Motivation is a phenomenon that is a little bit more advanced than that. That's why we have to take more steps, and variation is the key. Students themselves say that practical and varied working methods increase motivation. Several students have to experience mastery – it creates more learning. If students themselves expect a new defeat, it is such that indifference can become a protection mechanism. If you don't even try, you can't be guilty of bad work either. We know that there is a connection between the motivation of students and the learning of students. Today, more than every 10 students at the 10th grade say that they are disgusted in school everyday life. The motivation falls through high school, and the lack of knowledge from high school is the single factor most relevant to the drop-out in secondary education. Elections alone will not meet all the challenges we have in high school, but it is one of several important steps that a unanimous increase today is adopting. It's a pleasure that the parties in this hall agree on a lot. That's good for the process that's now going to be launched in every high school in the country. That is why it is all the more strange that the School Office of the Right in Oslo today announces a principal fight against the electoral profession in high school. I hope that there will be a clear clarification from the representatives of the Right in the Chamber here today. If not, it is tempting to quote the representative Nikolai Astrup. In his closing twitter message on the same theme, he only said "hmm".
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1024	Schools should provide children and young people with knowledge, skills and attitudes, i.e. the best possible basis for later life. Then it is unacceptable to approx. one-fifth of the students out of the 10th grade with completely insufficient knowledge to pass secondary education. For these students, the school has not solved the mission, and the cause of it is unfortunately ideological. Strangely enough, red-green school politicians have found it difficult to talk about differences among students and are still struggling to take the consequences. Resistance to grades, testing and use of level-differentiated teaching are examples of this. Ideology takes precedence over the best of students. Despite the fact that all students are entitled to adapted training, the school is unable to provide this when students with very different assumptions are always required to have integrated education. The rigid provisions of the Training Act and the prohibition of the division of pupils into groups by professional level make this impossible. This ban uses many schools of great ingenuity to circumvent by camouflage grouping, so that it looks as if the criteria are some other. Schools and teachers see that it is necessary to group in order to give everyone more adapted education. Other attempts to provide organised education for groups of students with major challenges, such as: own arrangements for provocative boys have been stopped even though the results have been very good. So maintaining the illusion of the primary school is more important than the best of students. I remember what SV's school policy spokesman here in Stortinget, Aksel Hagen, said in the debate about my interpellation about measures for boys who are struggling at school. He said that taking them out of class and making his own arrangements is too high a political price to pay. That the measures help the students is therefore not important. When the political price is too high, it's the students who have to pay the price, with damaged schooling and little opportunities for the future. The honorary orders for the common school, where everyone participates on equal terms and has the same opportunities, are therefore no reality. Students start school as six-year-olds with very different starting points. The most important luggage is taken from home. The level of education, family situation and social conditions of parents have a decisive impact on the starting point of pupils. The school therefore has an important function in balancing such social differences. This task is not going to do the school well enough. On the contrary, international surveys have shown that the impact of social differences is greater in Norwegian schools than in schools in many other countries. The common school, which was to give equal opportunities to everyone, fails the weakest students. The right considers that it is time to settle the provisions of the Training Act in this area and today suggests that new GIV measures should be introduced from 8th grade, and not only in the last six months in the 10th grade. It is also an interesting paradox that the government, when it comes to helping the weakest students in ten years of schooling, uses the same level differentiation as the ideologically opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1037	One of the starting points for this message is that most students actually enjoy the school well, while many students experience the youth stage as theoretical and boring. It is that students' motivation is the lowest in childhood, and an unpleasantly high number of elephants will go out to work rather than continue in school, if there was a real alternative for them. Among the students who go on to the secondary school, the knowledge backpack that many elephants take with them is too small and too easy. It is thus an important reason for the far too high drop-out in the secondary school. This is the starting point for the many additional motivation measures, and this is a continuous message. So what gives good motivation, also gives good learning. It's like life else. One of the "small" things in this message, but which, in my view, will have great significance in the future, is the theme of entrepreneurship. This will strengthen students’ contact with and relevance to society in general and to a local community in particular. As you know, our most important resource is the knowledge we all have, and the work we provide. Thus, it may be possible to think new and to be innovative and creative to become decisive factors for future well-being for all of us. This is why entrepreneurship is also about increasing the basic skills and social knowledge of students. So far, the debate in the Chamber today has not clarified so much about what the right-wing party actually means about important points in the matter. When it comes to the Right, it's completely incomprehensible what the party thinks about the Valfaga. As is well known, the school bureau in Oslo, Torger Odegaard, says he is in principle opposed to the electoral profession. Right here today gives praise to the same Ødegaard and is with him, but matches the plural and is for plural. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get When it comes to the Progress Party, Lien's representative was very optimistic that correcting the practice does not mean depriving the theoretical ambitions. Of course, I'm in agreement with the representative Lien in this. However, the problem that hangs in the air is that the Progress Party does not want to be involved and emphasise how important it is for Norwegian elephants to also have a high level of knowledge in future, for example. advocacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1055	I'm going to leave to my colleagues to comment on Tor Bremer's comments, because I want to say to everyone at first that I think it's nice that we start the spring session with a school policy debate. One of our most important tasks is just to make sure that the school is developed further. A good school should give all students the opportunity to create the future they themselves want. Then the school must first ensure that all students master basic skills in reading, writing and billing when they leave high school. It is important to prevent high school drop-outs. With my perspective from the Labour and Social Committee, I am also very concerned that a good school is one of our most important instruments in social policy. Mastering basic skills is important in order to establish links with the labour market later on. But it is a worryingly high proportion of adults who struggle with failing basic skills and experience it as challenging to master jobs and everyday life. It shows how important it is with a good school that sees and helps all students. A number of proposals have been put forward to help students succeed even better in high school. It is important to capture as early as possible those students who need a little extra help. We are constantly hearing about the need for more early action, but then we need to have a regulatory framework that will allow early action. I have noticed that as part of the New GIV, the schools have the opportunity to take the weakest students at the end of the 10th grade into their own intensive education groups. Well, that's good, but probably in the last team. The right considers that schools should be given this option already in 8th grade. There is an early effort in practice. We must shake off the wait-and-see attitude that has prevailed in Norwegian school. We owe the students the help they need, as early as possible. In this way, they can experience mastery and succeed in school, and the entrance to the negative spiral — which at worst can lead to a later life outside the workplace — can be hindered. Some help in the past, e.g. in grade 8 could contribute to an increase in students’ motivation through high school, and the spiral is moving in a positive direction. This summer I visited Soon Sea School in Vestby. It is a school that provides an offer to high school students who are not able to attend ordinary school everyday life. I was told real sunshine stories about students who started there for different reasons, but who with close follow-up and a completely different day-to-day school mastered high school and could go on to begin the high school they wanted. Such stories really make me happy. It shows that focusing on the rivers and thinking about what's best for him or her gives good results. Such alternative training services need to be provided to help students who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1080	The desire for more practical and relevant training is unisoned from all over the country and gives optimism. This optimism must be borne in mind. It must be anchored in the municipalities and in the individual school. All the elephants must experience the joy of learning, of creating, of enjoying to mean something, of being able to help someone, of being able to travel home that when the day of school is over and knowing to themselves that today I have been closed. Today I have got something, and I mean something. I want to use the rest of my post on the advisory service. It is crucial to ensure a close and accessible, high-quality consultancy service throughout youth and further training. In this age group, many elephants face demanding educational choices; others need someone to talk to about personal or social challenges. The commoner here is the need for an adult who sees each one. Over the last few years, the government has implemented a wide range of important measures to strengthen the whole spectrum of counselling in and out of school. The sharing of counselling services in a social educational and professional context has been an important requirement of the Student Organisation for many years. It's now done. Local and county authorities have been given additional resources to improve the quality of the advisory service. Partnerships for career guidance are in place in all countries, and the state further facilitates national and regional career centres. Education choices are being developed to ensure an even closer and better link with business. In the Annual Youth Report, it is warned that the social educational advice should be further strengthened. The arrows are now pointing in the right direction, but challenges remain. Many elephants told me that the counsellors at the school have too little time to talk to each one. Many people experience a choice of faults, which can lead to less motivation and, worst of all, to failure. In the past, the advisory service was an exclusive offer under the control of the school. I am very pleased that over the last few years we have had a development in which the work of the workforce has contributed significantly more positively to this work. Outsourcing, practice places, mentoring schemes, better cooperation at all levels and, not least, the establishment of a career centre allow us to offer students a much more holistic and adaptable approach. The working party wants an even closer cooperation between school and working life. This is inconclusively positive – for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1099	I would like to join the representative Graham said that it was nice to start the year with a school debate. There is no doubt that creating a better school and competence in Norwegian society is our main challenge. But if one had listened to the red-greens, one would almost think that the debate was for or against Torger Ødegaard – and preferably against – because there is not much else going on. I wonder if you don’t focus on the fact that we don’t actually have a school that creates the results you should expect. We have a school that reproduces social differences, and that's totally unacceptable. Until we have the solution, I would have preferred a debate aimed at knowledge and how we actually get knowledge into school. As I see it, it's very central to getting knowledge into school a strong ownership, it's good management through competent principals, and it's good class management through good teachers. I hope it actually can agree on that. You can be for or against Torger Ødegaard and Oslo School, but there is no doubt that they have shown their way in this debate. Many are following, fortunately, but still many have not taken local responsibility by taking strong ownership. I find that Øystein Djupedal got it right when he said that to get a good school policy it didn't just go against Kristin Klemet. Now I have recorded in myself that most have adopted what Kristin Klemet stood for. I want to say a little bit about national tests. I'm surprised you don't have any more focus on them. They are actually guiding who succeeds, what is good grip in school, and also who has challenges. They don't say everything, but they can say a lot. I get quite a number of enquiries from local politicians who find it difficult to access national samples and access the results of national tests. In doing so, they cannot exercise the good local ownership. At least we should start there. Last year, the government also voted against proposals to develop clearer guidelines for national tests. I'm surprised that you haven't taken the challenge, because I also get a lot of enquiries from teachers who are concerned that the tests do not have the same protection as for example. Exam. In many schools, the tests become known in advance, the teachers correct their own classes and also sit as managers for their own classes – so we can't guarantee that it's not being cheated. This is also about much more than just exemption statistics. It's about the whole implementation of a very central part of creating a good overview of developments in Norwegian school, and I hope the Council of State will take on board that there is a challenge here, even if you have voted against it at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1114	First, I would like to pay tribute to the title of the youth school message, which is “Motivation – Mestring – Possibilities”. I think there's an outstanding title to a message where the main goal is to give students more motivation, more mastery feeling, and that they can see the possibilities they have in one of the world's best countries to live in. Why didn't they? But we know that the students are dropping their motivation, and he's particularly small on the youth ball. I often ask myself why it might actually be like that. I met a good guy I knew from the neighborhood. He had started on the youth ball, and I asked, how is it going? He said, "Not so good, I'm so bad." His answer impressed me. I think it's the system that rubbed them for self-confidence, and he needed motivation, he needed to have a master's feeling, and he needed to see the possibilities he had. I believe this message gives hope for success and for a more motivating youth school. I want to use my article on mental health. It is also noted that figures from the Institute of Public Health show that almost one in five young people in the early school have mental distress in one form or another. These are very high numbers. The Committee notes that it is obvious that mental health has an impact on the level of function of the elephants and affects the learning situation. Yes, of course it does. It's a very serious challenge, and my advice is that the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health, in the follow-up to this plan, is about a lift to improve the mental health of the students. I'll mention two things you can do in school to prevent mental distress. The one is a pedigree. We have to admit that she is too poor in many municipalities. We have to admit that she's worse the older the students are, and it's worse in the future. The school services need to be more integrated into the standard school and serve as a real low-threshold service. Briefly told, the school nurse needs a lift. The other relates to physical activity. Here I would like to congratulate the representative Mette Hanekamhaug on his contribution. The point is that regular physical activity can prevent mental distress such as depression and anxiety. Only half of the 15-year-olds meet the health authorities’ recommendation on activity. We have a gym that has an improvement potential, which has been for performance, with character pressure, which has not been the height point and the breathing hole in a school day that it was before. At the same time, young people experience a peak in sport that causes many to fall from. I am pleased with the change that the Minister of Education has noticed in high school, and that the majority in the committee wants to focus on more physical activity where possible. There is a lot of good health in a good youth school, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1130	I've been following the debate with interest all day, and I'm glad that, after all, there's a considerable consensus about the need for changes in high school. I also hope that the government in the future will get where the Right is, but this is a process. I'm going to pay attention to an area that hasn't been particularly affected in the debate today, and it's about paying attention to the work of the Board of Education. The Government proposes to complete the pupil board's work as a subject of its own. Today, the trade has 71 hours over a three-year period in secondary school. That doesn't mean that this right-hand section hour is locked, but this is an important area that we still want to be a separate subject. There has been consultation in the context of the notification and the proposal for student work was met with considerable reluctance in the consultation in Stortinget. From the uprising that we are seeing today about the political youth parties, I must also say that on the part of the government it is about being very unmusical. The right is opposed to the removal of pupil council work as a subject of its own. It has a bad effect, and so Norwegian students score high on democracy studies. Then it makes little sense to remove just this subject which is an arena where students can develop just the knowledge of democracy and skills. Student participation and the importance of student democracy for the development of young people is very central. Then the meeting in the class hour is perhaps the very first place in the public space where students have to break their opinions, have to express their opinions, make their opinions, try their views and prejudice them, draw reasoning, participate in word exchanges, conduct meetings, review and conduct votes, use the voice – use the voice of other arenas than just where it is about basic skills, which are important enough, in Norwegian, other languages and real subjects. The voice is to be used, and content is to be provided for interaction between teachers, school managers and their own fellow students in areas other than what traditionally belongs to school. Experience and win arguments and voting and losing similar is important for your own formation process – learning something about democracy. So the government will remove this as a subject of its own. In the 2010 international democracy survey, it was found that Norwegian students’ knowledge of – and attitudes to – democracy and citizenship are very good compared to the knowledge of students in 38 other countries who participated. So what we succeed in is the government wants us to take away.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1143	Future entrepreneurs and business leaders are sitting on the school bench right now. Their creativity and entrepreneurial spirit are crucial for the future of our country. That's why the choices we're making for the students and the schools are of central importance. Founders are crucial for a living and innovative business in the future, and investing in entrepreneurship in school is very important to create our future business life and thus growth power throughout the nation. This is important for both city and country. Entrepreneurship, electives and practical subjects in school are important for meeting the future we enter, in an offensive way, and it creates motivated students and engaged teachers. Experience with youth enterprises in Young Entrepreneurship is very good. Many of those who have helped to run youth businesses become even young entrepreneurs. The knowledge and experience gained by the students means that they have a completely different ballast to take with them into the establishment of their own business than those who have not been given this opportunity. This lowers the barriers to creating your own business. They gain leadership experience, economic and market understanding, and they become aware of some of the obstacles they must face. Some experience bankruptcy along the way. It's also part of the learning process. Then at least they know what's going on to succeed in the next round. I myself have a background from this work, among other things. as Executive Director of Young Entrepreneurship in Troms. I'm impressed by the creativity and commitment shown around the schools. This is where there is real optimism and faith in the future. The Central Party believes that all students, both in high school and in high school, must be offered the opportunity to engage in youth activities. I would therefore encourage the municipalities and the counties to make a big effort at entrepreneurship in school. To become founder state no. 1 should be the main and greatest competition between the counties, while having the best professional offer, in close cooperation with industry. To succeed in entrepreneurship in school, I want to highlight the central role of teachers. Skills for teachers are important, and entrepreneurs must receive the recognition they deserve for the efforts they make as a basis for our future business life. In the spring of 2011, a new cooperation was established between the University of Tromsø and Young Entrepreneurship, which means that students in teacher training are trained in entrepreneurship as a method. This will give rise to this investment in Troms and will succeed other educational institutions in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1160	As I said in my main post, I believe there are many good intentions in this message about how to change school, but I don't think we have all the means to reach them. That's why I had my main focus on the continuing training of teachers and a longer teacher education. Svein Gieleth spoke nicely and warmly about the counsellor's service, but we know that four out of ten counselors in high school do not have the education they should have had. We are sorry that the Left stands alone on the proposal for a stepping-up plan for the advisers. In all alternative budgets in the last period, the Left has proposed the establishment and escalation of school health services. Having a school health service that works, having a school health service that relieves the teachers and that follows the students, is important to get the high school that's going to. We're sorry we don't get any support for it. At a time when we have a prime minister who gathers the nation around expressions of democracy and more transparency, we think it's nice to cut student work and make it less important and less prestigious in Norwegian school. That's why we're also sorry that we don't get support for it. In our alternative budget this year, we have re-prioritized the homework allowance. The government wants to provide homework to the youngest, the youngest who usually have parents who are able to follow what they are doing, the youngest who will learn good work routines with Mom and Dad at home. What would have been much more effective is that the money could have been used as a teaching aid in high school where Mom and Dad can no longer follow, and where the support device around might need a little extra needs. That's why we wanted to re-prioritize these funds, so that the schools can use them for homework for those groups that they especially see need it. I think we very much agree on the headings of this message. We have some skin debates, I mean, for example. on level-sharing, which I believe is done a lot of practical, good, normal adult pedagogy around Norwegian schools, without one having to make it an ideological battlefield. But if we really had done something here, we would have had to bet on the continuing training of teachers and give them the tools they need. We should have had better advisers, we should have built up the school health service, we should have had homework in high school, and we should have let the student council continue. I think it would have been the five grips that would have made us target.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1180	First of all, thanks to Truls Wickholm, who stresses something very important, that in implementation now it is very good practice to start from. That's something we all have to notice and be happy about. Second: a thank you to Henning Warloe, who quotes me. It's hard to get quoted. Had I been part of the academy, it would almost have been a kind of survival strategy to be quoted – if not cancelled. I can't believe that what was quoted, 'high political price to pay', is a gardening formulation, but it gets Warloe and I find out afterwards. At least it's interesting to notice that where Hanekamhaug says we've now completely given ourselves over and are for a level differentiation, Warloe says that here we haven't understood anything, because here we're still different from level differentiation. Thirdly, if the Right knows, for example: Elisabeth Aspaker was allowed to be a Council of Knowledge for one day – it must be enough for one day, just before the summer holiday – and received an application from the Municipality of Oslo for exemption from the electoral field, how will the Right then deal with that application, given that they are based on the decision we are making later today, and to which the Right joins? Fourthly, when we're visiting big business representatives, we sometimes get gifts. I was at the University of Tromsø last week, and then I got a gift. It was a book, and it's called "Three Years of Chaining?" – about being a high school student. It was released in 2000 and the editor is Gunnar Grepperud. The summary that he and the researchers came with is to a large extent – and it is very good to note – written into the message here today. One of the points they had was to raise and develop the importance of a good link between education and daily life – and with daily life he meant both working life, culture, global development, etc. A little bit in the course of that last week I was so lucky to have an additional experience, and it was linked to the annual conference of cultural schools in Hedmark and Oppland. One of our many skilled teachers, lecturers and researchers, Wenche Waagen, had a wonderful lecture – go and “quasirs” her afterwards. The lecture called the importance of the arts for children and young people’s life skills and had as a sub-title – note it – the effects and side effects of artistic learning processes. Her points can also largely be transferred to practical aesthetic subjects in general. The main point here – and more I can't reach until the president clubs – is that this isn't a recipe at a kosher school. This is a recipe for increasing learning pressure; it is a recipe for getting a more effective learning pressure, not least in the theory disciplines, by using this learning method and all the possibilities that lie in the practical-esthetic approach, which comes in addition to the more academic teaching method.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1193	There's been a lot of talk about school. I thought I'd say something about society as well, right away. Thus, in previous generations, a significant part of the workforce inherited the job after its father. Until recently, it has been that if you have learned a profession, either through professional or higher education, you are likely to be in that profession – and perhaps in the job you got when you were trained – until you left your pension. I'm saying this because it's important to remember that it's neither for today nor for tomorrow we're talking about when we're doing the grips we're doing with high school today, it's the decades ahead of 2065. Every year, between 10 and 15 pst. of the workplaces in private business. Fortunately, several are created – between 12 and 15 pst. new jobs are created each year. But there is a change in business that our society has never faced before, which means that more skills are required from the students we send into higher education – and hopefully out of higher education. That's why I'm very pleased with the clarification the Council of State made, that this big message in no way leads to a weakening of the ambitions of academic achievements and academic learning in school. If we do that, we will also send many of these students into a short-term career and then disability. So a few brief considerations about the infrastructure: it's a paradox that we decide to have more practical education, without knowing if we have an infrastructure in the schools for it. Chemistry is a subject I had a lot of use and joy from – and then I also learned mathematics, as well as chemistry – but it is, for one thing, illegal, and probably also to some extent dangerous, to do without having a suitable chemistry. You can't do this in a normal classroom. That we can't even agree that we need to monitor the situation until we take every year's budget debate, I think it's a little unfortunate. So a little visit to the Center Party: if it's that way that the wit is equally distributed throughout the country, as I think it is, I think it would have been okay if we had made it clear that it's the county municipalities that are responsible for funding higher education – no matter how old the students are. So a little visit, finally, to the Right: we could have used this day to clarify what the Right believes about the electoral profession. I tried several times in the election campaign to challenge them on it, but got no answer. I thought I had received an answer this fall. I must admit that I am more uncertain about what the Right believes now than I was before the debate started. But then the Progress Party, together with the Left, probably assumes the responsibility of being the guarantor of freedom of choice also internally in the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1206	I have one point that I want to raise, give some more attention, and that we have so far been in. This applies to the teacher, all of whom comment on it, is an important and crucial resource for school students. Teacher training has been hampered by recruitment, and we still hear that the profession has too low status. We in the Right want the best applicants, and we want to adjust education to make it more attractive and attract new groups. It is therefore time that we now upgrade teacher training to a five - year master’s program. Although these measures are not specific to secondary education, it seems important to promote the proposal today. Teachers who receive an even better education, education with a greater chance of professional immersion and education that can have a much greater combination of theory and practice will benefit all pupils, not least those in high school. We need a debate on how to raise the teaching profession, and on how to give teachers the best starting point for teaching well. That is why it is important for the Right to point this out in this debate as well. The new measures in secondary school are now entering a critical phase, especially with the time horizon from today until school starts in the autumn of 2012. It is therefore great and important that attention is now being paid to implementation, which seems to have failed for some time now. Finally, a small comment to those who have been more concerned about discussing whether there is disagreement in the Right than discussing the future of high school. We're three big business representatives from the Right here today. We have worked actively and extensively on this communication and have made 20 proposals. One is so much agreement that the government will be sent. The other 19 are correctly voted down by a majority. That's the electoral profession and the high school we want, it shouldn't be very difficult to read up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1217	I'm not so concerned about whether it's messy or not in the right, I think that's to the extent that it is. But what I think is serious is that the Right fractional leader of the Education Committee is asking whether it is the responsibility of the government to introduce electoral courses in the way that the government has set up, while at the same time being in the position to do so. I think it's very serious to ask questions about the entire implementation. What kind of security does it provide for School-Norway? I wish that Aspaker could confirm whether she is in favour, or whether she is against, whether she is going to stand behind this or not. So it looks like the Right opinion that level differentiation is the only thing that helps. A couple of representatives here, Gundersen and Graham, have been into it. They say, among other things: that they would like to be able to get the new GIV much earlier, got it in 8th grade instead of 10th grade. Well, we also have something called New GIV in the 1st grade, or early bet, as we call it. It's about bringing the measures right away that the students are falling out. The new GIV is a project that will last a short time, to lift the students who haven't got what they necessarily needed in school. If it's not level differentiation, it's samples and grades. There's probably a lot of sense going on, as Trine Skei Grande says. We know, for example. that work in small groups that rotate over a shorter period of time can work, but we know from research that permanent level differentiation does not work, but on the contrary can be counterproductive. The Gundersen also called for a focus on national samples, who are doing well. Well, we also know, from research again, that those who work with assessment for learning, not only assessment of learning, are also the ones who succeed best in the tests that test learning. That's why the Education Directorate has a bet called it, Appraisal for Learning, which goes from 2010 to 2014, and which is about giving teachers some tools for what they can do in classrooms, how they can teach. It's about students understanding what they're learning, what's expected. They shall receive feedback on quality and performance and receive advice on improvement in a continuous process. They shall be involved in their own learning by assessing their own work and how they learn. The students become aware of how they learn, and not just what they learn. This is well covered in research, both from the OECD and from Black and William. I wish that the Right spent a little more time getting involved in internationally recognized school research, instead of just getting back to the dogmas of level differentiation, more grades and more tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1234	I am pleased with the broad commitment in the Storting that the youth class should become more varied, more motivating, that the learning pressure should be increased, and that more students should master more. It's a very strong force when we're going to put these changes into practice. So we're not just going to let go of this big message and wish you luck, we're going to follow up with an implementation strategy over five years where the teacher and the teacher's competence are at the center. School-based classroom management arrangements will be a very important step in terms of the professional replenishment that very many teachers need in order to be able to work more differently and practically around. It's only when the last student notices that the school has now become more practical and varied, that we can say that we have succeeded in this. In this context, we will also take with us the experience of New GIV and the transition project in New GIV. The whole point of the transition project, the offer given to 10th graders at Christmas times of more practical and varied reading and calculation training, is not that they should receive that training on their own. It is that it should be more practical and varied. Now we have to make sure that we take with us the experience, which is very good. A lot of teachers are very happy with the training they have received to work more effectively and vary in terms of reading and billing, and so that it can shape the whole way of working at high school. Then the discussion of level differentiation – as some have tried to record here – becomes a bit of a template, because it sounds like that’s the goal. The goal is to meet these students in the past, with more and different ways of working. Then I have to say that I am very surprised at the opposition parties that now support the introduction of the electoral profession, but that do not want to complete the subject of student work, because then you do not have hours for the electoral profession. It's very closely related, that's how we got to this. It is not a matter of student democracy and schoolwork being not important. It is about the fact that the subject of student work is not a very successful subject. But we have to – point 1 – make sure that we adhere to regulations on student participation, and – point 2 – go through the curriculum in both Norwegian and social sciences and other subjects to ensure that we are still world leaders in understanding democracy, as we are among Norwegian students. So it's very interesting that this debate shows a new course for the promise of knowledge and a much broader vision of knowledge than the Right wanted to introduce as they would introduce the promise of knowledge. The right does not propose mandatory introduction of the second foreign language, which they last adopted at their national meeting. There is a new climate, quite simply, in the debate. But it's full of confusion about what the Right actually means. Does the Right believe, in the light of the decision we are making here today, that it is possible to introduce an exception for a tenth of the students in Norway, and that the students in Oslo will not be given an electoral profession, as the Right Agency in Oslo wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1247	As others have pointed out, we really quite agree on most of the points in the communication, although the debate naturally bears the mark of the areas in which we disagree. When it comes to student work – I should also mention it – it's not like we're accepting it and want us not to have it in school, but it's about us wanting to organise it in a different way, and it's to fund the electoral professions. Like too many more other things that you take up and criticise the position, the opposition does not have financial coverage when they come up with their proposals, including this. So it's not hanging in the hop. So I also think it's a little funny that the right-wing representatives react to the Oslo School being dragged into this school debate. It is simply because of the fact that it is rare one has seen such a speck internally in one's own party between such a central school politician, as Torger Ødegaard despite everything is, and that the Oslo School is still being raised internally in the Right, although we other, red-green politicians, would bring out other Right-Communities, if it were so about doing, which have a better school policy than Oslo. So when the Right is so suspended in Oslo School, they now discover that there's obviously a problem when they're on a collision course with one of their leading school politicians. When even the Progress Party is also wondering about the conclusion, there must at least be reason to be able to get an explanation, which I expect we will get in the course of the debate. I also think it's kind of template-placed to draw this up with level differentiation, that for example. what we already have in Norwegian school, that those who find some theory subjects easily at high school, get an offer to take courses at high school, is an average to be able to divide the class into groups by level. No, it's not -- it's something else. The same applies to New GIV, which is a very special project. That is why it is not entirely related in my opinion. – That's what I had to say in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1260	This has been the debate where government parties have gone like cats around the pike, and then they have taken a few rounds around Oslo City Hall, where they have also been led by the Progress Party. You'd almost think the government was in opposition. It is now up to the government to submit the electoral profession in such a way that it would not be necessary for Torger Ødegaard to submit an application to the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen, who will process the application. I don't understand what you're worried about. It is now the challenge of the government to ensure that the electoral professions become so solid that applications from Torger Ødegaard or others that question their content are superfluous. For the right, there is a cross of thought after this debate that you are not quite willing to accept that the New GIV measures you have put in place are level-sharing. For the right, it's a cross of thought that you don't want to recognise that the time pressure around the introduction of the electoral professions is so great that it can be released on quality. The councils admitted in the reply that yes, we have a terriblely bad time. It should not be surprising that school politicians out there who are responsible for introducing the electoral professions to the harvest are asking for and need more clarification than they are now going to have. I note that there has been a movement towards the right of SV in school policy. I'm glad. We're looking at the connection to grades in electoral subjects. And if I'm going to say that there's someone who can control ideology here, it has to be the government parties, which are so concerned that you don't have to run level-sharing that you simply put an end to measures that we know could have been of help to many of the students who are struggling enormously in Norwegian school today. It's no secret that high school textbooks are yellow, green and red, and that it's a camouflaged form of leveling, or customization of tasks. But the question is whether the school could not have organized this so effectively if you had had the opportunity to run intensive mathematics courses, just as you do intensive reading courses for the students who have the most difficulty reading. I feel in a way that the debate here today is taking the same kind of caricatured paths that we experience otherwise. But let there be no doubt that the Right will vote for the vote today in the belief – in the belief – that the government and the ministry are making maximum efforts to meet the prerequisites for the election subjects described in the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1272	I took the floor because I had to react a little to the representative Wickholm's interpretation of my post. But really I could pull myself straight afterwards, when the council was up, because she cleaned up very well for me – I thank you for that. The aim, said the Council of State, is to meet the students early in the field of adapted education. That's exactly what I was talking about, too. I come from a municipality myself, I could tell you a lot more about the storeroom. It's a Right Commune, and it's been in many human ages. It has a good school – it's Oppegård school. We have a lot of good practice to show where the Right School really delivers results, and we have no reason to be ashamed of that. And then you could call it custom training, or you could call it level differentiation. Our common goal, as the Council of State said, is to meet the student early with the education that the child needs. We already see it in high school. We know well the difference in Norwegian and Finnish schools, and one of the things that the Finnish school is really familiar with is putting resources in early. So we know that when Norwegian schoolchildren go to high school, it becomes a little bit vacuum, and that's when Right thinks that the wait-and-see attitude up to 10th grade might not be the right one, but that you have the best glasses right from the start. The goal is to meet the student early in the course of the education that the child needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1281	I can't push myself. What's most interesting in this discussion, is that the right is at full speed away, but in full confusion, from what they've insisted on for us to have more of that in Norwegian school lately. The right was against the electoral profession. Elisabeth Aspaker has argued against, Erna Solberg has argued against, Odegaard has argued against, and he will in addition boycott the centrally adopted scheme that is now being put here in the Stortinge today. Then I have to ask: what is Elisabeth Aspaker thinking that central authorities should do if the political board of a tenth of high school students wants them not to have the opportunity to vote? We have not received an answer to that. It's not that strange, because there's confusion in the right, and I think that's perhaps the most interesting. From the discussion after the PISA shock in 2000, as it was quite correct to focus more on goals and results in school, the Right has only tried to strengthen the pendulum all the way. Now I believe that there is a broad consensus in the Storting about adjusting the way you think and approach, and a broad consensus that there should be a broader vision of knowledge and more varied, with a greater emphasis on motivation, and then the Right can't stick with it. This discussion about level differentiation, I think, is a great need to clean up. It is quite obvious that there is uncertainty about what is inside and outside the training law in this area in School Norway. However, it is completely wrong that intensive courses are not allowed in e.g. reading and billing within the scope of today's law. It is common not to divide students according to performance, and the background for it is highly international and national. This means that some students have too low expectations, that they learn less. The syllabus system in Norway showed that there were parental ambitions on behalf of the students, not what they themselves had the potential to do, which determined the syllabus in which the students came, and they did not come out of it. So this isn't wise. However, in adapted training and in today’s legislation it is fully possible to have intensive training in different subjects as needed. Then I want to say something about the preparations that now have to be made. The background that we start already in the harvest is the unison desire of students. The challenge for municipal politicians is: Check what is available in secondary school equipment now, so that it is possible to get started. To the school management: See what you have of competence, so that you can pick the choices and start from what's closest to what you already have. Then I want to say that I see this in connection with the resource standard, that is, the proposal that has just been at the hearing that is about a maximum number of students per teacher, because it gives more opportunity to work more differently in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1292	Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1295	I am strongly responding to the Council of State's debate technique here today. I have never – never – opposed the introduction of the electoral profession. As far as I know, neither has party leader Erna Solberg. But we've both made clear demands on how to set up these choices: smart electoral skills, building up the other subjects in school and helping to raise the motivation of the students. So the Council of State should stay too good to go to this pulpit and promote claims that are false. It is now up to the Department to build confidence in the electoral fields so that they can be implemented in a good way as it is now outlined. If you can't be sure about it, the government itself should go into the mind-box and think about whether it would be wise to disappoint a year-old student, if that could make all the other students happy later. Then I still think it is a paradox that action is being taken within the New GIV that requires exemption from all laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1302	Tord Lien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1305	It's probably not right for me to draw this up at this point in the debate, but I reacted a little when the State Council Halvorsen began to talk about tabling from previous positions. It is a bit funny when we deal with this matter. For now we are introducing more freedom of choice, we agree that there should be grades in the electoral fields, the general teacher has taken the Halvorsen State Council, silent – with my great support, but just as fully silent – rat on, very happy. We're going away from the idea and the goal of keeping the coals together and allowing faster progress. We assume that national tests and PISA results are important for the follow-up of schools, and we agree that we are doing this because in Norwegian school there is a need for increased learning outcomes. Those things didn't hear me talk about Øystein Djupedal very much in 2005 and 2006. But KD has a job to do, we're on the right track, I think, and no one wants to go back to syllabus. But good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1310	Axle Hagen gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1313	Let's forget Elisabeth Aspaker, let's forget Erna Solberg -- let's just notice that we have one named Ødegaard, who says very clearly in the newspaper what he said in April in the same newspaper, that he is the principal opponent of the electoral profession. He already knows that he is going to apply for an exception. There's no pending municipal politicians we're talking about, it's a fundamental opponent of electoral science. He belongs to a party that today votes for election. Obviously, there's a contradiction here. We're not worried about this, but we're a little curious about what's Right's policy in this area. If I'm going to speak to the Right – I sometimes do – I think Svein Harberg has made the good conclusion here today. He says that the right national opinion is that the electoral profession makes sense. But we notice that Elisabeth Aspacer has a little more trouble saying as clearly as his committee colleague that they want to go for election. So then we'll see what happens in the future. It'll be exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1320	I thought I would try to get the last word in this debate! I think it has been a good debate. There have been many good posts. I'm not going to go up any more controversy, I think. We've been trying to get a little dynamic in this debate, and that's very good. I am very pleased that there is an overall committee and cross-political agreement on the direction of high school. The most important thing, which I think everyone in the different parties is concerned about, is that we're going to hit the students better to learn what they're good at. It's supposed to happen early, too. Some are good in mathematics, some are good in Norwegian, some are good in practical-esthetic subjects, and some are good in meddling, music or language. The desperation in school has been that you have not had enough opportunities to provide training that can meet everyone. Schools I have had contact with are in the process of preparing for the electives. There has been a lot of talk about electoral matters here today, and it's natural, since it's new. It shouldn't be the same thing that many of us who went to school before have experienced. It has to be good, and you have to have curricula – because it also has to be assessed. There'll be some uncertainty in that. But we can't afford it, nor can we have time to wait. We need a system that provides opportunities, not a system that prevents those possibilities. That's why we're going to be better at practical teaching, even from 8th grade. That's why we're going to give better education in Norwegian and math. That's why we're going to give election skills, and those elections are going to be good, and we're going to be good as we work with them. Then we're going to give work subjects. We're going to be good at educational choices. The practical-esthetic subjects have their own focus. It is also an implementation strategy, and we need to strengthen the teachers. That's why we're not going to lower the ambitions of high school, but we're going to organize to promote them. As I read the debate, there are many good intentions from all parties. I do not fully follow all the logical lines, neither practical, with large and small schools and the use of time, with reference to the Time Use Committee, nor with regard to the lack of funding for some proposals. But I'm sure we're going to debate high school many times in the future. School policy shall be dynamic, not static, but the direction is now fixed. Then it'll be exciting to follow the implementation that's coming, and I'll encourage everyone to visit colleges in the future to hear how they're working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1337	The rapporteur then seems to have succeeded in getting the last words in the debate! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1948]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1357	First of all, I want to take the opportunity to thank you for a very good school debate that we have just had. It got a little hot here at the end, and it's always exciting, but I think it was good that the case rapporteur concluded by pointing out the great consensus that actually exists in this case. Because there is a broad consensus on several of the most important points, including: the focus on adapted training, the practical correction of subjects and the optimal follow-up of students and the provision of appropriate education. It is important to show that the Stortinget stands united on several important actions towards School-Norway in the future, because we have a challenge in the Norwegian school. A lot is good, but a lot can get better. That is why we need to ensure the highest possible and best possible professional development of the school. We also have to think about today's youth, those who attend high school, high school and high school, who will rule and live in this society for the next 20, 30, 40 years. Then it's important that we facilitate that they actually do this in the best possible way, both through professional attainment and more social skills. Steve Jobs once said, ‘Innovation distances between a leader and a follower’. I believe that Norway should be a leader in the world context. Because we no longer compete with the neighbouring farm and the neighbouring farmer to grow the best potatoes or as much vegetables as possible and sell them on the market. Today's society is increasingly characterised by an international competitive community in which we compete for the best possible technology, future development and competence. We are in competition with countries like India, China, Germany, the United States and others. That's exactly where we have to put the bump, and it requires a good school. It demands that our students be able to follow this development – become leaders in the coming years. Then we need a steady course, and we need a good school. We know that much of the prerequisite for a good school is good, motivated and professional teachers. A good teacher can be defined in a lot of ways, depending on who will define it. But two main areas determine what is a good teacher. One is professional — the good professional competence and background of teachers, also the social knowledge and skills of teachers towards their students. When it comes to professional matters, we have raised the issue in the Progress Party, among other things. a five-year teacher training and raising the status and salary of the teaching profession, just to recruit the best teachers. But it also goes on the personal level. The personal chemistry between teacher and student is very important. In order to assess it — find out how it is best presented — it is important to listen to the students experience this chemistry. Single schools, including: Batnfjord School, has given the students the opportunity to participate in the recruitment process of teachers and make recordings of what they think. In an interview with these students, they said that they viewed it as a privilege. They took it into this very seriously and viewed it as an important part in getting good, competent teachers. Sandvika high school is another example. There is a separate test instruction for the few applicants who are left after a silage process. Students may take part in the decision regarding the last teachers. Teachers shall carry out a test instruction for the students with other teachers and the school management present. They will have a school hour, where they will be assessed by the headmaster, other teachers — and by students at, among others. the ability to communicate with students, the ability to communicate, the coherence of teaching and the ability to conduct a class. In the context of this case, one of these teachers’ candidates — the applicants — was interviewed about what she thought about this. She said she had great faith in such a progress in the recruitment process. She said: ‘I went to this with the same seriousness as a regular job interview. Students are my customers or users.» The Rector also underlined that the results of the student assessment form are part of a greater assessment of the jobseeker’s qualifications. He believes that recruiting good teachers for school is one of the most important things they can do, and they were not afraid that this would scare anyone from applying. The Education Association has expressed some criticism about such a scheme, because the students do not have the professional skills required to hire teachers. It's not supposed to be. Students are not supposed to sit and make the decisive decision as to which teachers are to be hired. The whole point is that in an employment process, the best way to get the best input is for those to hire staff — the school management — to decide who to hire. This is when students’ assessment is one of many important indicators in this decision. At the same time, I would like to stress another important element that may not have been mentioned earlier in the discussion of this matter, and that is one of the challenges facing our democracy today. It is a fact that participation in elections, participation in politics – participation in democracy – is still declining, both in the adult population and among young people. It's incredibly difficult to get young people to get involved and participate in society, much harder today than it was before. I think letting students see that they're being taken seriously -- let them participate in a democratic decision-making process like this -- will stimulate increased engagement. This shows that if you are engaged, if you make an effort, and if you contribute to constructive feedback in such a process, you will also be heard. The fact that the students participate actively in their everyday life and in the design of their school days, I think, sends an important signal to the students, that we take them seriously and that it benefits with commitment. We in the Progress Party don't want to force all the schools to do it like this. We just want to open up the possibility, so maybe more schools want to apply such a method. As I said, there is nothing to prevent it today. We see that there are some schools that have used this. The intention of this interpellation is to challenge the Minister of Knowledge on how to send positive signals about such a scheme, perhaps get more schools and school leaders to put it into practice – see this as useful and constructive, see that it can contribute to increased quality assurance for students, teachers and school managers – and that those who are employed in these roles function and fit there. So what I hope to get out of this interpellation debate is that we specifically discuss whether this is a favourable arrangement, possibly sending out positive signals to School-Norway that more people can put this into practice. But it is also a general approach to how we can strengthen student participation in Norwegian school, which we believe is incredibly important from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1389	I thank you for an interesting interpellation, and I understand the representative Mette Hanekamhaug there that she does not want any changes in the law and regulation and the actual responsibilities of employment, but I want to raise the debate on how student democracy and student participation can generally be strengthened in school, and how to make use of that competence, the assessments, the students have in terms of developing what is good learning, and what is the recruitment of good teachers. It may be that we disagree at some point in this, but let me say that my starting point is that it is vital that we manage to develop all the way how to invite students to participate in influencing their own school situation. But the starting point is that the municipalities are responsible for recruiting principals and teachers in the municipalities, and the counties are responsible for recruiting principals and teachers in the counties. It is they, as employers, who have management rights and management obligations, and who are obliged to follow up their employees and give feedback, and, if any, if there are any who are in their job, to do the job that is needed for them to be relocated in a different way. Even if you were to find better ways that students can help in assessing what is good learning or how to give feedback to students, we should never get there that later on as if the students have a responsibility that they don't have. It is the school owners who are responsible. It is the headmaster of the schools who is responsible for attending the teachers, and it is not that we can in a way make an ‘equal view’ of what kind of power or right the students have, which makes them assume a responsibility they do not initially have. The Training Act does not intend to involve students in the field of employment. In my opinion, it is also quite clear that it should still be the responsibility of the municipality. It is also the case that there are legal and contractual bodies that decide what procedures to have in relation to how to recruit teachers for school. Of course, the social partners also need to agree on how to deal with these kinds of issues. Having said that, I think it's interesting to think of the following: The students are included in discussions at schools about the kind of skills you want, before publishing jobs and adding new teachers, and you're going to look at: What is it that we now need from the teachers to strengthen the entire learning environment at our school? Then I ask questions about whether it is practically possible for a group of students to participate in interviews with individual teachers, which in the case should be added to the usual recruitment interviews. Most schools probably have quite a few available teaching positions to fill. Much of the work is done during the summer, and it is difficult to imagine that students will have a direct role to play in interviews with concrete candidates. It will also be that we then come very quickly to questions that have to do with professional secrecy. I disagree with the approach angle of the representative Hanekamhaug if she thinks it should be an arena where you test out personal chemistry, for a teacher who has 20, and maybe 30, students in the class, will have different personal chemistry with different students. The teaching profession is a profession, and we have to be looking for those who can exercise their profession and bring out the qualities and competences that you have. There will also be many cases where there are not necessarily the teachers who give the most popular first impression of the students, who are the best teachers for a job. So I'm concerned that teachers are treated with professionalism when they apply for a position, that it's the competence they have to decide, but that we can also manage to get the discussion on how to bring the discussion forward in view of teachers getting feedback. We have a lot in the student survey response that can be important feedback to use in the discussion at individual schools about what is a good learning environment, and what is not. When the student survey is highly disillusioned among students, it will also be possible to use this in terms of concrete feedback to teachers. I think the student survey is too little used in feedback to the teachers about how to develop the work further. So I think it's important that the teachers are actively looking for feedback from the students about what's good learning, that they themselves put in the system how the students can give feedback, and that they can jointly take the discussion about how things should work and not work. So I think it's very important that the school management is responsive if it's students who turn to the principal or others in the school management to say whether things they don't think are good enough. But then, of course, you have to deal with all this professionally with those who are employed at school. From that point of view, I'm sure you can find good ways to cooperate on this around the schools. If I were to say a little bit more about student participation in the school communities, there's no question. It is enshrined in national and international legislation. It is enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the Training Act. The aim of the Training Act is to ensure that students have co-responsibility and the right to participation. The purpose shall be to permeate the entire initial training. The student's involvement has been deepened in both the general and the principles of training in the Education and Training Plan. The principles of the curriculum for training underline that the school should prepare students to participate in democratic decision-making processes and stimulate social inclusion. Students shall have experience of participation and participation in democratic processes both in day-to-day work and in participation in representative bodies. It was also a topic in the previous debate. This is an area where Norwegian students are far ahead in the world context. We know that this is something that Norwegian school has managed to realize in a good way. We should be proud that we have come this far in student democracy, and we see that the CCS study from 2009 shows that Norwegian students have better knowledge of democracy and society than the average of students who participated in this study. So we have a good starting point that we can do even better. We are working in the department to strengthen student participation and democratic understanding. In December 2011, we sent a mission to the Education Directorate asking them to create guidance material for student participation and democratic understanding in high school. At the same time, the Directorate has sent proposals for regulatory changes related to student participation in initial training to be consulted. It is proposed that pupils should have the opportunity to work on pupil council-related matters during their training period, but it is linked to the proposed termination of pupil council work as their own subject. The letter of assignment relates to the development of an action package with guidance material for pupils and teachers working in the field of student participation and democratic understanding in high school. It builds, among other things, on the recordings of the student organisation which they presented in their consultation with the WCC to that effect. The Directorate-General for Education is to develop guidance material for the work on local student participation strategies, and we will consider whether to create a national electronic idea bank where proposals for such strategies can be put together. But this is about the broad picture of how we further develop student democracy within what is today's legal and contractual work. So I think that at each school, students can be involved in discussions about what kind of skills you need at school, involve students in what kind of feedback you can give to teachers and use the student survey well for it, that teachers themselves invite students to discuss what is good training and not, and what is their own strengths and weaknesses, and that principals and school management take students seriously if they have objections to teachers they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1421	I would first of all like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for a good and full answer. At least I experience the basics: that we very much agree that it is important that the students are taken seriously. It is important that they are heard, and that they are allowed to participate actively in the design of their own school day. How can this be done in practice, we have a lot of identical ideas and different thoughts about it. Firstly, it is an interesting proposal by the school management to ask for input into what criteria they should look for in an employment process, that students are allowed to make representations about what they want and look after in a teacher, and what should be emphasised, for example, in the context of the study. the appointment of a position and subsequent job interview with the teachers. Furthermore: I think it with Idea Bank seems very exciting. I hope the work on it continues and that you get there. I would also like to stress that with personal chemistry. It was not my intention to facilitate students to assess whether they think they are cool or exciting, not that personal chemistry. What I meant is that when it comes to employing good teachers, you have the professional, concrete knowledge that is laid down on paper in terms of education and character. But you also have other elements that are important in a recruitment process. That's exactly why you initially have interviews. As to the personal characteristics that then emerge: At Sandvika secondary, they had a test lecture where the students got to attend and assess whether the knowledge dissemination, communication and dissemination skills of these teachers corresponded to the requirements and qualities they were looking for in their teacher. Further: Of course, we need to protect jobseekers. It is never the intention for students to decide who to hire. You have to have a quality assurance there, and you also see that in very many other professions there are representatives from the trade union who come along and are observers during the recruitment process, who do not have a direct influence on the decision. But they are involved and can make their assessment in the evaluation after the job interview. That it's practical, we see that it is. Among other things, in Batnfjord, the Board of Students has selected two student representatives who have come with them from the rest of the student mass what they want them to look for and who are involved in the interview process. At Sandvika high school, on the other hand, they had chosen a model where the class in question, which was to have either a history teacher, a social teacher or an English teacher, was allowed to assess that teacher. So there's several ways to do it, and it's important that the local adaptation is taken into account. What I'm asking you after the Minister of Knowledge's answer is – because it didn't seem obvious that exactly this is the way to do it – whether I can understand the answer so that the Minister of Knowledge is negatively inclined to exactly this method of doing it. Do you want to prevent more schools from doing the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1439	If we take a little reality check, I think it's unfortunately very many places that there aren't ten teachers in line and applying for each individual teaching position. For very many schools and for principals working on this, the struggle for competent teachers will not be about having a lot to choose from, but about being able to appear as an attractive school, with school development and good support around their teachers to attract professionals and good people. The child ombudsman shall be replaced because his/her annual target period expires. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality has set up a process in which a group of children have now been gathered on the weekend to discuss what kind of qualifications they want to attach to a new child ombudsman, who may be what is highlighted in the vacancy notice, and can guide the Minister for Children and Gender Equality in making a mission to those who will help him recruit for that position. That's what I think is an interesting way to get children's involvement in advance. Then that process is also about children interviewing the applicants, but not in the regular job interview. But they can give an assessment of whether this is a person who can communicate with children. I don't think it's natural to add up to the same procedure for interviews with teachers. Those who are applying for a teacher's job and who have a teacher's competence with them are professional people who initially have the training to communicate with children. I also think it is practically difficult to implement it, and I think you would have great challenges with regard to the agreements you have with the parties, with regard to the way in which it is implemented. I do not know the examples that the representative Hanekamhaug specifically refers to. Of course, I don't want to do anything to stop or prevent single schools from developing ways of working on this, but I don't see this as a natural way of working on the recruitment of teachers. What I think is the way to go is that at every school you find ways to give feedback on the learning environment in general, but also on teachers in their situation – based on student studies, or other ways in which students are invited to do this. I've hired a lot of people in my time. It's not always that the first impression is the one that should determine what kind of employee you choose. So we're dependent on competent people employing competent teachers, and that's what school management and school owners are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1454	I am grateful for the debate initiated by the representative Hanekamhaug, and I am delighted to present the views of all three government parties from the big team. I want to start by joining in the reflections that the Council of State has shared, and will link a few brief remarks to the discussion that has taken place. First to student participation in general: it is clear that student participation is important. There is a lot of good and thorough research that shows that when students feel that they have influence over their own everyday school life, it can be important for motivation and for learning outcomes. Student participation has a pedagogical effect by activating the students. The opposite is one-way communication from the teacher, making the students passive spectators their own learning. In general, student participation is also mentioned in the primary school report, which we have just discussed. In addition, student participation has a rather prominent place in the curriculum of the Knowledge Lift, and that is also something of which there is broad political consensus. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘Teaching involves participation in decisions relating to learning, both for each individual and for the group. In an inclusive learning environment, student participation is positive for the development of social relationships and motivation for learning at all stages of training.’ It is also clarified that it is natural for student participation to depend, among other things, on student participation. age and level of development. As government parties see it, this is the right starting point for student participation. That was the general considerations. The starting point of the interpellant is student participation in a specific area, namely the interview and recruitment processes of teachers. Before I go into the school situation, like the Council of State, I would like to commend the initiative recently taken by Minister for Children's and Gender Equality Audun Lysbakken in the recruitment of a new Children's Ombudsman. He's put together a panel of eight kids to help him find the best candidate. These children should express their opinion on what they think is important in the job as children's representatives, and their opinions should be emphasised. The usual criteria for hiring someone in such a job are still the starting point, but the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality should also listen to the opinions of children when deciding which requirements are to be set for the new Children’s Ombudsman. It is an exemplary and unique initiative. The slide includes children in an important question for children, while making it clear that it is the adults who bear the employment responsibility. It's the government parties' opinion that this is a nice way to include children and young people in an employment process, and we thank the representative Hanekamhaug for giving us the opportunity to raise the initiative of the Light Hill here, too. Although the Lighthouse initiative is a fine model of participation, it is not necessarily such that it can be transferred immediately to the school situation. What is important, however, is that students — by being given the opportunity to participate — should not be given a responsibility that they do not have. An employment process has many formal aspects and may also involve the handling of confidentiality-related information, and students cannot be expected to handle it. It would be unreasonable, both to the students and to the applicants for the job. In other words, student participation is best when it is concrete, when it is inclusive, and when it is adapted to the students ’ assumptions. Participation shall not be, and shall not be, experienced as, the transfer of responsibility from teachers or school management to students. Government parties would like to encourage schools to put student participation in general on the agenda and would like them to develop good strategies and practices together with the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1472	The interpellant addresses an interesting topic, student participation in school, but with regard to the specific proposal, I was not more convinced by the interpellant's articles here. The Council of State pointed out in its intervention to key points why it is unwise to give students a role in recruitment processes, as advocated by the representative Hanekamhaug. Nor can the right support the proposal as described in the interpellation, but this gives me the opportunity to link some comments to student participation in the school more generally and the significance of it. The right is concerned with ensuring the participation of students in school everyday life. Involvement of students and their opinions in the further work of the school is a way of strengthening students' motivation. By listening to the students, the school can regularly get the impression of things that work well or that can be improved. But it's a point for the Right to involve the students in issues where they have good assumptions to contribute. For this reason, the Right in the case of the secondary school notification promoted a proposal to maintain the subject-matter of pupil counselling and a proposal to help all schools put in place the trainer for educational assessment. Now that I hear both the Council of State and the representative of Hadia Tajik praising student participation, I understand even less that great resources are being invested in developing such a supervisor and then making it voluntary for the school to use it. If you are concerned about getting this under the skin, you should also say that this was something the schools systematically used to really raise student participation and get the good dialogue in the educational situation. Right, this way of engaging students is positive, and involving students in everyday school life is an important way of letting them get involved. However, I have to admit that I am surprised that the interpellant and the Progress Party will not retain the subject of student work and will not contribute to the teaching assessment guide being used in all secondary schools, but now calls for the students to be involved in interview and employment processes. It is not easy to get an eye on the logic or the thread of these political curvatures. Right? We think we need to think about what level and in what matters it's right to involve students in school. Recruitment is an important decision. Assessing whether an applicant is qualified for the advertised position requires special knowledge and requires assessment. In view of this, it would seem to be too much responsibility to put on students' shoulders to involve them in the recruitment processes at school, as the proposal outlines. Applicants for a job must see the recruitment process as professional. It has to do with their legal certainty. This is why we believe that we are opposed to involving students in the recruitment process. Although the right opinion may have positive aspects with a greater degree of student participation and influence in school, we still recognise that not all tasks in school are equally suitable for it. Although the Right agrees with the intention of helping students in school to create more motivation, we do not think the proposals of the Advance Party in this context are the way to go. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Hanekamhaug, that if this is the case that the Progress Party is now so concerned with student participation and argues so strongly about it, it might be appropriate to consider whether to vote in favour of proposal No. 16 and 21 who come to voting during the afternoon, because there are concrete proposals on student participation, which it is difficult to understand that the Progress Party can oppose after this interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1487	I would like to thank you for a good and constructive debate. I think it's been very exciting to hear the different approaches on this topic. I think that, basically, one very good thing has come out of this debate, and that is that we have been raised to student participation and how important it is in school. It has not been as much discussed before, and I am pleased that we have discussed it and that we are bringing it forward. I believe that when it comes to responsibility for your own learning and stimulating greater commitment among the students – both in everyday school life, in your own everyday life and in democracy – it is important that we discuss how we can strengthen their voices and send a signal to the students that their opinions are actually important. Both the representative Tajik and the Council of State were concerned with the incredible importance of student participation. But I'm afraid it may seem more like party talk and great fine words, but little concrete action. When it comes to being involved in things like this, for example. Teacher evaluation and educational evaluation, it is important that students are actually allowed to participate – and not just are told that yes, your opinion plays a role, but no, we do not facilitate it being heard in concrete forms at school. I think that's important that we get in place. The representative, Hadia Tajik, was also concerned with the importance of having good assumptions that should be included in such an employment process, it is precisely the students who have good assumptions to express themselves on how they experience that stimulation of engagement and better learning through their teachers. It is very important to stress that students should not be held responsible in any way for an employment process or the recruitment of a specific teacher, but rather be allowed to be one of the very many elements considered when actually recruiting a teacher. We in the Progress Party have not made any concrete proposal, as the representative of Aspaker mentioned in his statement might do. What we wanted here in this interpellation was to discuss first what signals to send to the schools that have chosen to do this, and to other schools that might snoop on the same scheme, and to get a general debate on how to strengthen students' participation in school everyday life. But – as I said – I thank you for a good debate and hope that we can bring it forward. I take a very positive view of the Council of State's idea of facilitating students to make recordings prior to the appointment of teaching positions and prior to the recruitment interviews on which criteria school managers and staff managers should actually look into the further employment interviews.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1498	I thank you for a good debate that makes it very clear that there is no one in Stortinget who wants to change the actual responsibilities in relation to who is going to hire teachers in Norwegian school. It's the municipalities and the principals, or the counties and the principals, who are responsible in these contexts, and there's nothing to relax about on the students. It's because there are professional people to be hired, there's competence to look after. What the discussion really is about is how to keep up with this law and the contract work so that students are invited to have views about the kind of skills you need in school and how to give feedback along the way. I think it's important to take that discussion further. The student organisation, together with the Education Association, has committed itself to this and has its guidance on how this can be done locally. There is also a lot of good work going on around the schools when it comes to it. I think this is a relatively small part of the student democracy, but it is essential that the students be involved in the decisions to be taken in a day-to-day school, when possible, without making any kind of cheating democracy where it seems that they have a different influence than what they actually have. I think that's also a little bit – what to say – confusing in the training of democracy. But I'm absolutely sure you can get good discussions around this around the schools. So I am glad that the discussion has shown that there is a broad consensus that the laws, regulations and agreements we have today for employment apply, and then we can work on how to strengthen the students' participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1507	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1523	I have wanted to put this topic on the agenda because I am concerned about the government's willingness to implement measures that improve security. However, the government has noted positively by introducing a mandatory boat licence, but there is still a long way to go. Let me give you an example. There is no comprehensive overview of injuries associated with the use of recreational craft, only of the number of fatalities in such accidents. Since 2000, 353 people have been killed in recreational boat accidents. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a rising trend. While 24 died in Norwegian waters in 2007, 33 died in 2010. There are about 380 000 recreational boats over the size of the jolles in Norway. That means we have about one boat per ten inhabitants over the age of 18. There's a boat density in the top of the world. The safety of passengers and drivers of recreational craft is therefore a serious challenge. But in order to improve safety at sea, there are several concrete measures that we can take. Some are expensive; other measures restrict the freedom of seafarers. I'll mention an example that's none of the parts. Recently, we have seen fatal accidents involving racing hook boats. In this way, the summer of 2011 was very dramatic. Then nine people died in two series of serious pleasure boat accidents. When the police routinely investigate such accidents, they only assess the existence of criminal offences. The case is settled if this is not the case. In order to carry out preventive work, it is very important to know the underlying cause of these accidents. I will go so far as to say that the public has a claim to know the reason, if this can be revealed. Is the type of boat the cause of the accident? Are those bad sailing skills? Is there a technical defect? Is that the marking along the coast and at sea? The State Disaster Commission for Transport is ideally suited to providing answers to these questions. The Disaster Commission is our Public Investigation Commission. The aim is to investigate matters which are presumed to have an impact on the prevention of transport accidents. The Disaster Commission shall not rule on civil or criminal liability. This Commission started in 1989 with aviation and has been extended for 20 years to include rail, road and maritime transport. But it does not include pleasure boat accidents. It is rather strange that a professional fisherman who is a casualty on a recreational boat is being examined by the Commission, while a fisherman who does the same is not being examined. In the autumn, the Economic and Social Committee examined Prop. 143 L for 2010–2011 on amendments to the Maritime Act. We have noticed that the government did not propose the obligation to investigate accidents at work where no one has lost their lives. Seafarers’ organisations and the LO objected. With regard to the safety of recreational boats, the Royal Norwegian Boat Federation was aware that they wanted serious pleasure boat losses to be covered by the obligation to investigate. However, Document 15:1925 for 2010–2011 states that the Ministry of Industry and Trade did not propose such an obligation to investigate, including: for resource reasons and that there is no such requirement in international legislation. The government would not order the Commission to investigate boat accidents because this cost so much money. Well, the right has figured out what this would actually cost, and we also got the answer. That's interesting reading, and I quote from the answer to question 408 from the Financial Committee, by the Right fraction, of 18 October last year: ‘Over the last 10 years, an average of between 30 and 35 persons per year have died in recreational boat accidents divided between 25 and 30 accidents. If SHT were to investigate these accidents, it would require 6-7 new maritime inspectors and 1-2 administrative posts. In addition, it would require increased costs related to the practical implementation of the studies. SHT has estimated that the budgetary consequences of investigating pleasure boat accidents will be 8.2 million. kroner per year. If the obligation were to be reduced to two or more fatalities, the use of resources would be significantly smaller as most accidents have only one fatal occurrence.» In the Right's Alternative Budget, we've taken this into account. We have put in a start-up grant of 5 million. kr, in order to enable the Commission to investigate the serious recreational boat accidents that may occur in 2012. The government's reluctance to the Disaster Commission and pleasure boat accidents seems to me to illustrate the government's commitment to maritime safety quite well. They sail in foreign waters while they have landed and thrown the draft overboard. The example I have shown is a targeted measure that I hope the Council of State can press to its breast today. I am aware that the Council of State has put down a commission, a new sample, to assess these questions. However, I am interested in what thoughts the Council of State itself has made about safety at sea, and especially about pleasure boat accidents. What concrete measures does the Minister want to assess? I also record that the Council of State has not even considered this important issue in the past, but chooses to refer to the work of a government-appointed commission. I do not think it should limit the good debate we are going to have today. Anyway, I'll go a little bit deeper on this topic. Another very targeted measure to strengthen safety at sea will be to provide, inter alia: The rescue company has a more central role to play. All good forces are needed to secure our coast, and the Rescue Company has long traditions in Norway. Unfortunately, the Rescue Company has also had tight conditions under this government. They applied for 75 million. kr from the government, but was eaten off by 44 million. kr. And then they got 10 million. kr extra, after the government had cut the funds for fishing ports. The red-greens take from one part of Coast Norway and give to another – not exactly a win-win situation. In addition, the conversion of the distribution key for tipping agents will result in a very negative impact on the rescue company. I await the Council of State's response and come back further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1558	The representative of Schou questions which concrete measures should be taken to reduce the number of serious accidents involving recreational craft at sea. Unfortunately, in the summer of 2011, several serious accidents occurred by recreational boat, with several fatalities. It's awfully sad when what's going to be a good experience, that's being at sea, gets a tragic outcome. Extra evil is when young people with their whole lives go away. That's why I'm concerned that we now have to look at what steps can be taken to reduce the number of accidents at sea. Those who took part in the debate in connection with the interpellation with Kari Henriksen here in this Chamber on 20 October last year will remember that we had a constructive debate where I, among other things, set out the measures taken by the Government. I then informed that a broad-based working group was set up to assess the safety of recreational craft in a broad perspective, including an assessment of the causes of accidents. All public services involved in maritime safety are part of the working group. I have given the working group a deadline of 1 April 2012 to submit their report. However, government and other actors do not sit still and wait for the report of the working group. There is ongoing work to prevent accidents from occurring, both among public authorities and private actors. For example, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs: continuous monitoring of the safety of recreational craft and planning arrangements for summer activities with awareness-raising campaigns and information measures. Together with Vis Sjövett and the Rescue Company, the Maritime Directorate will also organise the Maritime Days this year, where thousands of school students will gain knowledge of seawear. In addition, the Maritime Directorate is working on the introduction of a voluntary international boat driving licence, which is planned to be offered to boat drivers already in the spring. The coastal works also work to make the coast safe and accessible for pleasure boats and plan, among other things. marking an internal joint for recreational craft over the Rack Bays in Westfold, an unclean water that is demanding to cross for recreational craft. In addition, the Coastal Plant will now assist local authorities in developing local navigation regulations where these are not provided for. As is well known, the rescue company also makes a formidable effort at sea and plans its activities for the 2012 boat season. In addition, the Clean for the Sea, a joint project between private operators and the authorities, including in 2012, at boat fairs, festivals and other events, will focus on the use of alcohol and boating. In addition, the police are making an important effort to enforce the rules at sea. They carried out more than 8 000 inspections last year. Following the initiative of the Royal Norwegian Boat Federation, a split layer was established between public authorities and private operators just before Christmas to launch a comprehensive study on recreational craft. This will be the most extensive study on the use of recreational craft ever conducted in Norway. The results of this study, which is expected to be ready in March, will provide a better basis for all actors to make good decisions. I would also like to remind you that in recent years more measures have been put in place to contribute to increased safety at sea using recreational craft. Among other things, this government has introduced requirements for compulsory boating licences, we have introduced a sanction system for those who commit serious violations of the Code at sea, and we have taken the initiative of an awareness-raising campaign on the use of vests for adult men in 2010 and 2011. A number of improvements have also been made to the fairways in recent years in order to provide ships with a safe navigation. So there is a whole range of activities, and good work is being done by both public and private actors to reduce the number of accidents at sea. But all those who have worked with safety – whether for recreational boats or for commercial traffic – know that laborious and systematic work is required over time to increase safety at sea. There are no simple grips or individual measures that can lead to a dramatic fall in the number of marine casualties in the short term. However, I am confident that the Maritime Director and all the agencies that are now involved in the working group will turn each stone to see what measures can be taken to improve the safety of recreational craft in the long term. I look forward to seeing which proposals the working group will promote, and I can assure you that the government will carefully evaluate all the measures. At the end of the seventh, the most important contribution to safety at sea is, however, that each boatmaster makes sure to show good seawear and takes into account the dangers that we know it is associated with moving on the sea. No matter what actions we jointly put into action – and we will put in place many – it is also the individual responsibility for safety at sea that will determine whether we are successful in dealing with accidents at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1584	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. The boat life is very important for very many Northmen. We're among the countries in the world that have the highest density of recreational boats. We also have long traditions in our country as boat builders and users of the sea. It's a link for generations. When I hear the Council of State mention all the good things that this government is doing in this area, I just have to say that in terms of the prevention part, with the boat driver's license – I can otherwise recommend this to the Council of State, because I have been the holder of such a boat driver's license for 20 years now – more information, studies done in collaboration with Royal Norwegian Ship Association to look at how the use of a recreational boat is actually, all these are good and important things. I also have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State meets the good selection work that will be done on 1 April, because I think there will be good initiatives. However, what I am very skeptical about is that these tragic and very extensive events, with many deaths that we have had in recent years, and with the increase in the number of deaths that also occur when recreational boats are used on the sea, have not already resulted in the fact that the Council of State will in fact introduce also for this type of accident the obligation to investigate, which has gradually expanded its operation since it was established in 1989, from road to rail and boat – all that is under the auspices of the Havari Commission – and that the Council of State and the Government can also now think of something and say that the obligation to investigate will also apply to the recreational boat accidents, such as: more than one deceased and dead. It is clear that I understand that this is about resources, but it is also about the use of the competence that lies within the Harvari Commission, and that it is important that we get knowledge about the causes: Is that the labelling that we responsible authorities are responsible for? Is that the boatmaster's role? Is that the design of the hull, or is there any other technical thing? The fact that it had been able to use the Disaster Commission, that it had had a duty to investigate this type of accident – tragic and terrible accidents that hit – I would probably have expected the Council of State to respond on its own, instead of referring to a sample work coming on 1 April. I'm very sorry to say that it might seem like the Council of State thinks this is for trivial tasks for a breakdown commission. I really hope that I am wrong about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1599	This is a full opportunity for the Disaster Commission to deal with the matters that they themselves want. The question is whether a general obligation to investigate all such types of accidents should be imposed. We haven't found that to be a resource equivalent yet. And then we'll see if this investigation now brings other views on this. We're open to hearing the results. I believe that we need to constantly assess whether the resources we put in are working best when it comes to bringing down the number of accidents. The objective must be that the use of resources reaches the maximum possible result.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1606	We have no life to lose, neither at sea. But unfortunately this happens, and it is not only the demanding weather conditions along the Norwegian coast that take life, but also the fact that we put ourselves at risk. With the Romjulsorgan Dagmar fresh in memory: Norway often has demanding wind, sea and temperature conditions. Norway has one of the world's largest densities of recreational boats, as was also said here. Many cities in Norway use a boat all year round, including for the carriage of passengers, for work and school, and not least for the hire of tourists. Here's the main challenge value, I'll say. But unfortunately, in the evening and at night, filling and speed have proved to be a game of life, not only for one person, but also for others. Most people don't run alone either. One likes to have the boat full of partying people. There is such a danger one should refuse. That's how we have to prevent that from happening. What to do is present theme. There may not only be one answer to it, but more. Today, life jackets and floating equipment are available in the boat, but putting on the west is unfortunately far inside. And who's the one that was drooling the most? Well, it's Father, who confidently expects to deal with him falling in the sea. Fortunately, the Stoltenberg government has introduced requirements for boat drivers' certificates for those born on or after 1 January 1980, and boat drivers on larger boats than 8 metres and/or greater than 25 horsepower. We in the Workers' Party's big group have taken the opens over us. Although age is higher than requirement, almost 15 representatives have now applied for the boat driver’s test for spring. There are many holding campaigns that have been tried, which we must also continue with. We need to assess whether the legislation is tight enough today. This is done continuously. Our Minister for Fisheries and Coast has started the Coastal Station to look at the speed limits. This is important. This option assesses whether a municipality should continue to allow for different speed limits, or whether it should have the same rules everywhere. Outside the port district, the coastal works themselves can take individual decisions on the speed limits. The coastal works must specifically assess new regulations which can improve the safety of coastal voyages. In addition, the Minister of Industry has described in a brilliant way what has been done by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Labour Party believes this is an important topic to debate, and I am very pleased that a working group has now been set up that looks at maritime safety along the whole coast, and that assesses all aspects related to the safety of small boats. We look forward to the group coming up with its recommendations and conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1623	How many tips and samples are we going to have? How many committees should operate and work before making concrete proposals? How many lives will be lost along the coast before we sit down and agree on objectives, means and instruments? I'm going to use a couple of examples, but first I'm going to give a big reward to the interpellant who's taking up the problem. It's a big and important issue that's being raised here. The Council of State had in mind its answer that, of course, the Committee on Disasters can choose to raise the matter on its own. But the question is whether there should not have been any leads so that one should address the matter precisely within the given criteria, because the course of events is very important in some contexts. Very often, when you look at the news after a pleasure boat or small boat accident, you say that it is believed that there has been a high speed despite the fact that there have been no witnesses. They say that there can be alcohol inside the picture and you can go crazy. It is precisely this that a review of the course of events should be able to show, so that, among other things. the relatives should be able to know what is the actual course of events, and not just get any assumptions that come there and then. It's clear it's resource-intensive, but there's a lot here in the society that's resource-intensive and that we're actually using resources to figure it out. I think in the case of these pleasure boat accidents, it's important that we do some. As the representative Heggø had in mind, the Stortinget has also taken a number of decisions. A per mille limit has been set at sea, a life jacket has been required on board a boat – not on people, but on board a boat. The one thing that's missing is how to follow it up. It is especially true that we introduce a per mill limit at sea, but those who are to control the per millle limit do not have a boat. No, then you're going to stand on the pier and try to wave people in: come here, we have to take a pill check on you! This is a fact. From this pulpit, former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget has stated the following, and that is the fact: From May to September, on the route from Bergen to Trondheim, there is one police boat operating – one! There are many of them in Oslofjord, but there are very few along the coast. In addition to this period, there are no operational police boats. I'm very excited to hear the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade explain to me how they're going to take promilestones. Should they be on the docks when the boats come in, or when they leave? Here's a lot to grab. With regard to the rescue company, the government's draft budget was such that the rescue company had to notify itself that if this budget was not amended, two rescue skates might have to be added to the berth. This took up many representatives from the opposition, because this was a deadly weakening of coastal preparedness. Luckily, 10 million came. NOK extra in place, so you can get a slightly better service. It is simply a shame that you couldn't get a sufficient amount in place for the Rescue Company, so that they can continue the amazing effort they make every day along the coast. This is an important matter. We have the same problem with brands and guys. You have ports and fairways that need to be strengthened. Furthermore, it is not possible to get away from the fact that at least along the coast, the City Ship Tunnel is an extremely important measure to put in place both for those who have their work at sea, and also for those who travel along the coast by recreational boat and also for other useful traffic. Once again – at least 18 times – the government will launch a new investigation. This shows that there is a terrible amount of talk and incredibly little action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1640	I would like to thank Mr Schou for raising an important question. This is a matter that has been discussed many times before here in the Chamber, both in interviews and in connection with other matters, for example. the action for amendment of the sea law. There have been several wide discussions and relatively large consensus that this is an area that needs great attention from this room. It's tragic when someone loses their loved ones in marine accidents. Last summer we had too many accidents, and that's a situation we have to avoid in the future. To meet this challenge, we need to gain insight into the development of recreational craft. This is why the government has set up a wide-ranging working group to address this issue. At the same time, it is important to have a public debate on these issues and to put action into action in parallel with the distribution of the work group. As we have previously seen in this Chamber, there is no simple, concrete action or single action that solves the major challenge we are facing. Once we have discussed this in this Chamber before, we have come to the conclusion that there is a wide range of measures that need to be addressed and explored in order to come up with concrete proposals in order to meet the major challenges we face. Great speed and lack of use of vests are probably some of the main reasons for the negative developments we have had in accidents involving recreational boats. We have to consider imposing a requirement that the lifejacket should be on and not just included. It is also important to look at the speed limits in coastal waters. The development of recreational boats has been dramatic lately. We've got a lot of boats with a lot of speed, and we've got quite a lot of traffic in the summer months. In the area I come from, around Kristiansand, there's crunchy water, and when not all places are speed limits, it's a challenge to avoid problems. If one of them has pro-mille in addition, it's almost possible that accidents can happen. Another area that we have to look at in addition to the rules, laws and possible sanctions in relation to laws is competence. There, this government has taken action by introducing a boat driver test for those born in 1980 or later. This means that gradually the drivers of the recreational craft will have taken the driving test. This means that we gradually increase the competence of those who are in recreational boats. It's perhaps one of the most important steps we can take -- knowledge, which will lead to restraint, which comes in addition to what goes on under restrictions and laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1655	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing an important question, which many people are concerned about. A debate on the same subject also took place on 20 October last year. In the Center Party, we are very concerned about taking care of the safety of the sea, not least after a number of tragic accidents last summer, with several deaths. These are events that impress us all, and it is important to look at measures aimed at preventing accidents in the future. I would then like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough answer today. From the centre party side, we look forward to a wide review of the legislation and the launch of holding-up work to increase the safety of recreational boats. I further point out that more measures have been taken in recent years to help increase safety at sea using recreational boats. In this context, I will mention the introduction of requirements for mandatory boat drivers' licenses and a detention campaign for the use of life jackets for adult men in 2010 and 2011. There are also a number of improvements to fairways in recent years. In addition, a system of penalties is in place for those guilty of breaches of the maritime legislation. In the light of the accidents last summer, the question of the imposition of lifejackets on recreational craft has been raised as a topic. I think this is input that the Council should look at more closely when you're going to review today's legislation. The per mille limit is another theme that's taken up, which I think one should also look closer to preventing accidents. In addition to legislative and enforcement work, several bodies and organisations are doing important work for maritime safety, and it is important to facilitate good interaction. In connection with this, I would like to refer to the «Clear for the Sea» campaign. With the slogan ‘Being ready for the sea is being ready in your head’, the campaign focuses on getting the boat driver to be sober and have the sea as an alcohol-free zone. The way that otherwise is in the prevention work, there is often a simple grip that means a big difference. If one can do something about them, many accidents and deaths can be prevented. On average, more than 30 Norwegians drown every year in connection with the use of a recreational boat. At least one third of these people have been drinking alcohol. For maritime safety, measures against alcohol use, for the use of lifejackets and for limiting high speed are simple, preventive measures. So simple – and the best thing is that these measures are completely free! I expect the working group to address these preventive measures, and I think it is very good that the Storting put this matter on the agenda as often as they have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1676	Many people might say that they are born skiing on their legs, but for people along the coast – most people living along the coast – it is likely that they are almost born with a boat under their legs. I think it is good that the Council of State should report to the Working Party, and that he expects it to present its report before 1 April. Safety and safety at sea are incredibly important for all those living along the sea, but not least for all those travelling on the sea, whether in a nutritional or a private context and in a recreational context. I think it's good with campaigns like this. ‘Sea view’. It's a good campaign. I also registered that the Council of State was very concerned with the police and the police's role at sea. As far as I know, it's the last summer that half of all the police boats were on land, instead of being on the water and being out helping people, whether they were in an emergency or doing preventive work – which is also an important job for the police. Nearly half of the boats were on land. It must be a great paradox when so many people lost their lives at sea last summer. I really hope that the government, in addition to all the boasts of the Minister of Industry, will take over the fact that so many boats were on land that could actually have been out and operated active service. As I said, mind-creating work is incredibly important. It happens very well, but of course you have to always make sure to keep an even bigger pressure up, because it's that if you're going to move on, the pressure has to be there. It must be there all the time, it must be continuous. I have to say that I was worried when I registered that the government proposed to cut the appropriations for the Rescue Company by over 30 million. SEK – 30 million. kr to those who may be the largest spearhead in terms of saving people, in terms of saving values, and in terms of oil protection and other areas where the rescue company contributes very actively. One of the things that may be most worrying, and that I've challenged the Rescue Company, is, what are the consequences of the cuts you've now done? It has been said that you should ensure that all the boats on standby will still be there. That's good. It was based on getting 10 million in place. Add kr. My fear is that where the Rescue Company is going to cut, the prevention work among children and young people is that you should actually get good training on how to travel at sea, and how to be close to the sea. It's what determines what the future will look like in terms of accident statistics and the gloomy statistics we've experienced in recent years, with an increasing number of people losing their lives. Then I register that when you talk about readiness, it's important to bring the totality with you. Last year we experienced that the government, in addition to the fact that it has not given the Rescue Company the necessary appropriations, cut off in Coast Guard here in South Norway. You had three boats, but it was only one of them that was active. One of the boats that was active was even sent to North Norway for periods, because they had too few days of operation in North Norway and therefore they had to have a Coast Guard there too, so that they did not get a proper and good response at the sea in Southland. I think it's very good that the interpellant addresses this issue, it's an important issue. I also hope that the Council of State will come back in an appropriate way when the working group is finished, so that even more good action can be taken. This is an area where we have no time to lose. Perhaps one of the good actions that could have been done – after carrying out 17 investigations and starting on the 18th. - is City Ship Tunnel. We should have gone through it soon enough. Unfortunately, we know that many people are losing their lives at sea on this route. It's been up over time, so it's definitely an area where you could really do something to reduce the risk to those who are at sea, whether it's in leisure or it's connected to nutrition. So getting into place City Ship Tunnel should be something the government puts ahead, that there might soon be enough investigations and that there is a high time for action. There I would also challenge other parties in Stortinget, for the last time the matter was under consideration, there were only two parties that were clear and clear that we would have this in place, and it was the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1698	I must thank you for a good debate. I must also thank you for the answers that the Council of State has brought to Stortinget today. One spring and one summer will come quickly, and I will attend on 1 April and the working group's investigation. We look at the work of the Disaster Commission over 20 years, we see that from the year 2000 there are 353 people killed in recreational boats. But the government still does not want to impose an investigation obligation on the Commission, because you want to know more once again – and you cut the Rescue Company and set the police boats to dock. Despite the fact that we've had 20-year attitude campaigns on life jackets, boat licenses and more stringent alcohol regulations, the numbers are gloomy. I don't understand that the government and the Council of State can't give the Commission an obligation to investigate, simply because we need to know the actual course of events. It has related claims and expectations about it, we as the governing authorities also have claims and expectations about it, and the insurance companies and a number of other actors have interests in it. This happens despite the fact that the Swedish Maritime Association and the Landsorganisation will have an obligation to investigate, and despite the fact that Royal Norwegian Boat Federation, which is an umbrella organisation for at least the majority of the organisations of the boat crew who travel on the sea in leisure, wants to get a duty to investigate. We know that this will cost $5 million. kr if we limit it to more than one killed – everyone wants us to have a number that is zero, of course – and we know that there are relatively small amounts of money that are needed to get an overview of the course of events, and where we can be far more focused on the measures needed to make the workplaces of the sea and life of all those who live along the sea for leisure, far safer than it is today. After 20 years with the Harvari Commission, and with many years of preventive work at sea, the gloomy figures have killed 353 people since the year 2000 – in eleven years. Over the last few years, between 8 000 and 11000 claims have been reported annually, and claims have fluctuated between 300 and 450 million. kr. Theft and damage are responsible for most of the damages. So there's extensive damage. There are high numbers in recreational boats, which, after all, are a limited activity for very many. I'm waiting for April 1st. I thank you for the debate and look forward to a spring and a summer with still a leisure boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1712	As in the debate we had in October, it is good to see that there is a strong commitment around this matter in Stortinget. I think this is a matter that really doesn't separate us as much as parties or blocks. This is a matter that we are genuinely concerned about, because enjoying ourselves over the sea is something we do independently of party color, and we want security for those who use the sea. Then it may be that when we come to the measures, there will be political disagreement about how far we are going, and how much responsibility we are going to put on the individual, versus what the community is going to take care of. I just have to correct one image: the time we've been in government has the community's transfers to, among other things. The rescue company increased sharply. I myself have been in government and have contributed to the fact that they now receive many millions of kroner from Norwegian Typing, for example. as compensation for the automatic receipts that fell away when this was tightened. Over the ordinary budgets, too, the appropriations have been good. And then we're also going to have to include the input that comes from different representatives here. I'm sure those who work on this in the sample will listen to this in the same way they did in October. Although the date is April 1st, I'm sure the sample understands that these are serious things. We have to follow this up as quickly as possible, to make the summer safe for all those who are going to enjoy themselves at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1723	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1737	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1745	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1753	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 8 and 9, by Mr Tord Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the Right and Left proposals No. 10-13, by Mr Tord Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Right-wing Proposal No. 14, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 15 and 16, by Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 17, by Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 18-21, by Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 22, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 23, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left. In the course of the debate, proposal No. 10, from the Party of Progress and the Right, converted into a proposal for a transmission and then, in amended form, reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government introduce assessment with grades in the electoral field.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a stepping-up plan in order to ensure satisfactory coverage of qualified advisers in Norwegian school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1806	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to take a closer look at the relationship between the subject of education selection and the subject of employment and assess whether these can be combined into one subject where a few hours are made compulsory for all students and a few hours are offered as an alternative to the second foreign language.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1821	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18-21, from the right. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for transitional tests in grade 7 in order to facilitate the start-up of youth and to ensure appropriate training for the pupils.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider introducing the ‘Career Plan’ as a tool for all 8th grade pupils and for completion of secondary education’.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to conduct the written examination in the basic subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English for all 10th grade pupils.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the supervisor to make the assessment of education available to school owners and teachers and to help all secondary schools put the supervisor into service from the school year 2012/2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1853	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all secondary schools offer at least one second foreign language among the electoral professions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1868	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the right, the Christian people's party, and the left. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the simultaneous introduction of the 8 to 10 electoral field in the context of the revised national budget for 2012. steps in small schools, in order to ensure greater breadth of the choice offer.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to continue the subject of pupil council work so that training in democracy and participation still has a visible place in Norwegian school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1890	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to make local adjustments to the choice subjects to be offered at each school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1905	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess social and voluntary work as a new electoral offer from 2013.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the training law § 8-2 in order to provide schools with increased room for action for differentiation in the organisation of education.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose provisions in the Training Act which clarify the right of high-performance students to take higher-level courses and to assign the financial responsibility for such training to the institution on which the student is professionally qualified.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1932	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Prom, right and left. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to add the teacher’s training to a 5-year master’s degree course with emphasis on professional immersion and the combination of theory/practice throughout the study.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate flexible implementation models for PPU in order to contribute to increased recruitment to the study.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e1954	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the dissemination of, for example, 2nd foreign languages through e-learning and distance learning, so that more students can have more foreign languages to choose from’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the KS, is asked to review administrative and educational ICT systems in schools, with a view to freeing up time for teaching.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the New GIV guidelines so that the existing measures for better adapted 10th-stage training can be introduced from 8th-stage.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for recruitment measures such as the ‘Teach First’ programme, in order to improve access by teachers with higher levels of professional immersion at the youth level.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to stimulate testing of a Teacher 2 scheme according to the Lector 2 scheme model in secondary education. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the rate of implementation of continuing education of teachers and school leaders at its secondary schools.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide joint guidance services for primary and secondary education in order to ensure knowledge-sharing and the necessary competence in the service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e2015	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e2023	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-09.ana.ud460e2082	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
