ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e35	They called for alternates, for Hordaland County Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad, and for Nordland County Jon Øyvind Odland, have taken seats. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e46	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vogskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on measuring customer and user satisfaction in road, rail, boat and air transport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e51	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e65	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e74	What we're going to deal with here is a new law on municipal water and sewerage. The main reason for the proposal is to legislate on a general rule that all new water and sewerage facilities should be eight of the municipality. Even today, the municipalities provide water and sewerage services, although this is not a directly required task. Among the 90 pst. 95 pst of the population associated with a waterworks. water from municipal waterworks. The remaining 5 pst. are linked to smaller private facilities, mainly organised as private partner teams eight of the users. However, these should be allowed to operate further, but new water systems for more than 20 households/50 people must be municipal. Sewerage facilities for more than 50 people must be municipal. New facilities for less than 20 households – 50 people – can be accepted by the municipality, upon request, to be organised as a team of eight of the users themselves. This means that, for example: water and drains to a cabin area of more than 20 cabins cannot be established as a pair of eight of the users or similar, even if the local government so wishes. Today's legal situation is that municipalities are free to accept non-municipal installations as part of local self-government. So this right here is going to take the multiples in Stortinget from the municipalities. The basis for the proposal on the requirement of municipal ownership for water and sewage treatment plants is the opinion that municipal ownership will ensure quality, safety and long-termity in the water and sewerage sectors and an opinion that the need for control will be less with municipal ownership than with private ownership – something not all in it. There is simply a split setting in this case. The majority – the government party – naturally supports the proposal and, I suppose, will do the right thing for it, among other things. why municipal ownership will lead to better quality and less control requirements. The minority – the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party – opposes this proposal. The reason is that we can't see that this bill is the solution to anything. The sewerage and sewage treatment plant in Norway is currently in many places in very poor condition. Some places are the age of the plumbing facilities over 100 years. The renewal rate on water and sewer pipes is about 0,7 pst. and 0.5 pst., which means that at the pace of the day it'll be almost 200 years before one gets to replace all the water pipes and drain pipes. The huge maintenance run is causing unfortunate environmental consequences that are likely to increase in the years to come. Maybe as much as 30 pst. leak out of the water as a flow through the waterworks before it appears. The sewerage systems also play in many places, and the risk of draining and mixing with drinking water is present. So this is the situation today. It is therefore difficult to see that legalising what is already the case, mainly municipal ownership, will make the situation somewhat better, perhaps rather the opposite. The important thing here should be how delivery and operational security in terms of water and sewerage, service quality and preparedness should be avoided. It does not respond to this proposal. On the other hand, the proposal limits the freedom of municipalities and thereby weakens local democracy's ability to choose good local solutions and any cooperation with private actors. In addition, the law will probably lead to an increase in red tape to deal with any applications for exceptions to the general rule of law. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party believe, on the other hand, that there is a need for a common sector law that clearly regulates responsibilities and the framework between service providers and subscribers, and therefore promotes proposals to that effect. I suppose the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will also do something for their views on this matter. Finally, I would like to re-examine the proposal, which is behind the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, where we ask that one should promote a common sectoral law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e97	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e100	The change we are making today in the law on municipal water and sewerage systems is among other things. all new water and sewerage facilities shall be owned by the municipality. The inhabitants of the municipality must have sufficient and clean drinking water and a good sewerage network to ensure good hygiene. In order to achieve quality, safety and long-term sustainability in the water and sewerage sectors, the Workers' Party believes that these facilities must be municipal owned. The working party believes that basic infrastructure – such as water and sewerage facilities – in a municipality should be a public matter, both in terms of responsibility and who should own the facilities. In 2004 we had a big case in Bergen with the Giardia bacteria. Several hundred of Bergen's inhabitants became ill with the bacterium, which had come into the drinking water. Drinking water could not be used for several months. This episode showed how vulnerable we are when drinking water cannot be used and is directly dangerous to humans. Maintenance and good control of the facilities is crucial for a good enough standard in the facilities and to avoid what happened in Bergen in the future. The drinking water source of the municipality’s inhabitants may be vulnerable. That's what we saw during the storms in winter. The ownership of the water and sewerage network must be seen in the light of safety and preparedness. The fact that we are likely to go into a period of wetter climate and more extreme rainfall makes the safety and maintenance of water and sewerage systems important. The need for renewal of the mains speaks for public ownership in order to make progress in maintenance, which has a large lag. Municipally owned water and sewerage facilities are provided with water and sewerage fees from subscribers. The revenue from the fees shall be wholly intended to cover the costs incurred by municipalities in the field. A municipality shall not be able to organise itself away from the principle of self-sufficiency. This implies that the law also applies to municipal limited liability companies, which are owned by a municipality, in addition to companies established under the law on intermunicipal companies. In Norway, it is common for the development tasks to be largely outsourced to private operators, while the municipalities themselves are responsible for the operation and management of the facilities. There are a few examples of the private outsourcing of municipal facilities, but this is not common in Norway. Therefore, today’s amendment of the law will be more a legislative act of current practice. Water and sewerage legislation will also be addressed in the expected Landfill Communication to address adaptations to climate change. The legislative proposal is justified in the interests of social security and the future security of water supply and sewerage management. The Party considers that the proposal falls within the scope of the derogation provided for in Article 33 of the EEA Agreement, as public security considerations and public health are covered by the derogation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e130	So here we are going to legislate something that today is de facto legal in many ways: that the municipalities are responsible – a natural responsibility – for the water and sewerage sectors. When the Right nevertheless chooses to go against it, it is because we have previously called for a broader sector law, which was also in the hands of the case rapporteur, Mr Hagesetter, and which we propose. We feel that what the government parties here are proposing, in a way, is to open doors, saying that we should legislate the sole responsibility of the municipalities for waterworks, without saying anything more about responsibilities, about security – about the things that a sector law should mention. It's going to be a bit like the big message that's been notified a year from the government, about the relationship between the state and the municipality. There is obviously so much internal disagreement in the government that there has never been a notification. Instead, the Council of State presented a communication just before Christmas on the legalisation of a joint municipality. This is a little bit the same thing. Here you're going to kind of show your power of action without actually entering the substance. The right considers that a municipality is responsible for the water supply today to be taken seriously. There are no Norwegian municipalities today that have privatized their waterworks. But there are some municipalities that have cabin fields in the mountain, where they might go in as partners, and where they will leave to a share team to control this waterworks. The crucial thing for us is that there are regulations, that there are rules on water plant safety, water supply, etc. That's what matters. The right considers that this proposal has no special advantage, because the legal situation is actually such that it is the municipalities that are currently carrying out the water and sewerage work. Then there has been some debate about this bill. There is a part that believes that too much emphasis is placed on private operators operating maintenance, and that they should do the work – I kept saying – on the practical arrangements for the waterworks. That seems to be positive to the right. Clearly, it is positive that there are private actors in here. It's the municipality that's in charge anyway. So we don't see any point in legislating this. We believe that today's legal state shows that the municipalities are conscious of their responsibility. Then this becomes a small lacmus test also on how much trust we have in Norwegian municipalities. We have great confidence in Norwegian municipalities. We trust that they will do this work for their citizens in a good way without the Storting having to legislate on it. This is also a taste of what we have in store, probably, in the big message that has been notified for a long time, but that never comes, about the relationship between state and municipality. Are we going to leave to the municipalities to actually take responsibility for producing services for their inhabitants without the state always having to go in with law enforcement? The right considers the latter, namely that the municipalities take responsibility, they should be given responsibility, and they should be able to decide even more on what is important to define as a core task to be carried out by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e143	This is a matter which is a direct follow-up to the proposal promoted by Trygve Magnus Schlagsvold Vedum and Per Olaf Lundtägen, who gained broad support in Stortinget – in fact, wider than the law gets when it is promoted. As far as I can remember, the Christian People's Party in its time was a supporter of such a law, precisely because they shared the view that we from the government parties had, that there is a need to ensure that completely central infrastructure in society is at the hands of the public. It's good to ensure social security, but – as we see it from the Red-Green parties – it can't be like some of the financial experiments we saw during the financial crisis, taking part in public infrastructure and selling it out, and then renting it back again, because the municipality has a responsibility to provide water and sewage for its inhabitants. We cannot see that the kind of speculation is appropriate in such an important area as the water and sewer infrastructure is. I would like to ask what is the reason why the Christian People's Party – and then we'll see what the Left is doing here in the Chamber today – joins such a liberalist position, as I'd like to see it as, open up to, and to a greater extent, raise the voice of, private actors to own in the field of infrastructure. I heard that the Right Representative was not actively in favour of this, because he pointed out that this is the legal state of the day, but there is no doubt that this is what is underlying, among other things. for the view of the Party of Advancement. There was a discussion for some time back in some municipalities where you looked at the possibility of doing what you do in some other European countries, selling your infrastructure and renting it back again, in order to save money and free money from the municipality – but thus permanently lose control of as important infrastructure in society as the water and sewerage network is. We're opponents of it. We want the infrastructure that is needed to remain on the hands of the public, and therefore we are promoting this law as it stands here. Let me just comment on some of the other things that have been raised both in the comments and in the debate. On the part of the government parties, we have not gone into the comment that it is unacceptable and unsustainable that we have such a large maintenance seat in the municipalities of Norway as we have today. The reason is that the exact same representatives of exactly the same parties – both the majority and the opposition – are sitting around in the Municipality of Norway today and have decided that this is precisely the level of infrastructure and maintenance. It's easy to sit on the Stortinget and sit down on his high horse and just point at the others and say, "You're not doing your job." I believe that we should rather go into partnership with the municipalities and look at what we can do to improve maintenance. There is no doubt that as long as this is a fee-funded self-cost area, it is about that we have to increase the fees. Local politicians around the country need to increase the fees and take the infrastructure investment that is absolutely necessary. I expect that this is one of the things that we'll come back to in connection with the climate adaptation message. One thing is now run-off and leaks from the existing water pipes, but what we see around in many municipalities, and especially in urban municipalities, is how the sewer pipes pose challenges in what is currently extreme weather conditions, but which are going to become more and more normal in the time to come – the normal situation in the sense that you can expect to get that kind of rainfall much, much more often than what you have today. We will then need greater investment in the grid. Today, individual households experience that the municipality may have dimensioned pipes at a level that is too low, such that they have leaks from these pipes, and it is felt that these leaks are affecting you and will lead to increased insurance premiums for the individual's household over and over again, rather than taking the necessary investment at social level. There is a need for the Minister of Environmental Protection to take a broader approach to such a climate adaptation message. I also think we need to look at the funding models and depreciation rules that currently exist for municipal infrastructure, to look at what we can do to get the investment up. Because it's clear that 0.5-0.7 pst. in terms of investment and rehabilitation, which is what we have today, is far too small, and is going to be too small in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e154	Water doesn't have a taste, it doesn't have a color, it doesn't have a smell. 70 pst. the surface of the earth is covered with water. In Norway, we are riddled with water in strike streams. There's no shortage of water, and we've been able to waste water with a good conscience. We nordics take it for granted. It's coming in the crane, and it's cheap. I used water last night, I used it now, I used it today early. We're always using it. The legislative proposal now before us has the background in a Document No. Eight proposals that Per Olaf Lundtigen and I have been promoting on behalf of the Central Party in the last period, and we are proud of the bill that is now here. Fortunately, in Norway we have not had the big political struggles about how everyone should be secured safe and fair water. But if we look a little bit, the battle for water is in many places very serious. The fight for water rights has led to the most serious conflicts. In Norway, we have far from such a reality, but the person who owns the infrastructure will have great power over those who need the life-saving product – you and me. In Norway, public and user-side participation rates are those that own water supply. So we're all in control. Water is a good thing that you have to have at any price. In Norway, we have a well-developed water network. It was a great expansion after World War II. An almost nationwide water and sewerage network was completed in the 1970s, and it continues to expand. A good water and sewerage network is essential for creating good living conditions for people, but there is a significant need for innovation in the grid and in associated sewage treatment plants, and it is with public ownership that we have the best opportunity to ensure all good quality. A municipality may not defer a necessary investment for financial reasons until the law provides for all costs to be covered by the water charge. It is a comprehensive and costly job to put in place basic infrastructure for this sector. In its form it is to deliver water and drain a natural monopoly. There are very few people who realize that they want to dig parallel wiring networks to promote competition. That competition would be very expensive in that case. In such a monopoly as the supply of water, the owner of the grid will have enormous power. It is not desirable for society to subject primary needs and vital services such as water supply to a future regime in which a private commercial operator becomes a purely monopoly. Fortunately, the majority in this Chamber does not believe so and ensures the majority of the legislative proposal submitted. Kofi Other called the water "the blue gold". We look a little bit, we see which battle is going on – somewhere a vital battle, somewhere a purely economic struggle – to get control of the water. Whoever gets control of the water gets power. If we go to England and see what bidding rounds it has been around ownership of water, you see what strong stakes you put in if you open up private ownership in the basic infrastructure that Margaret Thatcher did. One of the largest companies, Thames Water, that delivers water to 8 million people and sewerage services to 13 million people, has been sold and bought several times, and it has been a huge return for those who have been inside the owner's side. The conservative newspaper Daily Mail expressed it this way in a leader under the heading ‘The Great Water Robbery’: «The rulers and shareholders of the top ten water companies in the United Kingdom have been able to use their position as a monopoly supplier to carry out the greatest act of licensed operations in our history.» We do not want this kind of development in Norway – a development in which corporate economic assessments and returns requirements should lead to such a basic service as water and sewerage. We want water and sewerage that has its sole purpose of delivering cheap and good water to everyone, and that has the best of society as its goal, not waterworks that exploit their monopoly to maximum profit for commercial operators. We Red-Green and Christian People's Party were united in this matter when we discussed Document No. The 8th proposal underpinning this proposal. We agreed that those who are going to provide water and sewerage services should have the community's goal as their motivation for the job they do, not profit. For the supply of water is a natural monopoly, and access to water is a fundamental human right. I am surprised that the Christian People's Party, according to the position today, will vote against the law when they supported it in the previous period. The choice we have in this sector is a private monopoly or a public monopoly. We in the Center Party have no doubt about what benefits society the best. It is a safe and public ownership. It ensures this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e183	The blue gold is now largely supplied by the public or so-called user-driven proportion. That's the way it's going to be in the future. So I agree with Trond Helleland, who points out that this law reflects in many ways what is happening today. Today, the water and sewerage network is publicly owned. 90 pst. of the water pipes are publicly owned, and of the 90 pst. supply 95 pst. of the population of Norway. That's the way it's going to be in the future, because I have great confidence that the municipalities are conscious of their responsibility for such important things as delivering this blue gold to the people of Norway. What is important for the Christian People's Party is that we also take local self-determination seriously. I have great confidence that the municipalities, as said, are conscious of their responsibilities in this area, and proposing a law that reflects what is happening today, I put questions to them. What are the major challenges is the state of water and sewerage. In some places, the pipelines are more than 100 years old, and at the rate of today, it may take 200 years for us to replace water and sewage pipes here in Norway. When maybe as much as 30 pst. Of the blue gold that runs out through the water pipes, leaking out today, it's in the area we have the big challenges. This law reflects nothing on it – nothing. This law does not cover the major maintenance tasks we have in ensuring that the blue gold is found where it is going. 30 pst. of the water that today runs through the water pipes disappears. The Committee as a whole is concerned that the importance of social security and security in the area of water supply is crucial. It's the whole committee behind it. So this law doesn't take on the big maintenance tasks, it doesn't take on the big challenges. There is a great weakness in this law. Probably the only thing that can be achieved is that there will be more tasks in the municipalities and that the municipalities and the review bodies will have a little more to do. That's what this law is probably going to lead to. It will not lead to security of water supply and safety for the blue gold to arrive at its destination. This law doesn't reflect on it. That is why the Christian People's Party stands for the comments we have made on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e194	Let me start by giving tribute to Trygve Battle Violence Vedum and others who were behind this proposal. When the Battle of Vedum held up the Norwegian water, I was thirsty to hear it. I don't think it's been better since Nordahl Grieg set up – I think it was in Shanghai in the 1930s – and wrote the most amazing poem about Norwegian water that has ever been written. So Battle Force Vedum gets to use its lyrical powers in this context. But this is a follow-up to a proposal that was discussed in the Stortinget in 2006 — perhaps it was in 2007. It is a follow-up to a Norwegian public investigation, in which the law of public ownership was upheld. The government follows up on what the Storting told us before that we should do. It is true, as has been said by several — Greece and others — that the legal state of the day is that most of it is governed by public law. It is also true that municipal autonomy is important. However, it is also important to ensure the rights of the individual, and in the choice between ensuring the rights of each individual in Norway to water and other considerations, it must be made more weighty. There is a global trend in this area, which has also been discussed by several speakers. While in the 1980s and 1990s there was a strong belief, not least on the right, in privatisation – also on the privatisation of services in society that are natural monopolies – this rabid, ideologically driven privatisation wave is a strong return. In countries by country, the distinction between those areas of society that are suitable for private solutions — and they are many — and those areas of society, especially where there are natural monopolies, which are suitable for public solutions, is seen to ensure that good solutions are available to all. It's this mixture of what's natural private, and what's natural public, that we should strive for. This is an area that's natural public, because it's the basic infrastructure of a society that all people depend on, and it's hard to imagine something more fundamental than the right to water. This is delivered best and safest by the public. Violent violence Vedum describes the situation in the United Kingdom. I can take the South American country of Bolivia, where the battles around water and the privatisation of water were what brought current President Evo Morales to power. It is also a broad global movement to – so to speak – uphold the right to water as part of the global agenda. People's right to water is at least as important as the right to food, the right to housing or other fundamental rights. The proposal can be seen as a pre-war approach, namely that we guarantee these rights, even if the problem is not acute today. But you never know what can come, and I'm glad that the Storting now gives its support to this. Then there are a small number of facilities organized as percentages owned by the subscribers themselves. These can go on after the amendment of the law. The proposal emphasises flexibility and local discretionary considerations. Finally, let me extend a hand to the opposition, because it is clear that the proposal to look much more closely at the costs of water management and whether we have a good enough water management system in Norway, I have great sympathy for. In the context of the climate communication, I would like to provide a comprehensive material on this. In December, I met with the insurance industry, and their main concern at that meeting, which was about climate change, was a water management system. They said that they do have very significant costs related to extreme weather – like the floods in the Gudbrand valley or the Holtålen, not to mention the storms in the West – but on an annual basis, an even greater source of expenditure is probably our poor ability to handle surface water. 2011 was the wettest year in Norway in very, very long – probably the wettest year ever measured – and we had a lot of surface water. It ran into people's basements, they got sewage elsewhere. No one died from this, but it is unpleasant to get the sewer up in the cellar, and it is very, very expensive to repair the many damage that comes with this. The management of surface water in Norway will be a key theme of the climate adaptation message, and we will then come back to the questions raised by not least Beckweld and others here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e215	Water and sewerage are now mainly municipally owned, and there are in very poor constitution many places in Norway. The piping system is located more than 100 years apart. One thing is that the water drains out and mixes with sewerage, another thing is that one can risk draining – a cold sewer before – mixing with drinking water and causing the inhabitants major problems and illness. Then the Council of State says that the most important thing is to secure the individual's justice. That's when I fall off, because I can't understand that there's something in this law that guarantees justice and security and the security of water. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain: What is it in this law that ensures and guarantees the quality of drinking water, so that one does not get sick?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e224	It is the fundamental belief that rights of this kind, which are the fundamental infrastructure on which all people depend, are best guaranteed if they are fully controlled by the public and – not always, but often – if the public also provides those services. Then there are a lot of other parts of society that are best taken care of by the private. This basic belief, which the government parties have, and which I think is actually shared by a lot of people in addition to the government parties in Norway, is that the public is the fundamental element in ensuring the rights of the individual. So I want to extend a hand to the Advancement Party and encourage us to have a joint effort, because it will cost considerable money to get these systems better. Whether it is in the private or public sectors, they come in costs. The costs will have to be borne by many Norwegian municipalities in the years to come, and they will have to take them by levying additional fees and charges on those who depend on it. I would like to encourage the Advance Party to participate in that effort and make sure that the money comes in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e231	This matter was raised as a result of the document No. The 8th proposal, launched in 2007. Then a year went by before it was dealt with in Stortinget, and then the majority parties, i.e. the parties to the government, that it was important now to legalise the municipal ownership ‘in this ageing period’, i.e. the previous, because it was quite extensive work that was the basis of an overall water and sewerage law. Now three years have passed since this simple legalization of municipal ownership was carried out. The question to the Council of State will then be: how does the whole law on water and sewerage go, which is more fundamentally to take care of quality and how crisis preparedness, etc. are connected to water and sewerage? That's the thing that's really the important one here, and as a broad majority, I believe everyone in the Storting, is calling for. When's it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e238	I agree with the representative of Greece that we have two questions here. One is the issue we are discussing today, namely the ownership structure, and the other is how, on the basis of the public ownership structure, we get a better system for the individual. We're going to get back to that, as I just said, in the Climate Change Communication, and it's the government's ambition to present during 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e243	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e248	A good water is a prerequisite for good public health. Man cannot live long without water, and water is a food that must be of high quality. The law states that it is the municipalities, the public, that have to own the water plants. Most of the waterworks in Norway are publicly owned, so a tightening of the law will not change significantly the state of things. With Christmas and New Year's stormy times behind us and an important debate related to preparedness and security for the inhabitants, it would be good to adopt this law and establish that water is a public responsibility. The water network in Norway is facing a major upgrade and is in poor condition. During the hearing, the trade organisation Norsk Water stressed the need for strong investment in this field. This is in agreement with the Committee. Work on the renewal of water and sewerage facilities in Norway must be carried out and the current rate of replacement does not provide sufficient progress. The maintenance phase has adverse environmental consequences, but can also have health effects on the population. Here I can mention my own municipality, Måsøy, which had a massive E. coli outbreak in the 1990s, based on old water pipelines, which also went in the same street as the drain. People got sick, and the municipality came to a recognition that upgrading had to be done, and quickly. Many municipalities do as Måsøy does, waiting for something serious to happen before taking on the necessary maintenance work. It is necessary to make visible to the municipalities the importance of prioritising this important field, for citizens and for public health. In recent years we have become increasingly aware of climate change and results such as floods, floods and races. These factors affect water supply and water quality. The majority of the Committee is concerned with this area and calls for the need for more comprehensive water and sewerage legislation to be assessed in the context of the government’s work on a major communication on adaptation to climate change. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against the bill, because it weakens local self-determination, and that it can reinforce the maintenance challenges that this sector has. On the contrary, we believe that this law strengthens the rights of the citizens and establishes responsibilities. Water is public health and is part of the primary tasks. The primary tasks are a public responsibility, not a private one.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e269	Those who have spoken for this law have started their posts with a tribute to the water as phenomena. I can be in on that, too. Now it's not like the water in Norway is a scarce thing. It could, of course, be the day of the introduction of a more planned economy. Then you will probably get established cows for it also on the consumer side – but we are not there yet. What this matter concerns is whether to force through a municipal ownership in a landscape already dominated by the 95 pst. in Norway, which receives the drinking water from municipal companies. We think that it is bad legislative technique to give laws in an area that is in the best order, while in fact we can see that it removes the attention from what should interest this assembly even more. It is that the Norwegian drinking water, despite the sheer sheath of the Battle of Vedum, is actually not among the best in Europe. Foreign mineral waters and breweries have to do something with water, clean it, because Norwegian water does not meet international purity criteria. This is because we mainly take water from surface sources, while in Europe this is collected from groundwater, so that the water is naturally filtered over several hundred years. So I could imagine challenging the Minister for the Environment, who, in addition to the Minister for Health, should also be interested in Norwegian public health, to provide an overview of how the Norwegian water quality lies in a larger European image. It's a very old-fashioned notion that you run anything in a modern society through ownership. The State has many other instruments if it wants to affect both the price and the quality of any product being traded. In fact, I want to highlight the danger of settling down on the fact that the municipal waterworks are public owned, and are not driven by a profit motive that is so divisive that one also forgets that after profit, tax revenue follows to the public. But when it's said, you settle down that since you're not on a profit hunt, the delivery to the population will automatically be cheap and of good quality. It does not show any international experience. It is only when you have privatised that you have been given a specification of the quality requirements when you go out on the market and pick up the water from private suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e278	As others have pointed out, there is no doubt that water and sewerage are a natural monopoly. As others have also said, today this is essentially municipal eight. I have not seen any plans and I do not know whether some of our 429 municipalities have plans for privatisation. On the other hand, it is a party team. An organisation of cabin areas as private partner teams to build water and sewerage. It may be that the municipality simply does not have the finances for this itself, and that the local government thinks there is an appropriate solution. So now, even if the local government thinks it's an appropriate solution, it's not allowed if there's more than 20 cabins, that is. 20 units. This may be unfortunate and could result in a restriction on many municipalities – without my full understanding of it, of course. Heikki Holmås swings up here and says that this is a liberalistic position. Well, this is just the legal state of the day, which the opposition goes in to keep. Why the representative Heikki Holmås then finds out after six years in government that today's legal state is liberal, I don't know, but he should probably figure that out himself. At least in our opinion, this is not a liberalistic position. This is a reasonable position, and we trust that the municipalities can handle this, as they have done, and as I am absolutely convinced that they will do in the future, without the Storting having to govern the local government in detail. What should have been our theme here is how we can improve the standards of the plumbing system, how we can ensure that the inhabitants are clean and good water. As others have said, there are some places where we have problems maintaining the quality of other countries, as well as EEA requirements. The representative Hilde Magnusson referred to the Giardia scandal in Bergen. In Bergen, the problem was great for many. The representative of Ingarill Olsen pointed to an unfortunate case in the municipality of Måsøy, where the quality of the water supply was reduced. The similarity between these two cases is that there have been no private solutions that have been out and destroyed here. Here are the municipal solutions that have failed. One thing that should have been debated in this matter is how we can ensure better water for the inhabitants. That I see is not solved by this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e291	They say a lot about water, and there's no reason to repeat it all. But the debate is still interesting, because it seems that there is a broad consensus that the situation one has today is good. It seemed to be a broad wish that there is a situation that one should also have in the future. Although both the Right Party and the Progress Party in this debate do not express any basic position that the Community should own this important infrastructure, it seems that a willful current situation exists. Therefore, it is strange when the representative Tetzschner says it is bad law practice to adopt laws in areas where one has an adequate situation today. Well, it must now be good law practice to make the legal changes at that time, when one does not have a situation that is more fragmented about ownership or has a big problem setting around it. Nor does he comment on the sister party of the Right in England's practice in this field, cf. the case in London to which the representative, Mr Vedum, referred. But what's most interesting is the Christian People's Party and the representative Bekkevold, because he emphasizes the same thing: Lova reflects today's system, the supply of safe water is very important. This is entirely in line with the last assessment of the proposal by the representative, Mr Tørresdal, and she supported the proposal on the basis of that argument, i.e. the need to ensure access to, maintenance and quality of water for the future, as Mr Tørresdal said at the time. The question is, what has changed so far that the Christian People's Party has at least apparently now changed its view? If one of mine today's practices is good, and if one thinks that it should be practice in the future in this area too, why would one not be there to support this bill? It does not just seem to be saying that the maintenance process is huge, and that the debate should be about it – one must also take a fundamental position in the debate itself. So I could imagine getting some clarification from the Christian People's Party. I also want to encourage the Christian People's Party – on the basis of both the contribution to Becca violence and the contribution to the Dryersdal in the previous round – to review this matter again before the dissolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e300	As I said in my previous post, this law reflects in many ways what is happening in Norway today. The blue gold, as Vedum called it, is basically the public, the municipalities, who make sure that they get to the users, to you and to me. That's the way it should be in the future, I tried to underline it in my previous post. That is also the view of the Christian People's Party. It was Bjørg Tørresdal's vision in the previous period, and that is our vision today. What is first of all my criticism is that this law doesn't at all reflect any of the big challenge, namely that so much water goes to play through ancient water pipes. We have to do something about that. I guess we'll come back to that when we get a notice of adaptation to climate change. It must then be included, and there must also be proposals for measures that allow us to speed up. For this is not only about water supply, it also has to a large extent to do with hygiene – with public health, simply. In order for there to be no doubt that the Christian People's Party believes what we have meant all along, I would recommend my group to vote in favour of the bill, so that there is no doubt about where we stand. Some of the criticisms have, as I said, been that this bill does not reflect any of the challenges at all. What it can lead to are more case papers in the municipalities. It may be that the Boards of Appeal are getting something more to do. Other things don't change that. But in order for there to be no doubt about where the Christian People's Party stands, I would recommend our group to support the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e309	I get so excited when we get an estimate of a legal debate here in the legislative assembly, where some of us express the view that it is better with necessary laws than with unnecessary laws – if we can avoid unnecessary laws, then we avoid bureaucracy. That is what we have pointed out: this law is no profit but to regulate ownership so that it becomes totally udynamic and prevents local municipalities from making cooperation arrangements with any private waterworks, or resale if they want to. Now the Storting locks this arrangement firmly once and for all. Since we were a little bit concerned with legal policy here, I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Justice and Police has developed a ‘household’ for how to be a good legislator. It's probably particularly outrageous with those who sit and make the suggestions for us in the departments, but it might be worth looking up on page 13 where it says: ‘The choice of the instrument shall always be based on a deliberate assessment. A task should not be attempted through legal regulation without a prior assessment of whether the desired effect can be better achieved or facilitated by the use of other instruments.’;» I think that's a timely reminder. I would also like to challenge the remaining speakers from the government side to define something stronger: what is the problem? What are we going to solve for? So maybe we can get a more meaningful discussion about the solutions in the light of a more clear and precise problem definition. As an extension of what I said in my first post, I would suggest that the problem is that Norwegian water does not hold a particularly high level compared to other countries. I have pointed out that being too busy about who owns the grid can prevent a dynamic and local form of cooperation, and that the state always has the opportunity to intervene if central or local monopolies are to be formed through price regulation, and above all that one should also take the opportunity to set quality standards, and that they might become more relaxed if one believes that non-profit organisations are also smarter and deliver better quality at a lower price. The only thing I think is progress with this law is that one goes from calling it a "sewage charge" to calling it a "drain fee". We all know that ‘drain’ is a somewhat neater word for the same thing, and that the fee should probably be more comfortable to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e326	Thank you for that. I was challenged by my associate Tetzschner at the end, so I thought it was polite to answer the challenge. First, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it is a little liberating that there are also debates in the Chamber in which one actually balances views against one another, and that parties through the debate can also make new recommendations in terms of voting. It's not that often that happens, but it's a good thing that we can have the kind of open debates in the main hall that we've had now. To the representative Tetzschner: the reason why we are now adopting this law, for which there is now a broad majority, is that we do not want to have an opportunity for some municipalities to choose to sell their water and sewer networks, so commercial operators enter the Norwegian water and sewer network. Owning water and sewerage networks is a monopoly, and a private commercial operator who will then own a network will have an excessive market power. Experience from other countries shows that it gives very negative results, and that is why we want to adopt a law now to prevent politicians from the Progress Party and the Right from choosing to do the same in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e335	I also drew myself at the same time with the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum just to say that I was pleased with that recording and the introduction to the Christian People's Party, and to respond to the challenge of both the Advance Party and the Right in relation to the debate – what we are actually discussing today. It was pointed out that we do not discuss the great need for upgrading due to the delays in the water and sewerage works. No, that's absolutely right. That's not what we're discussing here today, because that's not what the bill is about to discuss. The legislative proposal is to ensure that we crush the situation we have today, as Michael Tetzschner called a udynamic situation – that it is the public that governs the infrastructure, because we believe that this is a basic infrastructure that needs to be taken care of in public terms. Then it's a little late to come running at the moment you get a bunch of private players buying in, which the Right Party and the Advance Party spoke of earlier when the privatisation wave was at its greatest in Europe, as Erik Solheim was also about. Then one jumped around and looked at whether one could sell out to American players and hire back again, and thus both free up capital and, in addition, sell out the heirloom, and then face a situation where one does not have full control over the development of the sewer. That's absolutely right. Erna Solberg was asked at the NHO conference if there was anything she could not imagine privatizing. Then she said the defense, and then she said the police. More than that, she dared not say at the NHO annual conference. But we have some things we think it's right not to privatize, and that's basic infrastructure. I have noticed that an old gentleman like Kåre Willoch from the Right has also been aware that there are some types of infrastructure that we need to take care of and operate in public for social security reasons. We are from the left and the centre – that is, the Center Party and now the Christian People's Party – strongly agreed, and that is why we believe it is right to keep this under public control. It is a standing joke that I believe has picked up from the evening post or somewhere else for some time, that one can look at the fees for water and drains in Oslo whether it is election year or not. In election years, water and sewerage taxes did not increase, and between election years, water and sewerage taxes were increased. I think there's a significant point there. It's not sexy to build up the water and sewer network and the sewer, you don't get a choice behind you if you choose to make sure you clean up the sewer network in Oslo. Nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary. That's why it's good this has started in a good part of the larger municipalities, but we still have a long way to go. We'll get back to that, the minister has promised us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e344	Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e347	With all due respect for the representative Holmås, I would say that his posts serve as an excellent example of complete static thinking. The value of municipal, public and in particular the private grid is highest if you think that drinking water sources do not change – that you still need to draw water from surface water, which is not recommended, and which is not the main solution in Europe. If we think for a moment that Norway is considering imposing a requirement for water to be drawn from the ground, the grid in which it is invested and which is based on the surface sources we have will be of little value. Then you can think about whether there will be dents and oat sacks when the state and the municipality will decide on such a quality requirement in the light of the investments they have made, or whether they would have kept a proper distance if it were private that had invested more in this wiring network.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1968]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e373	The climate communication is promised by many as the major political issue in 2012, including by the people in the government parties – not because there is uncertainty about what to deliver in the communication, because the framework for the notification has been drawn up and adopted by a broad majority here on the Stortingen in the climate agreement. The uncertainty is linked to whether the government intends to follow up on what has been adopted. Recent media spills and government leaks indicate that this uncertainty is well justified. In the climate agreement concluded at Stortinget on 16 January 2008, the overall objectives of the Government’s Climate Change Communication were maintained. Norway shall reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. by 2020 in relation to 1990 levels. The negotiations here at Stortinget and the subsequent conciliation focused on the proportion of emission cuts to be taken nationally. The parties agreed that the range from the Climate Change Communication could be extended to between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent in relation to the reference track when forest is included. This means that about two thirds of Norway’s total emission reductions are to be taken nationally. Forest measures were estimated to give a net CO2 intake of 3 million tonnes, which is also the maximum permissible ceiling for forest measures under the Kyoto Agreement. New climate notification was originally notified in 2010. The notification has subsequently been postponed three times. After each postponement, the Minister for the Environment has assured the Storting that the message will come as promised, and then to change his mind in the last few days. The last suspension of the notification was announced immediately after the events on 22 July. In the media, it was said that it was only a matter of a few months' delay because of the terrorist attack, and that the message would come in January 2012. We understand this postponement. But now the official answer to the Storting is that the message will come in 2012. Then more than four years have passed since the climate agreement was adopted, and more than six years have passed since the red-green government joined. Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions have remained relatively stable in recent years. The decline in the financial crisis in 2008 was reclaimed with a sharp increase in emissions in 2010. Today, Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions are at the peak year 2005 – 8 pst. above 1990 levels. Only eight years remain until 2020. Norway is so far away from achieving the objectives adopted by the Storting. Four years after the climate agreement, no decision has been taken in enough areas to achieve the objectives. I hardly need to remind the Minister for the Environment that the government is the executive in charge of implementing the policy adopted in Stortinget. Instead of submitting a climate statement, the government has presented a case by case for the Storting, which adds to the increase in greenhouse gas emissions. The last example of this is the oil message that was treated in Stortinget just before Christmas. Here the emissions from the oil and gas activities on the base were adjusted by a total of 23 pst. in relation to the underlying elements of the climate agreement. According to the forecast in the Communication, emissions from oil and gas activities will be higher in 2020 than they are today. Nevertheless, the Communication did not promote a single new measure to reduce emissions, on the contrary. On a very small Christmas evening, 22 December, after others had taken Christmas holidays, washed houses and baked Christmas cakes, the Minister for the Environment sent out a press release stating that the oil and gas business will no longer pay for its own allowances. The government will subsequently distribute free allowances to oil companies. The Christian People's Party is a party of Christmas presents, but we can imagine someone else who deserved this Christmas present better than the oil industry. For the climate issue, this gift was a direct setback. Another matter that has gone in the wrong direction is the government's CO2 management project. During the red-green government, two new gas power plants have been put into operation in Norway – one at Kårstø and one at Mongstad. The decision on the construction of the Kårstø power plant was, as someone will remember, the reason why the Bondevik I government went off in 2000, because we wouldn't be involved in eroding the pollution law. These two gas power stations contribute together with 4,5 pst. of the total emissions of greenhouse gases by Norway. Prime Minister Stoltenberg and Minister for the Environment Solheim have promised to clean both of these power plants for CO2. According to the Soria Moria declaration, Kårstø was to have been cleaned in 2009. The cleaning project at Mongstad, the so-called moon landing we all know, was to be cleared in 2014, according to the Prime Minister's New Year speech in 2007. On the basis of these promises, both Kårstø and Mongstad have been cleaned and integrated into the reference track and the emission projections for 2020 and 2050 on which the climate agreement is based. The current status is that no one knows whether there will be any cleaning on either Mongstad or Kårstø, or when there will be any. Should there be no clean-up, new measures for 2.5 million tonnes of CO2 in another sector must be implemented in addition to those proposed in the Climate Action Plan. With this, I wish the government every success in that work. The Christian People's Party is committed to the climate agreement, and we assume that the government will deal with the goals and the reconciliation that will be adopted when they once present their proposals in the climate communication. However, various spills and leaks from the government in recent times have led me to doubt whether the government intends to stand by the conciliation. Just under two months ago, 11 November 2011, the State Secretary of the Labour Party in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, Per Rune Henriksen, went out to the VG and invited to give the bluff in the climate agreement. He said that taking so much emissions at home would be expensive and stupid and that it would have to be found other ways than national policy-makers. The Christian People's Party interprets this as a clear signal from political leadership in one of the departments with the greatest importance for climate policy. A few days earlier, 7 November, the same newspaper, VG, could tell that the Ministry of Finance, in a consultation response to the Ministry of the Environment, recommends that climate cuts be taken abroad instead of in Norway. The Ministry of Finance therefore recommended breaking the climate agreement. According to the VG, the reasons for the recommendation are that no binding international climate agreement had been put in place, that the costs of climate action in Norway have increased since the climate agreement, and that the development of new environmental technologies has slowed down than expected. The Ministry of Finance therefore proposes that instead of costly reductions in emissions at home, instead of using resources on quota purchases and still rainforest measures abroad. These kinds of spills and leaks make me wonder if the climate agreement was just a game for the gallery. Is it really that the government made a deal with the opposition to buy time to reign and to tie up the opposition and prevent criticism for some years? Have the repeated postponements of the climate announcement been only the training and postponement of a breach that had to occur sooner or later, and an instrument for keeping the government together for a while? While we know that in the last four years the government has not used the opportunities they have to get climate policy on track, they have also not promoted things that need to be promoted. No one should be surprised that national climate action is becoming more expensive when one actively chooses not to do anything. In 2008, when the climate agreement was concluded, they had 12 years to do the job. Now there's only eight years left. Meanwhile, the government has exposed CO2 treatment on Kårstø and Mongstad, introduced road taxes on biodiesel, adopted a number of new oil extensions on the base without electrification, and not least failed to implement climate measures known to be either socio-economically profitable or cheaper than financing measures abroad. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, in fact, promoted on 27 April 2010 proposals in the Stortinget on the rapid implementation of the socio-economically profitable and cheap climate action from Climate Change 2020. We know that this would give us a great reduction in line with the climate agreement that we have concluded. Half of us could take these measures, but the government voted it down. My question to the Minister for the Environment will then be as follows: Can the Council of State assure that the two-thirds target, 15-17 million. tonnes of national emission reductions will form the basis for the measures in the climate notification notified in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e421	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing one of the most important questions of our time, namely how Norway and other countries will respond to the very serious threat to the planet and human life on the planet like climate change. It is now quite exactly four years since the climate agreement was signed on 17 January 2008. Let me, in respect of the Storting, read out exactly what's at it perhaps the most crucial point in connection with the interpellant. It says: ‘The parties therefore believe that the range from the Government’s Climate Communication can be extended to between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent in terms of reference track as presented in the 2007 national budget, when forest is included. This means that in case about two thirds of Norway’s total emission reductions are taken nationally.’ When the interpellant asks if there is the climate agreement that will underlie the government's submission to the Storting, the answer is yes. I have repeated this on several occasions. The Prime Minister has repeated it from the pulpit of the Storting. The climate agreement – this wording and the rest of what is in the climate agreement – will form the basis for the government’s presentation to the Stortinget. The climate agreement is, in fact, both a package of objectives and an instrument. This is where the aim of Stortinget and Norway was formulated, but it is also a list of a series of instruments. However, the instruments in the climate agreement itself will not lead us to achieve the objectives of the same climate agreement. More and more instruments are needed to achieve the objectives set out in the climate agreement. In the 2011 national budget, greenhouse gas emissions are estimated to increase to 57.5 million. tonnes in 2020 and then decreased to 53 million. tonnes in 2030 if current instruments continue. This means that emissions will be estimated to be more than 15 pst. above 1990 level in 2020 and around 6 pst. By 2030, unless new instruments are put in place, and that is, of course, what the government will propose in the climate communication. Let me stress, so we don't simplify the debate, that it's not an easy task to put on the table tools that help to achieve the objectives of the climate deal, as well as the instruments that are already there. An ambitious Norwegian climate policy is a major challenge, but to which the government will live. To help with this, we have, among other things, Climate change, the most comprehensive study conducted in Norway of greenhouse gas emission reduction measures and instruments. Let me say that in terms of the instruments in the climate agreement, they are largely implemented by the government. A series of things are done. About 70 pst. Norwegian emissions are subject to fees or allowances, giving economic justification for reducing emissions. Green certificates have been introduced, which will mean a significant expansion of renewable energy in Norway. However, it must also be done in an environmentally friendly way. It is worth noting that the referendum that took place in the municipality of Solund yesterday showed that the majority in the municipality did not want wind power, which is an important form of energy if we want more renewable energy. But wind power – such as hydropower – also needs to be expanded with care for the environment, so we need to have thorough plans for wind power development, such as for biomass, hydropower and all other forms of energy. However, the green certificates will be an important incentive for more renewable energy measures. Norway is the world leader in the development of CO2 capture and storage. I agree with the interpellant, I should have wished this much more quickly. Technology developments have taken longer than we wanted, but so Norway is the world leader in this area. New energy requirements for construction have been introduced; we have put in place solutions on power from land to Gjøa, Valhall and Goliath on a Norwegian base. Many other measures could have been mentioned. The interpellant makes a number out of the alleged Christmas present that we have given Norwegian petroleum industry. Let me just say that the «Christmas present» had a completely different sender than the Norwegian government. The EU to the consignors. It was the EU system that provided for free quotas for Norwegian petroleum industry, which was not what the Norwegian government wanted. If it's an industry that wouldn't need free quotas, it's really the petroleum industry. In other industries, there may be good reasons to introduce it, but in general, we have been very, very restrictive. We do not want free allowances, we stand on the polluter-pays principle, but we therefore have a harmonised system in the EU, and that is why this ‘Christmas gift’. And I agree with the interpellant: it wasn't a Christmas present for those who needed it all, most of all. Then the government has established a code on cow pricing in the largest cities. The largest cities can use it. I would encourage the parties that are at Stortinget, not least the Christian People's Party, to use their local power to ensure that the municipalities make use of it. It doesn't help that we give them the opportunity, unless our local representatives actively look for such an opportunity. The reward scheme for public transport has increased by about 90 million. kr in addition to the agreement in the climate agreement. There is an agreement on traffic reduction measures in four cities: Bergen, Trondheim, Buskerudbyen and Kristiansand. The one-off charge for the vehicle has been applied. Emissions from new cars have been reduced by one fourth – a significant result. The allocation to the railway has increased significantly in the last five years – from 7 billion. DKK to 12.5 billion. kr. The advantages of electric cars are so great in Norway that we of the electric car industry ourselves are portrayed as the first country in the electric car sector to such an extent that we were invited to participate in the Russian Duma when Mitsubishi was to present a country that was really a place where the electric car industry could thrive. Mitsubishi, also mentioned earlier, has sold its thousands of electric cars in Norway and is now up in 1,400 electric cars sold – and others come with electric cars. It will be a great task to ensure that you get a network of charging stations so that electric cars can be used throughout the country. In addition to this, Transnova has launched a number of measures to reduce CO2 emissions from transport. One of the most hopeless debates we sometimes have in Norway is the debate on whether we should have domestic or international measures. I see it that only those who have a very good time in this area may think that we should have either domestic or international measures. Clearly, we must have both domestic and international measures. The measures that Norway supports and contributes to internationally are of far greater real importance in reducing CO2 emissions than those that we are doing in Norway. A loose estimate of Brazil’s reduced carbon emissions as a result of dramatically reduced deforestation with Norwegian aid is that it equals 10–20 times — it is a conservative estimate, it may be even more — all Norwegian emissions together. In other words, if Norway sank into the Atlantic and everything stopped here, the effect of this would be only a ten-thousandth of what Brazil has achieved in the deforestation area. I could mention many other examples. Of course, international action contributes to the greatest decline in greenhouse gas emissions and is thus the most important. However, we also need Norwegian measures for two reasons in particular. One is that Norway will have no authority whatsoever in the international climate debate if we do not take action at home. Coming to the climate negotiations in 2015 or 2020 on the basis that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have increased as it has fallen in almost all other developed countries, we would not have spoken on this basis from any strengthened position in the negotiations. If we do not implement measures at home and if we do not demonstrate that an advanced industrial economy such as Norway can lead to a good life, industrial growth, economic prosperity and greenhouse gas reductions at the same time, it has no credibility that other countries should do so. In addition, it is in the interests of Norwegian industry that we implement measures. If we wait to implement measures that have been implemented anywhere else, it is obvious that Norway will come into behind technology. Being in the forefront of technology will almost certainly be a competitive advantage in this area. Since climate action in Norway is usually more expensive than in other countries, taking action only abroad and sitting and expecting climate action will mean that climate action will come at the very last in Norway with the technological disadvantage it is for Norwegian business. Let me finally say that I am now completely rejecting the image that some people are giving, because nothing is happening in the world in this area. Durban was the best thing that could be achieved given the current power situation in the world. Of course, we would want more, but a new floor was clearly built at the Durban climate house, and Durban has now ensured that by 2015 we will have a broad global negotiation process against an agreement that includes all the major emission nations. In addition to this, a series of countries make mass individual: China introduces new technologies in areas by region, Ethiopia la in Durban develop a low-carbon strategy with Norwegian and British support. It is the first time a poor developing country says that they can become an intermediate country without increasing their greenhouse gas emissions at all. The increases they receive in transport and industry as a result of economic progress shall be compensated for by corresponding reductions in agriculture and by tree planting. It's a wonderfully impressive program. Many other developing countries do similar things. I can mention Indonesia, Brazil and many others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e474	The Council of State made an important confirmation by saying yes to the objective of the climate agreement of between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent – approximately two thirds – shall be taken in Norway by 2020. This is an important confirmation of the settlement. For it is not what VG says, that the Ministry of Finance will break the climate agreement, or that Secretary of State Henriksen of the Ministry of Oil and Energy will go against SV's climate requirements. A word on the country's main pulpit weighs heavily, and I expect it to be followed up in the message that comes. The Council of State says that the climate agreement is an agreement on objectives and instruments, but that it needs more and more instruments than those in place to achieve these objectives. It was never thought that there were enough instruments in the climate agreement to achieve these objectives. That is why we should get new climate messages to take the necessary new grip. What's the challenge is that we're going in the wrong direction. Now we're at 8 pst. above 1990 levels. The councils showed a different analysis, but that's what the 2010 figures show us -- the last numbers we have -- that we're 8 pst. above 1990 levels. The challenge is then: even though the Council of State talks nicely about the policy that the government has pursued, we have therefore gone in the wrong direction. None of us who run the climate battle have said that this is a simple task. Then we had chosen something completely different to operate with. We have to be impatient, and we have to be creative, and we have to stand by and think in the long term. That's just how we can help save our globe. I agree, and the Christian People's Party agrees, that we have to do things both at home and outside. But the challenge is that we feel that a lot is happening abroad, internationally, and that we are doing too little at home considering that we have tools that go in the wrong direction and that our emissions are also going in the wrong direction. So we'd like to say that we're world leaders in the development of technology on CCS cleaning at Kårstø and Mongstad, and the Council of State is impatient like me. The challenge is that these developments are too slow in relation to the demanding measures that we – or the government – have to put in place. If we can't say we're going to target Kårstø and Mongstad by 2020, we're going to have to take a big cut in other areas. It's one of the big challenges. Then it's not useful to hit the chest and say that we're world leaders. With regard to the agreement we have concluded, we must fulfil that – with a great yes and exclamation mark, the undersigned wrote, and she will take care of that note for future debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e497	It might not be that much to add. What I said now, the Prime Minister has also said here earlier. So with all due respect for the opposition, it becomes a little bit unnecessary to repeat it and repeat it. We will implement measures based on the climate agreement. The fact that there are individual votes in the government parties of another opinion is part of a perfectly normal political debate. I have – with all due respect – recorded a series of votes in the Right that are in favour of breaking the climate agreement. However, I am confident that Erna Solberg and Højre's management intend to implement the climate agreement with us, even if I hear single voices that mean something else. If anything else is the case, it would be interesting to get it informed in the debate, of course. We in the government assume that we have a broad deal. We're going to implement policies on the basis of that agreement, and we want to have an outstretched hand to the opposition parties to implement this national effort together. It's not going to be easy. Measures will have to be implemented in all essential areas if we are to achieve in sum what the Grand total has decided. There will need to be measures in the field of petroleum, in industry, in trade, in construction and in all other essential areas. It is not a single measure that can bring us into objectives, but only the sum of measures in many areas. A good part of these actions will encounter opposition in business organisations, in the various political parties, in the media, and some of them will be unpopular among electoral groups. So it will require considerable strength from the Biggest parties to stand up and make sure that, in sum, we get a policy that will deliver the climate agreement, as we have said we will. Then I fully share Line Henriette Hemdal's impatience. What I must say, however, is that I have an absolute impatience for technological development, but it cannot be adopted by us. It has proved to take longer in some areas than any of us wanted. Neither the Stortinget nor the Norwegian Government can easily be accused of being responsible for it, as it also takes longer in other countries that are so unfortunate not to have any Christian People's Party or a red-green government, to say it that way. There must be other factors that make it take longer. But that impatience is an incredibly important driving force. Without such impatience, we can't go on. So let's keep it until the climate announcement reaches the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e508	First of all, thank you to the inter-pellant for raising this debate, and thus stress the weight of the compromise that the Stortinget has adopted. Then I have to say that I am getting pretty tired of the opposition in all sorts of possible debates trying to create the impression that nothing is happening in the climate field, and that there has not been a single action since the last climate communication. It is – with all due respect – wrong. I will not repeat the State Council's presentation of any of the measures taken, but just stress that 70 pst. Norwegian emissions are subject to a fee or allowances. In other words, we have come quite far in setting a price for emissions. It is happening in a context where, most closely across the world, with the exception of Europe, strongly refuses to take on commitments and to take the necessary steps towards carbon pricing, which will be the most important global response to emissions reductions. The representative Heimdal was in the allocation of free allowances on the socket. I am sure that although the representative was standing in the middle of the Christmas brink and perhaps was busy, she had time to read the full press release that came on 22 December, and so she knows that there have been negotiations with the EU on a harmonised regulatory framework, and that the press release also states that the government believes that the petroleum industry should not be given financial relief as a result of the quotas, but that proposals should be put forward to ensure that it does. At least it will severely limit the value of this Christmas gift from the EU. With regard to the coming climate communication, the Council of State gave a very thorough account of the government's current policy. I really don't have much to add to it. It is the Stortinge that determines the climate targets that the country should have, and the Stortinge has decided to cut between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. It's solid. It is established even though everything we have received from documentation through, among other things, Climate change, shows that it is a goal that is both difficult and sometimes expensive to achieve. But it should be said that when the climate agreement was adopted four years ago, no one indicated that it was going to be either easy or free to achieve the goals that were chosen. It's obviously going to be demanding, but we've been aware of that for a long time. Then it should also be said that many of the debates that are rolling and going about the climate agreement, and what it should and should not contain, are legitimate. Many of them are also essential, firstly because the climate agreement says that objectives and instruments should be evaluated along the way, but also because climate policy is full of dilemmas. Putting words on those dilemmas is not the same as thinking that Norway should not do anything at home. More people have been involved in renewable energy, and I'm very sorry that we're very heavy on it. So energy efficiency -- I'm very much in for us to bet heavily on it as well. However, compared to the Norwegian climate accounts, this does not mean much. Reasonable measures include: because it will help to release clean energy that can be exported. Another obvious dilemma is the lack of a global agreement that most people believed would come into place when the previous climate agreement was signed. The absence of such an agreement does not exempt anyone from liability – on the contrary. But it is clear that in some sectors it would be easier to find measures that have an obvious global climate gain if it was such that we had a global agreement to deal with. That the absence of an agreement creates a debate on what is a wise strategy for Norway and Norwegian climate policy, I think it is quite natural even though the answers may be different. It's e.g. clearly that the management of the ETS sector is not straightforward. I think everyone realizes that it's going to be impossible to cut between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent if the ETS sector is completely excluded. However, using large sums here that do not reduce emissions at European level would be quite unwise unless it has some effect beyond the actual tonnes being cut — for example. technology development. I have long thought that there has been too little focus on the industrial policy opportunities that lie in developing new climate solutions. Climate action does not mean deindustrialisation, that is, reindustrialisation, says Connie Hedegaard so well. In a context where California sails as the great example of how to ‘boost’ both industry and economy through climate action, and where similar trends are seen in large parts of Asia, this is the perspective that we need to take into account in the discussions on climate action in Norway towards both 2020 and 2050. I look forward to the climate announcement coming. I am convinced that there will be a good message with many offensive measures that both reduce emissions and contribute to the creation of new jobs, and that is, after all, the most important thing. So the objectives are firm, but the measures are the most important thing to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e540	It's strange to follow this debate a little bit from the sideline, because it's really what the Progress Party is doing when we talk about the climate deal. Often it is not very good to sit on the sideline, but precisely in this debate I have to say that on behalf of the Progress Party I feel very comfortable that we are actually on the sideline in relation to the climate agreement. I think that the debate that is taking place here today between the conciliators illustrates quite well. One thing is a little disagreement about the perception of what the conciliation really involves, but the most important thing – and that has been stated all the way – is the lack of realism that was the basis for the conciliation. What's going to be most strange is the theme that's the starting point for the debate. If the worst possible consequences of man-made climate change were to materialize — and the participants in the debate here today have not been restrained in adjective use — it is very strange, if you believe it, that you choose to hang out on where to cut, and that that is the big topic of discussion. I think the Solheim Council actually illustrates this quite well with its rainforest example. If the point is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it has to be to reduce as much as possible to the lowest possible cost, and then we know that the cost of taking the cuts domestically is much higher than what we can achieve by doing it abroad. So it becomes a little dogmatic when you're totally attached to the two-quarters requirement. It's almost, with all due respect, a little bit of religious overtones in it, because I see it as irrational, clearly irrational, when you obviously hang more in where you're going to cut than in the extent of the cuts. The Progress Party has very difficult to believe that it will be possible to achieve the 2⁄3 objective, and the internal voices that have come from the government parties in the open debate, I think it really illustrates it very well. It's going to be very exciting to see how the final climate announcement is going to be, and what's going to feed there. But if you're going to base the two-thirds goal, it really means you're taking away Norwegian jobs, moving them to the rest of the world. You take away value creation. It's irrational. It's an irrational policy that doesn't serve countries and people at all, and all the time the climate challenge is of a global nature, it doesn't serve the cause either. The point must be the best way to reduce climate emissions, so it's not about where to do it. But I'm recording that there's the debate going on between the climate comrades, between those who in their time made the climate deal in 2008. But it's a very little fruitful debate, and it's going to be a little bit dogmatic about it. The Progress Party assumes that yes, on the basis of a precautionary principle, we will be involved in meeting the challenges that arise, but then we will have to do so where we get the most back for the resources we use to cut greenhouse gases. It has a cost, and all the time none of us has an eternity horn, they have to be cut out of a cost estimate. Thus, the principle of food-benefit should form the basis of climate policy, which it should do in all other areas within the sphere of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e551	Governments are well pleased to travel abroad. That's understandable – it's not much in his portfolio to enjoy at home. The ambitions of climate policy are not in the way, but the ability to translate large words into action and concrete climate action has proved inadequate. Something is right enough done, but in close enough. At the risk of being perceived as imperative: it tastes like double morals when, at one moment, the Council of State determines that Norway has the highest climate ambitions in the world and is world-leading, while at the second moment it postpones the climate communication – over and over again. There is no doubt that the implementation of the climate agreement is becoming more difficult and more expensive for every day that goes. If the State Council postpones the climate notification long enough, it will soon not be possible to achieve the targets within the timeframe set, with measures that are in place to live with and that do not contribute to carbon leakage. Whether the government is behind the objectives of the climate agreement is unclear, which the interpellant also suggests. Who is speaking on behalf of the government on climate and energy issues is also unclear. What the government believes about extraction rates on Norwegian soil, oil sands in Canada, the EU Fuel Directive – to name a few examples – is unclear. Kaoset will be complete when we discuss the climate agreement's objective of concrete emission reductions in Norway. The Council of State calls this a hopeless debate, but it is thus being conducted in his own government, by Per Rune Henriksen, by Kjetil Lund, by the Council of State itself, by the Council of State Ola Borten Moe, and everyone says the different things about this topic. And what's said in the paper is something other than what's said in this room. This is very unfortunate for climate policy, but it also creates uncertainty for all the actors, not least in business, who need to know what they have to do with, and who now do not know what they can expect. In the middle of this chaos — and with a blue climate announcement — the Council of State continues its travel activity. Something tells me that he should have prioritised the completion of the climate communication. The climate problem is, after all, the most important and most important challenge of our time. Better then to travel to Ghana, as the Council of State did in the harvest. The aim was to promote the Norwegian oil industry – nothing wrong with it, all the time the oil is to be extracted anyway. In Ghana he had the joy of showing Norwegian success and competence, namely the rigging "Eirik Raude". Subject to my remembering correctly, this is a rig built in China, owned by Greeks and registered in a tax haven. Calling this a Norwegian success is well as relevant as putting the same label on our national climate policy. That being said, it is commendable that the Council of State is strongly committed to international climate action. All countries must contribute if we are to meet the objectives of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of 50-85 p.m. cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The climate challenge is global and must be met with global instruments. It is therefore discouraging that the outcome of the Durban Conference is no more binding. Pending a global climate agreement, Norway has to do its part in the job, and interpellant travels an important theme in that context. Norway has technology, competence and capital to contribute to the challenge, and we are among the countries in the world who can best demonstrate that it is possible to combine growth and high standards of living with a climate-friendly society. In the last few years, the Right has promoted a number of proposals that will contribute in the right direction. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have proposed that the government launch socio-economic economical measures from Climate Change 2020, without waiting for the Climate Change Communication. It's almost two years since we proposed this. We have proposed a billion-dollar contribution to public transport in the metropolitan regions. We have proposed an eco-innovation fund to help develop and implement new emission abatement technologies. We have proposed a comprehensive review of fuel taxes with the aim of making it profitable and predictable to choose environmentally friendly alternatives, i.e. the exact opposite of government policy in this area. Before Christmas we also presented a proposal for a national strategy for biogas. In our alternative state budget for 2012, we proposed to increase the mineral oil levy, but also to increase support for the replacement of oil fuel. We allocated more money to research into renewable energy and to the reward scheme for walking and cycling in cities, and we proposed VAT measures for the leasing of electric cars and batteries in electric cars – to mention something. The common feature of all these proposals is that they are voted down by the government parties. Instead of taking action that we must in any case take, the government's strategy is to wait for the government to agree on the whole of the government's climate communication. The challenge is that it'll be more expensive and more demanding to achieve the goals we've set ourselves, for every day that goes. At the pace of the government it will soon be impracticable to achieve the objectives of the climate communication. At the same time we heard the council before Christmas tell them that he would do more at home. When he got home from Durban, he said it on the radio. He has to do more, but at least he can start doing something. In the 2012 state budget, there is a new climate action, and there is a new charging policy for plug-in hybrid cars – well and good, but there should be so much more. The issue of the inter-pellant is important, but it is also important to start the debate on what measures we are about to take in order to realise the low-emission society in a 2050 perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e583	Today's Business Edition, November 11, last year, had a dramatic headline on a two-page article summarizing the latest report of the International Energy Agency. «Warning of an inconvenient planet», it said. The Agency gave a clear message. If we continue as today, we may heat up the earth so much that large parts of it will become totally uninhabitable within my son of two years will statistically thank him. We now know with a great deal of certainty that there are human greenhouse gas emissions that will make us face enormous challenges over the next decade in terms of floods, droughts, storms and subsequent consequences for food production, housing patterns, access to water and the eradication of species – to mention something. Then we also know the following: we do not get an ambitious international climate agreement in the near future. The quota price is too low and unpredictable to trigger the necessary conversion and technological development. The longer we wait to act, the more expensive it gets, and climate change will change our markets, our modes of production and our way of life, whether we want it or not. So what do we do? Do we wait and see, do we continue as before – we are just a tiny little country, it doesn't matter what we do – do we buy more quotas, or do we seize the opportunities to conduct a responsible, offensive and national climate policy? For us in SV, this is a moral question. We cannot fail to deal with the knowledge we now have about the effects of climate change on our planet. The climate problem is all about fair distribution of goods and burdens — between countries, between peoples and between generations. Furthermore, cutting-edge in rich countries is necessary if we are to develop new technology, technology that will not be profitable if we only rely on cost-effective solutions. For Norway’s economic sustainability in the future, it is much trickier to gradually change instead of rushing, and for Norwegian business there is a need for predictability and forward-looking thinking in order to meet foreign competition offensively. It is not without reason that large parts of business, for example: Norwegian industry, is in the forefront of asking for an offensive and predictable national climate policy. Cutting in their own emissions is ultimately also about building bridges and creating trust between north and south, as other representatives before me have been involved. Norway needs to become one of the rich countries that show a willingness to take responsibility for itself and which makes it visible that it is possible to combine climate change with safe and well-being, that a low-carbon society is not a pitfall, but that it offers us new opportunities on the contrary. I would like to repeat the citation by the representative Marianne Marthinsen of climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard, who said that climate protection is not about deindustrialisation but about reindustrialisation. I think we need to reverse our thinking. We must stop clinging to the constraints, but rather see all the opportunities offered by an offensive climate policy for jobs – that it creates robust, forward-looking jobs that stand in competition in modern markets, that we see here that we can create urban air and urban space that gives a completely different quality of life than today, that we can get a comeback, for example. in the case of rail, which binds the country together and creates new growth in parts of the country other than just around the Oslo area, that we can put in place a public health project where walking and cycling routes and thinking around it and facilitating it provide effects that also have implications for both the quality of life and the economy of Norway in the future. I think it is good that the representative Line Henriette Hemdal raises a debate on the most important issue in 2012 – and also for the future. But as the representative Marthinsen said, I think it is a pity that she and other conciliators talk down to a great extent what has been achieved through the previous conciliation. There have been many things that have happened as a result of the conciliation, but it has also shifted in the political debate and the way we think, also internally in the government apparatus. I believe that we will be able to achieve an offensive Norwegian climate policy in the future. I believe that we have to stop talking down what we have achieved in Norway, but rather help each other to see the many opportunities that lie in us having a responsible and forward-looking climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e600	The centre party is behind the goals of the climate agreement that we agreed to make here in the Stortinget, and we're going to actively contribute to both growth and government so that Norway will achieve the goals that we've seen. Climate challenges are the big issue today. I hope that when a historical look back at this timebook, one will sum up that we had the knowledge, we had the resources, and we contributed as a nation beyond what was expected of us in the fight against climate change. We are so lucky to live in a country that is among those that has the highest level of wealth in the world. Our wealth and wealth are the later years, not exclusive, but largely made possible by the receipts from the petroleum industry. It's an important industry. However, it is also an industry — and among the industries — that is behind the man-made climate change by contributing to CO2 emissions. That is why we have a moral responsibility to contribute to international climate work – in my view, we have a responsibility to contribute more than many other countries to international commitments, to resources and knowledge when it comes to climate action and adaptation both here and abroad, and not least to effective action in our own countries. We have to show that we're not buying out of climate problems, but we're implementing measures to reduce costs in our own society as well. It is important to show that a low-carbon society can also be a prosperity society. At the same time, a strategy where one buys out of the climate will be a giant bear service for Norwegian business. If we base the conclusions of the UN Climate Panel, climate action will not stop in 2020. It will continue with increased strength, and the conversion will have to come. If we want a Norwegian business that is in the front when it comes to the environment – and thus has in the long term competitiveness as a result – we cannot go along with the Progress Party and the representative Amundsen. He jumps over this entire dimension. It is an honest thing not to base the conclusions of the United Nations Climate Panel, but if a change is to take place, it must be a point that Norwegian business is also allowed to take part in this development and that we are facilitating it. Otherwise, the whole of the international business world — or at least the business world in a large number of countries — will be converted into low-emission activity before the implementation of the measures in Norway becomes profitable. In my opinion, we have done Norwegian business as a bear service. So the future will come up with new demands, will require more effort, and we actually have the ability to implement this demanding transition and come out stronger at the other end. We see it in renewable energy. Our country is located in a region that is one of the most exciting regions in the world as an energy region, not only in relation to oil and gas, but also in relation to renewable energy, wind, water, bio – and all the immature things in which we have not yet had the economy: wave power, tidal power, salt power, offshore wind and much more. Here it's going to be a formidable development, and we can contribute. We can create activity and jobs and clean energy production. It is not, as was said earlier in the debate, that the production of clean energy in Norway does not matter in the climate accounting for our national accounts. If we use that energy towards the area that is currently based on fossil energy, we will actually benefit from it in terms of lower emissions also in our own country. There's a lot going on here. The government is implementing very good policies in this area. We have put in place green certificates, we are increasing the production of renewable energy significantly, through Enova we are driving energy efficiency in industry and in households, and through a formidable commitment to research and development in this area, we have put in place the Centres for Renewable Energy and CCS, as a contribution to new technology in this area. So through our contribution to the climate struggle, we have not only the ability to do what is morally right when it comes to contributing in the right way to climate work, but we can create green jobs and create green growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e619	First, I would also like to thank the inter-pellant. Suffering if I really wanted us to have a climate message to discuss today, it is commendable of the interpellant to remind the government of what it is that we should have had on the table. The problem is not that nothing is happening, the problem is that we are going in the wrong direction in terms of emissions in Norway. It is possible that Marthinsen's representative is tired, but I'm afraid. I am afraid of what is now happening in Norway, where emissions only increase when we know that we have to make them go in a different direction. Maybe we should stop talking about global warming? Maybe now we're going to talk about what we're starting to see around us, which is more and more extreme weather that affects our everyday lives in different ways? I agree with the Council of State that there is a hopeless debate, the one about whether we should cut at home. The problem is that the times I've been provoked in the last months of such a debate, I've been provoked by the government's members and supporters. No, it's not free, nor is it easy. And to put it that way, politics hasn't put any big medals on state councils, governments or politicians who've just done what's free and easy. It's actually when we make the big changes that we measure. We all know why we're going to do that, but there are other reasons. Our communities are changing. Worldwide, societies are changing, because this has become a new factor in how we organize our societies. This is the technology leap that you can say was in mini-format, as Norwegians couldn't always hang out with when we went from sail to steam. Now we're going back to sailing in a new technology leap. Then we can lean back and say that we're so rich that we can pay others to make that technology leap. Not enough that we don't get to do what we're going to do, but we're going to do our children a bear service by outsmarting them with a society that's technologically at stake, and that's not going to create jobs that they can live on. This technology leap that we are now talking about is about creating future jobs. Instead of saying that we're so rich that we can't do that, we should say that we're so rich that we can do it in a simpler and more convenient way than others. We can help create those jobs, the future technology and those opportunities. Then I have to comment on the post for Per-Willy Amundsen. I wonder if it's unknowing, or if it's actually a little malicious -- one of the parts is it at least. The only thing I can say that I agree with Per-Willy Amundsen is that there is a certain lack of realism in the climate agreement, but with another sign. If we read the figures for the climate panel, which we have been presented now, we will cut too little in the climate agreement. We have too little ambitions in relation to what we really should have in the climate agreement in view of the figures now presented by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. That is the lack of realism in the climate agreement. The problem with this government is that they don't mean anything. We have heard what they think about the climate. What they mean is in the oil message. What they think lies in the exposed climate message – which is not so important. What they mean is in the state budget, where all the arrows point in the wrong direction. So the problem isn't what the government means, but what they mean is not good enough. That is why we in the Left have presented what we are willing to go for, what burdens we think we should be willing to carry forward in order to achieve this, and therefore we have said what action we are willing to take in the context of a climate change crisis. It's actually sincerely meant to be a handshake. We show the cards – it is not very strategic right to do so when negotiating for cooperation, but for us this matter is so important that we are willing to show the cards in advance. If we do not see the climate message before the end of February, it will come as a Document No. Eight proposals here. It's a leap year this year!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e632	I want to thank you for a rich debate, which I think we have had in the last hour. When I heard representatives from Marianne Marthinsen's posts, where she mentioned the free allowances and that no financial relief was to be granted in the government's regime, it cannot be interpreted in so many other ways than that the government is going in to increase the CO2 tax to the level that the CO2 tax was before you had allowances, perhaps higher. There is, if necessary, an exciting grip to which the government is adding. In the case of the representative Amundsen, he hears a religious overtone when it comes to the two-thirds case. Furthermore, he says that there is something irrational about it. The representative Amundsen does reveal himself what he thinks about religion as something irrational, and to me that is an answer enough. The representative Marthinsen is tired of the opposition telling us nothing is happening. In my post, I say that things are happening, but it's not happening fast enough, and we're going in the wrong direction. That's the big challenge, so today we're over 8 pst. above the 1990 level in the emissions we have already sent up, which we can measure. The policy we adopted at the last meetings here before we took Christmas holidays will also make the challenge of getting the climate deal even tougher. Then I agree that we should see the opportunity, as the representative of Thorkildsen is in it. We're going to get clean urban air, we're going to get a clean urban space, and so we promoted the Christian People's Party, along with the Left and Right, one of the climate cure measures on the continuous bike path. It's a measure that saves society for 10 000 kroner per person, because we're getting our health costs down! So the government parties voted down in 2010 because they wanted to wait and see. We could have done that. We know what's going on, we could have done this. And with respect to reporting, I'm trying to be honest with the climate struggle we're in – not talking down, but being honest about how the map and the terrain we have in front of us are. I'm impatient, and it's the Council of State. But it is not likely that the Council of State will waive responsibility for the emissions that occur in Mongstad. It's his responsibility as the Council of State. The Council of State began by saying that he laid the climate target at the heart of the climate communication. That's good. Then there is only one thing left: that there will be enough action in the climate communication that the government has announced during this year, which means that climate objectives will be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e657	Since I have answered the question thoroughly and there is nothing to add there, let me conclude with a few comments on the opposition's posts. The contribution of the Progress Party was that it is much, much better to do something abroad than to do something in Norway. Now it is only a month since the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget was dealt with from this pulpit. At that time, the members of the Progress Party stated that it was much, much better to do something in Norway, that we had to drastically cut down on all the money we spend on international climate action. Then understand who can! It cannot be said that it is both too hot and too cold at the same time, and then call itself climate critics and criticise climate action. Either it's too hot, or it's too cold. Climate action cannot both be eliminated at home on the one day and climate action abroad on the other day, believing that there is a coherent policy. More of this would not have been significant if the Progress Party just stood on the sideline, as they themselves say, but it is essential because the Left is obviously much less provoked by this than by some people from the government parties saying something different than the Prime Minister and I. Understand the one who can, that Per Rune Henriksen is more provocative than the articles of the Progress Party here, and that it is possible to recommend cooperation with the Progress Party, as I saw one of the Left's speakers just did on the front page of one of the country's newspapers. And that party is to be cooperated with, while one is provoked by the fact that some scattered representatives of the government parties contradict the government's policy! I don't understand. It is not possible to understand how to become a climate policy out of that cooperation. Let me also comment on the Right that did not address the challenge they were facing, namely that a series of speakers from the Right have raised doubts about the climate agreement. I hope that the Right Magnifying Group will address that problem in its own rows. Nor did the right-wing speakers comment that recently a series of proposals in Stortinget have been put forward that would increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, and that it would be beneficial to have fewer such proposals. The right-wing representative also did not address the major problem we have, that when Stortinget gives local politicians the opportunity to take climate action, for example. Through the Copenhagen process – it has broad support from the government parties locally, and very often also from the centre parties and the Christian People’s Party – there is no support from the Right, who is in power in the vast majority of major cities in Norway, to implement precisely these measures. I also want to make a personal heart attack when an internationally oriented party that the Right operates some sort of cheap populism and says that the Council of State is too much abroad. With all due respect, it is not possible to produce rainforest bets, Norwegian renewable bets, Scatec that are now investing large sums in solar energy in South Africa, or a large agricultural programme for climate change without Jonas Gahr Støre, me and other Norwegian politicians being abroad. Right should defend this international effort against opinion and not drive populist freedom into something that only helps us to achieve an even worse climate policy than what they themselves describe – both in Norway and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e668	Case No. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e674	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e682	During the debate, Gjermund Hagesetter has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a holistic Norwegian water and sewerage law.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e782	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e795	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right also want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e807	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-10.ana.ud2065e821	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
