ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e22	The representatives Henning Skumsvoll, Øyvind Halleraker, Jenny Klinge, Eirik Sivertsen, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Øyvind Waksdal, Torfinn Opheim and Jorodd Asphjell, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Line Vennesland, has taken the seat. The Group of the Progressive Alliance has been informed that the licence granted to the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has been withdrawn from 10 April until 13 April. This notice shall be taken into account. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 30 March 2012: ‘The Government Council of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 30 March 2012 shall determine: State Council Heikki Holmås is authorized to manage the board of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when the Minister of Foreign Affairs is absent. State Secretary Roger Østlie Sandum is granted, on application, by grace of the State Secretary of the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen. State Secretary Ingrid Fiskaa is granted, on application, relief in grace from office as Secretary of State for the Council of State Heikki Holmås. State Secretary Henriette Killi Westhrin is granted, on application, by way of derogation from the office of Secretary of State of the Council of Inga Marte Thorkildsen. State Secretary Henriette Killi Westhrin is hereby appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Board of Vegar Solhjell. Head of Department Kjetil Andreas Ostling is appointed State Secretary for State Council Inga Marte Thorkildsen.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e90	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e93	I would like to make two motions for a resolution. The first is on behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Bård Hoksrud and myself that there is a big deal about the industry's framework conditions. The second is on behalf of Svein Flätten, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Borghild Tenden and myself on simplifications in reporting, forms and regulations for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e102	The representative, Arve Kambe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e105	In a good civil spirit, I am promoting a proposal for a representative on behalf of Jørund Rytman, Hans Olav Syversen, Borghild Tenden and myself to amend the provisions on the retention of accounting documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e110	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e113	I would like to make a proposal from the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Svein Flätten, Borghild Tenden and myself on the results of the simplification promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e119	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e122	On behalf of the representative Jørund Rytman, Arve Kambe, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to establish my own ‘Council of Rules’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e127	The representative, Knut Arild Hareide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e130	On behalf of the representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Dagrun Eriksen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to make Barna's transport plan an integral part of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e135	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e147	On Wednesday 4 April, the Stortinge received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Sigbjørn Johnsen, Anniken Huitfeldt and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. However, the Stortinget received today's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Council of State Lisbeth Berg-Hansen has a history of disease. The other state councils are there, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e154	I have questions for the Minister of Finance. The Norwegian economy is solid. The government's profits in the oil fund were half an hour ago of 3,448 billion. kr. The year's surplus on the state budget will approach 400 billion today's oil prices. kr. Nevertheless, in yesterday's class struggle, we saw that a centre party summit writes that the state is saving itself. He takes a settlement with his own government, because one sees that there are many infrastructure projects that are profitable in this country, which are nevertheless very much in advance. An example was seen in Today’s Business on March 29. Then we talked about the double-track intercity triangle around Oslo, which can be estimated to be completed in 2046. But they have estimated that if you can compress the project and implement the project in a shorter time, the socio-economic profitability will increase by 22 billion. kr. It'll be 70 billion. kr for society to benefit from implementing the project. So it's not a cost, it's an investment that society makes. It's an analysis from Oslo Economics. By compressing the project, no more oil money is used in the Norwegian economy as a whole, but it is used in a shorter time perspective. You get more railway back for the money, and the state and society make money on this. When the Minister of Finance was in charge, he wrote a chronicle in the Evening Post that the Railway Agency and the State Road Service should be given greater freedom of action to perform their duties, as Avinor has for aviation. This can be done by transforming these institutions into state enterprises or wholly owned state limited liability companies. That would be a good solution, seems the Progress Party. Does the Minister of Finance agree that this is something the government should promote for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e167	This article has become an old butcher, which I have responded to on several occasions. I can repeat the answer now. It is that there was a post in connection with the preparation of the transport plan that the government is now in the process of implementing to point and point. The question concerned increased appropriations for transport purposes in Norway. What's the point now is that never before has there been so much investment in road and rail as now – 100 billion. kr more than in previous periods. So oil revenue gives Norway great financial freedom. Oil revenues shall be managed in a long-term perspective. To that end, we have an action rule that makes sure that we distinguish the current oil revenue from the use of the annual government budget. That's a good rule. It has served Norway well, and it will serve Norway well in the future. Within the room the rule of action gives, we use years about another approx. 1 000 B.C.E. kr in the State budget for different purposes. A significant part of it is investment in transport. Then, if you want to increase your investment in transport, you can choose to give it priority over other expenditure in the state budget. Both the Stortinget and the individual parties are free to do. So I would say that getting a faster and more coherent implementation of major transport projects is an important part of what the government is now working on. For this reason, some large, heavy projects have been put into their own government budget lines, and they want to develop that governance tool further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e180	It is true that the Council of State has responded to its chronicle. The problem is that he has not implemented it as a policy. All the good suggestions he himself had as a countyman, he has left behind following up as Minister of Finance, when he actually has the power to do so. That is what the Progress Party wants to challenge the Minister of Finance. The answer from the Minister of Finance also shows one of the main challenges of having the State budget as we do in Norway. There is no distinction between expenditure and investment. Consumption and investment are treated in exactly the same way. Building a road or using money to support bamboo clubs, it is perceived as the same in the Norwegian economy and Norwegian growth force. The Progress Party disagrees. The examples I gave show that, as a society, you can make significant money by making investments faster and better implemented. When mentioning the use of oil money, it is a little strange that roads and railways must be given priority in the budget, while State power can build windmills for money from the oil fund, without prioritising it in the budget. You can invest hundreds of billions of dollars on Norwegian pedestal without having to prioritise it in the budget. Will the Council of State follow up its chronicle?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e187	As I said in my main response, having large and important transportation projects carried out faster and more coherently, I agree. I have opened up, among other things, by my own posts in the state budget, to see things in a multi-annual perspective in that way. That makes sense, and we'll see more of that in the future. So if the government chooses to buy shares in Statoil, it's a financial position. It's a relocation of wealth. It is a location that provides the state with current income, through, among other things. dividends. The revenue is used for the good and reasonable purposes in the State budget. Investing in a road doesn't give you a continuous return here and now. It may help to facilitate transport costs and such things, but there is a fundamental difference between investing in a road that does not provide an ongoing cash flow and a continuous return, and investing in shares in Statoil, which yields high dividends to the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e194	There will be three follow-up questions – first from Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e197	It does not help with its own items in the budget as long as you do not fill out the items with money. The Minister of Finance is one of the government's most experienced politicians. He was 12 years old when Bratteli presented his motorway plan in 1962. There, the Workers' Party promised 785 km of motorway by 1980. During 2012, we built approx. Three hundred miles. It's less than half. That means we're not even halfway there. And how old the Minister of Finance will be when you're done can be exciting to see. What I hope the Minister of Finance actually does is brush a little dust from his thoughts in 2008, and promote the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted several times, namely to establish state companies that have the opportunity to raise loans and build roads and railways outside the annual budgets. Sigbjørn Johnsen said that funding reform was absolutely necessary in 2008. He now believes that supporting the proposals of the Progress Party gives Greek conditions. What new knowledge has the Minister of Finance gained?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e208	In February 1974, I first met in Stortinget. In October 1997, I left Stortinget as a permanent representative. Over the years, the E6 had eaten northwards at 1 km per year. Now the four-field E6 is built northwards so it laughs. You've opened the Colomo, a little bit north of the E6, you've opened a new parcel from Dal to Minnesund, and you're in the process of filling it in the middle. It is much faster, and it is thanks to the appropriations that this government has given for the purpose of transport – which are the largest investments on the road and the way ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e213	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e216	I agree with the Minister of Finance that real priorities will not be avoided. I'm not going to bother the Minister of Finance with old chronicles. I think it might be more interesting to see what the Storting has agreed on in the past, the so-called rule of action. The so-called rule of action consisted of two parts. One was that we agreed on how much oil money we were going to spend. The second was that we agreed on what we were going to spend the oil money on. And we agreed that oil money should be invested in knowledge, in infrastructure and lower taxes for businesses to promote value creation in Norway. This has gone away from the red-green government. I registered that the Minister of Finance rejected the governor's year-end to spend less oil money. But then I want to remember the year last year, when the governor said that the oil money had to go to what they were going to spend on. Does the Minister of Finance agree that we need to go back to the real priority of oil money for investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e226	I don't mind being reminded of past outings, to use that expression. It's one of the crossroads of politics, you could say, that your previous statements are one of the worst things you can meet at the door. But you shouldn't mind it, if it happens, and neither do I. Then there's a discussion about what to spend the money for -- that's the real discussion. It underpins the difficulty of making a sharp distinction between different types of investment and use in the budget. To take an example that I have used on previous occasions: it is difficult over time to distinguish the social benefits of investing, for example. in one way and to invest in full child-care coverage, for which there has been a broad consensus in the Stortinget. Investing in the future workforce, for example: through full kindergarten development, kindergarten space for everyone, a good primary school and good education, is perhaps one of the most sensible and right things we should do – and as we have already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e233	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e236	Yeah, I guess we have all our crosses to carry. My question is not about the Minister of Finance thought he would be a finance minister again when he wrote the famous article, but my question is about the fact that the Minister of Transport has asked for two investigations relating to alternative forms of funding, for example. transport projects. Does the Minister of Finance expect anything new from this type of investigation, or does he think the status quo will pass?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e243	I believe that the most important thing – in any case – is the size of the framework, i.e. how much one is willing to prioritise, and how much one is willing to spend on road, rail and port investments within the national transport plan. Next year, the current plan will expire, and the plan will be rolled. And then we're going to get back to what's going to be the total frames. That's the one. The second is, as I've been about earlier today, the progress of important, heavy projects. There I think it is more to pick up – in being able to have a more coherent order and implementation of projects and to develop governance tools by putting it on its own budget headings and chapters. But starting to finance road projects outside the state budget, as some would like, is hardly a proposal that this Minister of Finance is going to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e248	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e251	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. We are many who read what the Minister of Finance writes. I noticed that the finance minister on 1 January of this year, i.e. at the beginning of this year, in today's business, referred to the old slogan: Do your duty, demand your right. I thought that was pretty nice. After all, the Minister of Finance is most politically responsible for managing our national wealth. We have a lot of money on book, and not least we have a lot of money, a lot of resources in the people of the country. It's almost become a political cliché to say that people are our most important asset, but that's absolutely true. It's very important that we have money on book, it's good, but it's also very important that we have people working at work. You might say that the assumption for the Norwegian model is that we have a community that means that if you fall outside, if you get sick, you have to get decent means of living to be able to live, but it assumes that those who can actually work are at work. The right has proposed an action, among many, to increase the number of active workers, namely an enhanced obligation to work for beneficiaries of economic social assistance. From the Labour Party some representatives have said that this is a terrible proposal, they have said that this is not the case at all, while other representatives have said that this is a good thing. From the Socialist Left Party, we have heard that the Right's proposal represents a human vision that can be bad. The Working Party and the Right have previously had a kind of big coalition for this particular line of work. It can be an important contribution to getting more people into work, activating people, instead of having them on passive support schemes. So my question to the Minister of Finance is whether he will support an enhanced obligation of activity for beneficiaries of economic social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e268	State Council Johnsen is given the opportunity to answer, but it is a question that obviously constitutionally falls within the competence of another State Council, because it is a matter of a concrete instrument. Nevertheless, the Council of State Johnsen has to assess whether he will comment on the fiscal aspects of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e271	Yes, the Minister of Finance and the Government are in favour of a reinforced line of work. It permeates politics, it permeates the way you have put in place labour market measures, it permeates what you have made of changes in disability, for example. in terms of obtaining redundancy payments and changing the system so that labour market policies become more activity-oriented. That's the one. The second – where I fully agree with the representative, Røe Isaksen – is that investing in the workforce, investing in the processing and development of labour is the most important thing this society can do. The labour force represents more than 80 pst. of the national wealth – we have used the calculation in the past – and if the oil wealth is 7-8 pst, you will have to put the jam in place to get the same return as you would get by increasing the return on capital labour in Norway today by 1 pst. Making sure people have a job, having low unemployment and high employment is essential for the Norwegian model. So is the old slogan from the trade union tabs, «Do your duty, demand your right», also valid today. This involves two things: on the one hand, no one should be unsure that if you fall out of work for a period of life, get sick or otherwise are unable to feed on your own work, you must have a social safety net. On the other hand, this means that it is important that you make demands on those people who are also going to contribute to society. It's part of the big social contract. I have nothing against discussing exactly this at a more general level, but, as the President said, I will be very careful to address the Minister of Labour's uniqueness in this spontaneous question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e280	We can stick to the macro numbers, because of course this also affects them. It is obviously important, and probably the most crucial thing for the well-being of Norway, to have many people at work. The Labour Party – the Minister of Finance – often likes to point out that more people have been employed, i.e. that there have never been more employed in Norway today than in the past. The challenge is that if you look at these numbers a little bit behind them, there are some problems with them -- it's creeping a little bit. One reason, of course, is that more people are employed simply because there are more people in Norway. It is partly due to immigration, and it is also due to the fact that the Nordics have children. The Minister of Finance himself has contributed well in this regard, but I do not know whether the government should have the credit for more children. I doubt whether the Minister of Finance would like to take responsibility for more children than he has. If you look at the employment rate among them between 16 and 74 years of age, it's exactly what it was in 2005. At the same time, the level of employment for them falls below the age of 24, the number of people with disabilities outside the labour market, and there are also more young social clients. What does the Minister of Finance want to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e289	Generally speaking, in terms of working life and the quality of work, on which I will choose to focus, it is important. I believe that both the representative Red Isaac and the undersigned can help to create good attitudes among their children in terms of the goodness of work as an arena both in order to obtain income and in order to realise the dreams of the future that each individual has. I think that's important for you to work on. Then I also agree with the representative of the Red Isaacs that the fact that in many municipalities we are now seeing a growth in the number of young people receiving social assistance, the fact that we are seeing a growth in the number of young people disabled, is a challenge that we all have to take seriously. One way to address this, which will obviously work, is to put in a stronger and greater effort at school to prevent young people from falling out of the educational cycle. It is also apparent from surveys that there is a close link between falling out of the education cycle and subsequent ports, for example. social assistance. There is a lot to tackle, but I am pleased that there is a common position on strengthening labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e296	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e300	I can agree with the Minister of Finance a lot, and there is a lot to address in this area. One of the things to address is something that was once called offer page policy. It is a fact that the employment rate in Norway has fallen since 2008, and it has not been possible to keep track of the amount of immigration to Norway, and that in a country that is screaming for labour. It should be a crossroads for the Minister of Finance. I am calling for some reforms: not only do you have to use whips in the labour market, you can also use carrots. One of the major differences between government and the Right in alternative budgets is that we have raised the deficits and the minimum tax deduction. We believe, and it's confirmed by an SSB study now, that the amount of work among the disabled is increasing sharply as soon as you get a little bit more back. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to use tax policy much more actively to increase supply in the Norwegian labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e309	In the case of specific tax proposals, we'll have to wait a few more months before we get to the state budget. But I want to point to a reform that has a strong influence on the supply of labour, namely the pension reform. It had a two-sided purpose. One was to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, the other was to set up the pension system to stimulate increased efforts in the labour market. Part of that reform was an early retirement scheme where you could retire from 62 years of age, and from the turn of the year last year, we made changes to the tax regime, so that one would be faced with the same marginal pension tax as at work, if you chose to continue in working life. Now I haven't seen the final figures on the employment effects for them over 62 years, but the preliminary figures show that by the end of 2011 there was a place between 60 and 70 pst. of which more than 62 are still at work. This is an example of a reform that works on the labour supply side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e314	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e317	In the early 1990s, when Stortinget discussed the concept of ‘workline’ in connection with the notification of re-employment, it was decided to help the weak labour market group to get work before, if necessary, it became subject to disability. Since today's government has taken over, we see an increasing number of the active population falling out of the labour market. We now have between 600 000 and 700 000 on health or social security benefits. That number is larger than ever. One might be tempted to ask questions about whether the ‘workline’ is rhetorical or a reality, when we see that the proportion of persons employed among people with disabilities has fallen in recent years, from 43.1 pst. to 42 pst. My question to the Minister of Finance will then be: Do you want to look at concrete things within the tax system that also stimulate business to employ more people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e324	When you look around Europe, there is one big difference between Norway and the countries we have around us. It is that the workline works largely in Norway. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and the second highest employment rate – after Iceland, as far as I can imagine. But there are some challenges in the labour market. One of the challenges is for those who have difficulty getting into the labour market. For this reason, the government has strengthened its efforts in the field of labour market policy towards these groups. I am concerned that we should be able to have a dialogue with, for example. employers on how to accept workers who are not 100 pst. to use that term. I think one of the big challenges we've had lately is that there's been good access to the workforce, which has made one perhaps less focused on just these groups. But this is going to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e333	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e336	Being allowed to contribute to work is about human dignity, because work is health-promoting. The aim of the working line is to replace passive social benefits with active benefits, so that they can be used as much as possible. It is good for individuals, and it is good for the economy that the Minister of Finance rules. There are many reasons why people are out of work. Those who are sick and cannot contribute will be allowed to do so, without any suspicion. That's why I think someone should at least focus on those who can and will work. I am actually a little surprised that the debate is often about unemployment. If you look at the number of people with disabilities, it's three times as many. Nav has defined that almost 220,000 need help to get back. Nevertheless, they will not be given any action. The labour market enterprises, which contribute to the training of workers, say that an average of about two years before one gets the help you need to come back. Why won't the Minister of Finance give them help right away?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e343	I will not go into a more detailed discussion on labour market measures, but I have two general comments: In fact, the right to contribute is quite important. What we see around Europe is that 25 million have lost the right to contribute to the labour market. So we have to keep that tab high all the time. That's the one. The second is that we also have to make sure that those who want to do a job, those who want to contribute, but who are somewhere between 0 and 100 on the scale – from not being able to work to being able to work 100 pst. – also have to have a chance. In this interaction there are at least three parties. One is the employer, the other is the employee, and the third is the authorities. I am concerned that we must try to formulate a policy in which we can achieve this. We rely on a fruitful tripartite collaboration to get it done, because we depend on employers at the other end who are willing to bet and take the chance. There are many good stories to tell about employers who have just taken the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e354	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e357	Consumers’ interests related to some difficult savings products have been addressed in recent times. Last night, we saw a report in the Day Review of a woman who had been persuaded by a financial and investment company not only to spend their savings, but also to raise millions of loans on the apartment to invest in very complicated savings products. Now she wants out of this because she thinks she's misinformed, and she means like a lot of others. There is no easy way to go from being tricked and thinking of having the right to have this cancelled, to have a finish line set for the matter that you are concerned about. We have a system where we have a financial complaint subject that will ensure that the threshold is low for those who have complaints in this sector. But the fact is that for many there is a very heavy and long way to go. In fact, many people also feel that they do not get through without having to bring a lawyer with them – thus risking additional money on an already expensive case. The financial industry said yesterday that they were very pleased with how the Financial Complaint Board worked. The term is funded by the same industry, and they are themselves in the denominator. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is he as satisfied with the subject of the Financial Complaint as the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e366	Let me start a little bit at the other end. One of the things that makes this difficult is that it's become more complicated. It was much easier when I got my first bank book, got five ears on a savings cart and got interest and balance in the bankbook. Now this is a lot more complicated. We have seen that a lot has happened that makes it difficult for consumers to learn about this landscape. Therefore, it is primarily for the government to be concerned with the consumer’s interests in the middle of this. That is the advice they should and should receive from the banks and financial institutions. That's where we've tightened up the code. It also concerns the possibility of following up that this actually happens. There we have strengthened the Financial Supervisory Authority. As late as March 27, we sent a new proposal to consult to strengthen the role of the Financial Supervisory Authority in this regard. Consumer safety is important for the Minister of Finance, and I hear that it is also important for the representative of Syversen. I am very pleased about that, because I think this is an area where there is a need for joint political action. There are different ways to organize this. It is such that the law should also be interpreted by the courts, so that one can always have the court there. One of the reasons for the introduction of the Financial Complaint was that it would relieve the courts of the simple cases. We need a system where one tries to have a buffer before the courts. I have also noticed that a number of questions have been raised in the Financial Complaints Department's way of working, that banks, for example. has not followed up decisions and it is nevertheless necessary to go to the courts. In the further work ahead, I am open to consider other ways of organizing this, but I will come back to that, including. in relation to the draft representative submitted by the representative of Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e378	I am very pleased with the positive signals given by the Minister of Finance that this is an area of government and he will follow up, because I have to admit that after the Christian People's Party promoted the proposal to ensure consumers better, there are a few times that one has received so many feedback and responses from both lawyers, consumers and people who have been in the law commission. Everything suggests that there is an area we need to go deeper into to ensure the balance between financial institutions and consumers better than today. So my follow-up question is: since the Council of State responded so positively, does this mean that one will look further at both the law, the financial complaint itself and the role of supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e385	Basically, I think it is important that we as consumers have a healthy scepticism when we get very good offers. It should be a little bit in human nature, but that's the other way of looking at it. Then it's important that we have strong consumer protection, and there we have the law we can use. What is at stake is a proposal for possible changes to the law to strengthen the role of the Financial Supervision in monitoring consumer safety and consumer responsibility in relation to financial products. It also means that I am willing to see if one of them will have a complaint subject according to today's model, or if one, for example. shall have a different type of model. However, it is also part of a whole – which is, to the extent, the ownership of the banks – that involves the role of the Financial Supervision and, finally, the Courts. There must be a whole and a coherence in what is meant to protect consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e392	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e395	I am pleased with the Minister of Finance's response and that he clearly acknowledges that the framework we have, not necessarily good enough, in the light of the developments the Minister of Finance himself mentions, with increasingly complex products for consumers to deal with. Now it is, according to the Evening Post, that out of 29 advisory complaints on which the Finanzkappelnende has given opinions, only six have ended up in the favour of consumers. 15 of the other cases concerned the same company. I'm glad the Minister of Finance is open to look at the issue. ‘Open to Look at’ is one thing, but what concrete initiatives will the Minister of Finance take to investigate alternative organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e404	The most concrete thing in this round is what we have now sent to consult on the role of the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Financial Crisis Committee dealt with this issue. There was a split position; some were in favour of a state name, while others would strengthen the role of the Financial Supervision, including the Ministry of Finance representative in the sample. It is important that we have strong and good financial supervision, and that is the most immediate minister of finance now. But then I say that I am willing to see if one will also organise the Financial Complaints in a slightly different way from today. Then we'll see – during the treatment – if there are changes here, but I'm open to looking at it. Finally, I would like to say that stressing – not least to the financial industry itself – the importance of providing good and proper advice to their customers is trust building between financial institutions and customers. Ownership here is also unusually important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e415	Jørund Rytman – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e418	When you look at the subjects of the Financial Complaint, you can see that many cases – as mentioned above – have a long period of time, often half-way and up to two years of treatment. You can also see that it is quickly expensive for the complainant to deal with the processes of the name, because you need a lawyer quickly. It can also be seen that the Netherlands has dealt with issues such as banking. has recommended and advised banking customers to raise loans up to six to seven times their income in order to invest in structured savings products. The Council of State said that it would now strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority, so the question is: What control does the Financial Supervisory Authority carry out today with the activities of the Financial Complaint Board to ensure that everything goes right and that independence and processes are properly maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e425	Now it is the case that the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority are not directed against the activities of the Financial Complaint Board as such. Financial supervision focuses on banks and financial institutions. It is where the Financial Supervisory Authority shall be ‘hands-on’ to use an expression from the Hedmark. It is important to have strong financial supervision, it is important to have consistent financial supervision, and it is important that one also controls similar cases equally. The representative of Mr Rytman shall not be afraid that the Minister for Finance is not concerned with consumer safety on a broad scale in relation to these issues. Then again, I would like to stress the ownership that we as consumers and customers have, but also – as I clearly stated on the FNO day just before Easter – the responsibility that banks themselves have for giving good advice. It builds up under the confidence of banks, lenders and depositors and is unusually important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e432	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e435	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. Norway has many cultural treasures. We have a cultural heritage that is important, and we have buildings and objects that need to be taken care of. I heard on the radio, I think it was yesterday, about a great despair that there is so much discussion about moving the Viking ships from Bygdøy, and that the Viking ships are standing and crumbling. You want to make a decision now, and you're not sure what the government wants to do with these Viking ships. Should we move them, or should we take care of them? Do we have a choice? National theatre cracks from floor to roof. It rages from the roof, and you have to close the streets around. State Building has now received a state report showing a high cost of 900 million. kr. But the uncertainty is, will the government spend money on this? Do we have a choice? The national gallery shall be moved to the West Railway with the reason for poor maintenance, too crowded, too poor indoor climate. But what will the Council of State do with all these challenges? What will the Council of State do to take care of the cultural taxes, the buildings, the objects that we have around the country? We have a lot of challenges, and I want to challenge the state councils on some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e448	Building protection has been a very central part of the cultural promise made by the government. Since 2005, we have increased the allocation of the museum sector – almost doubled what the museums get from the state. It helps us to restore many old buildings, so that more can be taken care of. With regard to the concrete buildings that Thomsen's representative is in, he first talks about the Viking ships. There we will now have an investigation of the state, and there are different discussions and different opinions whether the Viking ships should be moved to Bjørvika, or whether they will tolerate such a move. Then I, and the government together, will pay attention to the professional advice we obtain on that occasion. In the case of National Theatre, there's a building that's been standing since the end of the 1800s. There has been a building maintenance trail that has made it very much that remains if we are to put the building back into its predominating beauty. Therefore, Statsbygg has carried out an analysis and made an overview of how much it will cost to put the building back as it was originally at the end of the 1800s. But I'm going to think that we might also need other changes to this building. Not only do we have to put it back in the condition it was, but we also have to make it possible to run modern theaters in this building. That's why I have a dialogue with the National Theatre Board about how we can both meet the demands of the Riksantikvaren and enable the theater to run modern theaters in the building. In the case of the National Museum, this has been discussed in this Chamber on several occasions. I want to have a discussion about what we're going to use the original National Gallery for. The Storting will be presented with a new case about a new national museum, which will enable us to take care of our unique old images.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e460	With the Viking ships, it's urgent. Whether to move or not is discussed. What's happening now is that the Viking ships are standing and crumbling. The ships are forgotten. This is what's urgent. In the case of the National Gallery, the NRK had a Focus Programme that highlighted part of the arguments for moving the National Gallery. Arguments used for moving were indoor climates, space shortages and maintenance. All of this disproved NRK Focus by interviewing people who have been central to the whole process and who say that there are typographical errors. There is nothing wrong with the indoor climate – it can be adjusted. Look at Denmark. There's no space shortage. See what we have standing empty on the third floor. It is not about maintenance, it is normal maintenance – i.e. a typographical error, which the Council of State has informed Stortinget about. Will the Council of State come back to the Storting and re-examine what is right with regard to the future of the National Gallery?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e467	There is certainly no single issue in the field of culture that has been more debated — and especially with the Progress Party in this Chamber — than the National Museum. In the case of this claim concerning typographical errors, this does not result in correctness. What is referred to is what should be the limits of humidity. The Annex to the Spring 2009 phase 1 competition programme states that the assembly must be able to withstand an air humidity of between 40 pst. and 65 pst. This means that what is to be in the new national museum must be able to withstand that variation in humidity. In the annex delivered in second round, this is adjusted to withstand again an air humidity of between 40 pst. and 65 pst. That means that the paintings tolerate it, and the buildings to be designed in the architectural contest must take account of this variation in humidity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e474	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e477	I've been on a Easter tour in Barcelona and I've seen museums and cathedrals that we can only dream of having here in Norway. Still, we have some great cultural treasures, including the National Theatre, which it's important to take care of. As the Minister of Culture himself had in mind, the building has not been a priority in terms of maintenance and follow-up, which is very sad when we look at developments that have occurred until now. There has been no tradition in Norway of spending money on maintenance and caring for the national taxes we have. It's being built a lot new. The Council of State is aware that the amount from government to museums and art institutions has been doubled. That's because the government now has a lot more money than you've had before. But what is important is that these museums and cultural institutions are also told that maintenance must be given priority, because these are taxes that we must take care of. My question to the Minister of Culture is: What will the Council of State do to set up a maintenance plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e488	Through the cultural promise we have taken care of many old buildings. Not least in the representative's home country, Rogaland, the Cultural Promise has enabled us to take care of many old houses, many old buildings. When it comes to the question of National Theatre, we have wanted – and we did this in the big news Behind the scenes – that State Building should be able to take over this building in the same way that State Building today has the Opera, and that a rent is paid on the part of the Opera to State Building. That's this model we want to facilitate at the National Theatre as well. It requires a good deal of refurbishment, so that the theater can be set back as it was in its original form, but I think it also requires something more. These include: the need to improve the quality of the public facilities. It can also be that we need to look at the possibilities for a further slope, so that it becomes better visibility, especially for children who are at the theater. It is also about the needs of a modern cultural institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e495	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e498	My compassion is great in the role of the Minister of Culture in relation to cultural buildings. A significant number of cultural buildings are on the waiting list in the department. There are major challenges that we face with both legs, for example. The National Museum, but there are also several billion projects. I assume that in this room there is agreement that buildings such as the National Theatre and other buildings of that character must be maintained and passed on. I don't see that there's any political difference here. The problem is simply that there's a terrible amount of money going out, and the Minister of Finance probably won't come running with them any faster than he has to. The question is whether there is a need to think differently, and then there is public-private cooperation, which Right has pointed out. Is there also something that the Minister of Culture will consider in relation to the cultural construction or maintenance of such buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e505	The answer to that question is yes. After all, we have received private co-financing in the Norwegian Maritime Museum, where private individuals now want to take greater responsibility, and which is also related to the fact that the State is now taking responsibility for this museum. This is absolutely an example of private-public cooperation. But I think it may be difficult for individuals to take over responsibility for the financing of the rehabilitation of the National Theatre. I think the state must bear the primary responsibility for that. But it is clear that we aim to get private to participate more in the financing and rehabilitation of old buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e510	We go to the next main question, which is also asked by the representative Olemic Thommess.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e513	The Councils of Cultural States may be in a position to stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e518	I had a suspicion of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e522	I will bring attention to the Easter programs of the NRK and what I believe is the absence of our Christian heritage. The Christian-humanistic perspective or the significance of our Christian religion for Norwegian cultural heritage is undisputed, and it should be as natural for the NRK to bring up that perspective as many of the other perspectives that we have imposed on the NRK to cover in the general programming poster. So we now see that there is a lack of space on the big programming surfaces, and that the small thing that could be said to be relevant to the Easter message is a very marginal transmission surface – perhaps it is about radio oratories and NRK P2 and such things. So in the big picture, this is over here. In the larger picture, this goes into the discussions we have before Christmas, where schools are unsure whether you can sing hymns and go to Christmas service. We have similar examples in other parts of the year. This reflects an undissolved relationship with our own religious position and with our own religious tradition. I think that's very unfortunate, because through it we rob ourselves of a relationship with both our own history and with a conceptual device, or – what to say – an attitudeal device for meeting people anchored in other religions. Understanding people who reason on the basis of religion and religiously anchored thinking is also very much about your own position. I wonder how the Council of Cultural States reflects on this, and whether the Council of Cultural States believes it would be right to bring this perspective closer to the NRC.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e531	I believe that the discussion about what kind of programs the NRK should have is an important discussion. But I want to be crystal clear that it's not in any way, whether it's about the Christian message or – which the Progress Party has been busy about – getting Dream Garden into the NRK, my job is to dictate what kind of broadcasting program the NRK should have. Neither in Easter nor in other celebrations, I want to go in and have opinions about church programs, Norsktoppen or Dreamhagen. That distance must be there. So this is NRK's full responsibility. On the other hand, we have a body that deals with that kind of discussion, and representatives of political parties are well represented. Former head of the Culture Committee in Stortinget, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, is the head of the Broadcasting Council, and they regularly address the type of discussion – because it is important that there are discussions about what kind of programme the NRK offers. You constantly get strong reactions from the viewers. This creates a big commitment. I urge the representative to hold this discussion in the bodies where it should be held. It is not relevant for me to have opinions about what kind of broadcasting program NRK has in the Easter, in the summer or at other festivals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e538	Of course, I agree with the Council of State that one cannot interfere with individual programmes, such as Dreamhagen and others. But this is on a different level. This is about what order we as a state and we as a magnification have to the NRK, through the NRK, i.e. the public broadcasting poster. We have a document that downgrades our attitude to what should be displayed. There is not a single word either about Christian religion or about religious anchoring at all. It should. In the general programming poster, it should say that the NRK is obliged to reflect our Christian-Humanist tradition and our Christian-Humanist heritage in line with the cultural heritage of the rest. This is not primarily a responsibility for the NRK. I believe that this is a political responsibility in relation to the political order we make. I want to challenge the Minister of Culture on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e543	We had a discussion about this about TV 2, in connection with the new agreement we are going to conclude with TV 2. Then we left this as a requirement, and one of the reasons for that was that it was more difficult to govern through the agreement we have than we had through a previous concession. Then we declined this requirement that there should be religious content in the programs. This, of course, creates discussion. If the representative wants to change the broadcaster, he has to deal with it in a regular way, because it's the way, through the general principles, that we set the framework for the NRK's activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e550	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Linda C. Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e553	The Christian message is a bearer of our cultural heritage, and after the NRK has almost erased this Easter message from its mission form, or at best hidden it in niche channels in less attractive transmission times, there is every reason to stress to the NRK that they have a responsibility to convey the Christian message. When we dealt with the NRK poster in 2008, the government proposed that the dissemination of Norway's Christian and humanist cultural heritage belong naturally to one of the NRK's pillars on the public broadcasting poster. What surprises me now, and which I hope the Council of State may be able to clarify – because it stands a little in contrast to what she said to Thommess in the meantime – is why the government has not yet ensured that our Christian and humanist cultural heritage is one of the pillars of the NRK poster.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e560	If you want to change the NRK poster, you get to deal with it normally in the Storting. It is likely to come up for treatment again. If the representative wants to change it now – well, it is possible to submit proposals and get a discussion about it in this room. On the other hand, it's not relevant for me to go in and manage the broadcasting program to the NRK, because it's through the overall governing bodies, like the poster, we put the framework for NRK's activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e565	Øyvind Korsberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e568	I notice that the Council of State does not want to go into the programme offer to the NRK, but it is only 14 days since the Council of State was out with brash and bram and was happy that many sports broadcasts were going to the NRK, and that is obviously part of the programme offer. The media industry is a major change in ownership, in technology and in economics. The NRK is in a special position because they get 5 billion. kr following a decision here in Stortinget, while other media companies have to go into the harsh reality and fight for the crowns. There is no hiding that under this government the license has increased by 30 pst. – during the Bondevik government, it increased by 7 pst. So here it's a good collaboration. There is a big debate in many arenas about the NRK. Does the Council of State not see the need on the part of the government to lift that debate into the main hall?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e577	Of course, if we're going to re-examine the NRK poster, it's also possible to discuss this aspect. But it is also the case that representatives on their own, free-standing, can make proposals in this Chamber on changes to the NRK poster. This will be the reason. With regard to the detailed regulation of sports broadcasts, no one has gone so far as to want detailed regulations as the representative himself, as he thought I should go in and manage that TIL fights should be more widely displayed on the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e584	That's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e590	Øyvind Hope - to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e593	The undissolved relationship with our own religious heritage and our Christian tradition referred to here is precisely touching on some of the foundations for us as communities and our security in the face of globalisation and a more multicultural reality. In connection with the setting up of Abraham's children, Svein Tindberg said the following to the Norwegian Theatre: ‘But at the same time, there are the big basic stories in society that are particularly tempting to address. They have formed us as human beings and have so many layers. And we're about to lose them." Regardless of whether there may be disagreement on the wording of the NRK poster, it is already stated in the NRK’s statutes, as proposed by the government, that ‘the NRK shall reflect Norway’s religious heritage’. Could the Minister of Culture reflect a little on what she puts in such a formulation, in the light of the great Christian festivals?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e603	I want to be careful to go in and say in detail what importance this will have for the NRK's broadcasting programme, but that means that they will have a responsibility to communicate the humanistic and Christian cultural heritage, and that it is part of the NRK's public broadcasting mission. Whether the NRK fulfills this mission at the individual ceremony, I would like to invite the representative to bring up with the Broadcasting Board. They regularly have that kind of discussions, and they have broad public discussions about just that kind of issues. This will provide the basis for NRK’s programme activities, but does not mean that I am the top boss and will recognise how to fulfill this mission at each festival.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e612	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-11.ana.ud1409e625	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
