ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e57	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e60	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Per-Kristian Foss, Marit Nybakk, Dagfinn Høybräten, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Trine Skei Grande, Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to amend the Constitution § 14 in order to exclude the appointment of magnification representatives as state secretaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e65	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e81	The research debate may seem to be about numbers, crowns, and percentages. However, the debate on research policy must also focus on what steps we can take to lift Norwegian research, what policies and measures we can develop politically to address challenges and exploit opportunities, so that the social return on research efforts is as high as possible. At the same time, we need to think smart and long-term, bet in areas where we have special advantages, make sure to position Norway in international research cooperation, make it attractive for young talents to invest in a research career and ensure Norwegian researchers access to high-quality infrastructure. It is important to take care of schemes that reward our leading research communities, but also to ensure sufficient funding for free, curiosity-driven research. For no one has been given to know what the scientific breakthrough of the future can give us of new technologies, products, businesses and industries. In 2012, the right will also raise interpellations and promote representative proposals here in the Storting on these and other issues of research policy. Then we will first of all have to take the number debate when we deal with the budgets. Today's interpellation is partly an exception. My interpellation is about how much private research effort is and, more importantly, how much it should be in Norway and how we should get there. Enterprise investment in research and knowledge development is important for at least four reasons: The overall Norwegian research effort shall provide society with the diversity of new knowledge needed to solve challenges in all parts of society, thus safeguarding tomorrow’s value creation and well-being. It is obvious that research in enterprises is necessary to do this. It is also natural that the overall research effort of society must be a spice layer, with public funding primarily to ensure basic research, infrastructure and research where the social return is high. Private funding will naturally be channelled into more entrepreneurial research, where business-economy returns can be the first. So we know that Norwegian companies have a high cost level compared to most competitors in other countries. It is above all higher quality and more innovative products that can withstand this cost reduction. The commitment to research and development in industry contributes greatly to this and thus strengthens the competitiveness of enterprises. Finally, companies and countries that are going to do well in the future must have a high level of innovation, i.e. a willingness to change and opportunities to develop and/or implement new technologies and solutions. Business research strengthens the innovation capacity of industry and thus of the whole country. Most developed countries have set targets for their research efforts. The measurements vary roughly between 2.5 and 5 pst. GDP. Norway has relied on the EU recommendation that the total research effort should be 3 pst. GDP. This can be seen as a measure of how much of today’s value creation should be set aside and invested in new knowledge to ensure tomorrow’s value creation. Furthermore, the public interest shall be 1 pst. and business share 2 pst. GDP. Compared to most countries it is natural to compare with, Norway is making good progress in public research efforts, which are now just below the target of 1 pst. GDP. The private research effort, on the other hand, amounts to only approx. 0.7 pst. of GDP, although it has been a relatively strong growth in the last 15 years. The private research effort thus needs to be almost tripled in order to achieve the objective set by the government, as well as to have an increase that keeps pace with projected GDP growth in the future. It is not difficult to see that this will require much new policies, stronger instruments and certainly even more shy incentives than what we have today. Nevertheless, when the Right and the undersigned have challenged the Minister for Research on several occasions on this subject, the answers have been elusive. According to Soria Moria I and II, the target is 3 pst. for research, although the time-limit for reaching the target was deleted in the Soria Moria II declaration. The Minister of Research did not want to answer whether the government has a plan to achieve this goal, in addition to referring to today's instruments. But in a line-up in the debate on this year's budget, she admitted that the weak research effort in business was her great concern. I would assume that the Minister of Industry also shares this concern, as there will be agreement later on on on the importance of investing in a more knowledge-based business in the future. I also believe that the government's research committee has discussed this issue and that the Minister of Industry has therefore assessed how the existing instruments, which are largely in his department, could have been strengthened. Although industry’s increased research effort must primarily come from businesses and be financed by industry, some of the measures will involve increased public budget lines, for example. if TAX FUNN is to be extended and strengthened or other tax incentives established. Strong growth in the research effort of industry needs to be followed up with increased frameworks in the public sector schemes, such as: the scheme User-led innovation arena. I would therefore like to stress that I believe that the public research budgets need to be increased beyond 1 pst. GDP if such strong growth in the private sector is to be realised, in order to achieve the overall 3 pst. target. The comfort is that the growth in research efforts in industry does not have to be as large as today's figures suggest, unless we do not do as our Nordic neighbouring countries do and adjust the target to 4 pst. GDP. But first of all, it must be made clear whether the government has plans to achieve the goal it has set itself. Of course, there is a complicate factor in the absence of a time limit for achieving the target, after the government has removed it when the current Research Communication was adopted in 2009. I therefore look forward to the Minister of Industry's reply. So my questions are summed up: the government maintains the goal of investing 3 pst. of GDP in research? The industry's share is still going to be 2 pst.? When does the Minister of Industry think this goal can be achieved? What strategy will the Minister of Industry recommend to the government in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e120	The issue of the representative Warloe travels is important and interesting, but also more complex than it is produced in the interpellation. Research gives rise to new ideas, forms of organisation and technological solutions that can contribute to increased innovation in industry and the public sector. Research is also a tool to turn ideas into innovative solutions. The research effort put into enterprises and universities, colleges, health companies and research institutes contributes to a better state of the art for the future of today's and tomorrow's activities. According to preliminary figures published by the Statistical Central Bureau on 28 October 2011, industry spent 18.5 billion. kr for own research and development carried out in 2010. The year before, business spent 18.2 billion. kr on own R & D and purchased R & D services for 5,6 billion. kr in addition to own R & D effort. Unfortunately, we do not have figures for the purchase of R & D for 2010 yet because the SSB has not planned to publish final and complete R & D statistics for 2010 until the end of February 2012. Furthermore, there was a clear growth in the R & D effort of industry from 2005 to 2008, but thereafter growth has stopped. Based on the preliminary publication by the SSB, industrial investment in own R & D as a share of gross domestic product fell from 0.78 in 2009 to 0.74 in 2010. This is about the same level as in 2007 and 2008. The number of enterprises reporting own research activity is almost unchanged. It is primarily the activity of the average entity that is somewhat diminished. There is reason to believe that this slowdown has a background to uncertainty regarding both financing and market prospects, which has followed the financial turmoil over the last few years. The international economic crisis is likely to have a noticeable impact on Norwegian business as well. One of the consequences is that Norwegian companies seem to have to postpone or reduce investment in long-term knowledge development, research and innovation. From the 2008-2010 innovation survey just presented by the SSB, we know that economic factors appear to have particular significance for the innovation activities of enterprises. Both innovators and non-innovators have seen an increase in the proportion of enterprises reporting that one or more inhibitory factors have been very important, or rather important, to prevent or limit their innovation activity. Excessive innovation costs, lack of funding within the enterprise or group and lack of funding from sources outside the enterprise are the most reported. However, the financial contribution from government to industry has never been as high as this year. The appropriations for the Research Council of the Ministry of Industry and Trade budget have increased from 896 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 1 360 million. kr in 2012. Industrial aid to R & D above the NHD budget, which also includes R & D contracts in Innovation Norway and space research, amounted to approximately 1370 million. kr in 2005 and increased to approximately 2 200 million. kr in 2012. In other words, there has been a significant increase from this government in investment in research in and for industry. The current instruments and appropriate measures that interact with them are also located in other departments. In this respect, I would like to refer to the Minister of Research and Higher Education's response to the interpellation of the representative of Warloe on 17 November 2011. The increase from 2011 in the allocation of the budget of the NHD to the programmes of the Norwegian Research Council is aimed at strengthening research on biotechnology and nanotechnology and commercialising research results. This year’s allocation to the BIA programme will allow for a call of 450 million. kr for a four-year period. It's a significant call. The total amount allocated in the BIA since the start in 2006 is 2.3 billion. kr. Total funds invested in BIA projects — including industry’s own contribution — amount to approximately 6.5 billion. kr. The government continues to maintain a high level of activity under the scheme of R & D contracts under Innovation Norway in 2012. For 2012, this scheme will include, inter alia: emphasis is placed on projects in industry where Norway has a natural advantage and on projects contributing to the internationalisation of Norwegian enterprises. Representative Warloe also mentions SkattenFUNN, which is under the Treasury Minister's portfolio, in its interpellation. TAX FUNN was introduced for small and medium-sized enterprises from 1 January 2012 and for all enterprises from 1 January 2003. The number of enterprises using TAX FUNN has decreased every year since 2004. At the same time, average aid amounts per undertaking have grown. The government has strengthened the TaxFUNN over the last few years. As of the fiscal year 2009, the annual project cost of own R & D increased from 4 million. NOK to SEK 5.5 million. NOK 8 million and 8 million. NOK 11 million. kr for purchased R & D. Furthermore, the government updated the legislation with effect from 1 January 2011, inter alia: a new definition of experimental development was included. The tax FUNN scheme is thus now relevant to undertakings developing technologies where investment into demo or pilot installations is required. Total tax credits decreased slightly between 2005 and 2008, but increased again in 2009. In 2010 and 2011, a relatively flat trend is expected. The tax expenditure for 2012 has been estimated at approximately 1 300 million. kr. The long-term objective of total research effort to be 3 pst. GDP is fixed, broken down by public and private sectors. This is the same long-term objective that the EU has, and reflects approximately both the level and the distribution between industry and the public sector in the United States. However, the government has also underlined the need to shift the focus of research policy from such a resource effort target to the results of efforts. The development of resources used in the field of research is not in itself a good indicator of the development of quality and performance. Neither the Soria Morias 3 Pst. goal nor the OECD average is an end-of-life goal in itself, but only one of several goals of a development path that will help us, as a nation, to be sufficiently equipped to meet tomorrow's challenges. The ability of society to transfer and use research-based knowledge is central. The distance to the 3 p.m. target was marked in some years by the research policy debate in Norway. It must not overshadow what we have actually achieved in the area. The government's high level of ambition for public funds and the total amount of research investment remains constant. A good business and research policy does not depend on the achievement of the target figure in 2012 but on the contribution of the country's total resources to the best possible future value creation. Our ultimate goal is for Norway to become one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world. It's an ambitious goal. Our ability to create values in the future will certainly depend even more on our ability to develop and apply new knowledge than today. This requires that Norwegian society can exploit research results that have been developed internationally, and that we ourselves are in the research front where we have opportunities to do so. The necessary transformation and further development of current business life as well as the establishment of new businesses will in the years to come be even more knowledge-based. If we are to be able to face future competition, it will be absolutely necessary to strengthen the knowledge base of the existing business as well as of the public knowledge providers. But it is also a mixed picture we have of the development, where low research investment in business coincides with Norway's high level of research annuals and research personnel. Of the resources used for R & D, the number of persons involved is likely to tell the most about the ability of the economy to build and disseminate new knowledge. As the number of year-olds is defined by the OECD, enterprises in Norway appear as the eighth most annual intensive among OECD countries. It also tells us something else about the research ambition. There are about 64 000 employees in what we call research personnel, of which more than 23 000 are in business. In 2010, there were about 10,000 new higher graduates from universities and higher education institutions and about 1,000 PhD candidates in addition. This means that even though all the graduates went into research, it will take four to five years or more before a doubling of the research staff takes place. Of course, this is too simple to compare, but it conveys that it is not reasonable to face a situation where the majority of the graduates go into pure research. Not only is it impossible to see what means we should use, but this will lead to business and administration not having access to qualified and newly educated candidates during the same period. Developing a more knowledge-based business involves increasing research focus, but increasing research activity must be a long-term process. The R & D effort of industry will depend on the general framework conditions, on the availability of research resources and knowledge, and on own funding and triggering public funding. When this is the case, it is the responsibility of industry to carry out research and development for future competitiveness. Over the course of a few years, financial market turmoil has dampened business activity. It shows how important the government’s contribution to financial markets has been and that what can be achieved through selective measures is limited. In order for new knowledge to lead to innovation in the private or public sector, it must be used. The interaction of enterprises with research environments is important. This is done directly through the commercialisation of research results and indirectly through the recruitment by industry of candidates and researchers, mission research, knowledge dissemination and development of competences. Universities, colleges, health enterprises and institutes are also important exchange ports for knowledge and technology developed in different countries through participation in international research cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e158	It is true that I have addressed this issue, as also mentioned by the Council of State, in previous interpellation, and it has been addressed in different contexts. But it's hard to get an answer to what we're asking about, and unfortunately it was also in the contribution from the Minister of Industry. I am aware that the objective remains that Norway should be one of the most innovative countries in the world. I did not choose to use it against the government in my first post, because I agree with the Council of State that it is a very ambitious goal. It may be an understatement, as it is called, especially when we know that Norway is the worst in the Nordic region. We are at the bottom of research and development efforts, we are below the average in Europe for innovation, we are also the worst in the Nordic region for the commercialisation of research results – here in Stortinget, just before Christmas, a separate proposal from the Right on enhanced commercialisation of research was discussed. We are also, showing indicators from the Research Council that came last autumn, the worst on cooperation and contact between academia – universities and colleges – and business. So Norway is different from the other Nordic countries, which are easy to compare with, actually. So in all of these conditions and factors, we're in the worst position in the Nordic region. What is a little sad is that the other Nordic countries are not only better than us in the Nordic countries, they are also at the top of the European countries. Sweden is on top, Finland is on top, Denmark is on top. So we have something to go after. That's why we are now challenging the Minister of Industry, and former Minister of Research and Higher Education: What does the government think about this? One thing is to frame up what you're doing, but it's obviously not that politics works satisfactorily when we score so badly. So I get to repeat my questions: does the government maintain the goal of investing 3 pst. of GDP in research? The industry's share is still going to be 2 pst.? When does the Council of State believe that the goal can be achieved? The NHO has developed a plan that shows that the target can be achieved by 2030, but it also requires considerable efforts. What strategy will the Minister of Industry recommend to the government in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e169	As I said in my previous post, the 3 pst. goal is fixed. It is a fact that the Norwegian research effort has never increased as strongly as it has done under the red-green government. In fact, as a percentage, the research budgets have increased as much as the cultural budgets, as I know well, and as I know, the representative of Warloe also knows well. We've been talking a lot about a cultural promise. There are few who have spoken about a research promise, but the reality is that the percentage increase has been partly greater over these years – about the same as the increase in culture, but in billions much more because the starting point of course was much larger budgets. And it's also true that we're a little bit lower in private business. Now it is no disadvantage that we have a very high GDP, and therefore a great research effort does not make up as much of GDP as it does in many other countries. Among other things, it's caused by very large oil revenues, which means that we get a lot of money back. The billions we spend on research, for example. in the oil and gas sectors, large investments, but percentage of gross turnover they generate, do not constitute as much as in other industries. We're going to be happy for that, because it brings huge income to our country. At the same time, the representative Warloe describes a true and fair view that the world economy is becoming more knowledge-based, and that being an innovative nation requires continuous efforts to improve knowledge, production processes and products. I think we've gotten better over the last few years in commercialising research results. I think our universities and research institutions are doing an increasingly better job of contributing to bud shooting, to corporate investment, to patenting, to business development. We need good research environments at universities, colleges, health companies and research institutes, but we also need to have this bridge into the business community, which the representative is also involved in. It is also an important objective to increase the quality of Norwegian research, because it is not only the number of crowns or the number of heads – as it is easy to measure – that is crucial, but also that the quality of research is of international value, that it actually contributes to the development of unique, sought-after knowledge, which is also useful for Norwegian business development. It is then an important objective that the Norwegian research communities and knowledge companies have close international research cooperation, including: through broad participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development. We need to realise that the vast majority of new knowledge will be developed in countries other than Norway, and the fact that our environments can use it quickly and efficiently is of great importance for Norwegian business as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e184	It's a very important theme of the interpellant here. In order to create a basis for future value creation and well-being, it is crucial that our companies use new knowledge and research on nutrition rights. We're probably a couple of people about this, all of them. We might also be able to say that we haven't reached our goal of 3 pst. of GDP for business research. A knowledge-based society based on knowledge-intensive, commodity-based industries with a relatively low level of patenting is poorly influenced by the usual international indicators. Even research-intensive enterprises such as Statoil come out poorly, because the petroleum industry is defined as low-tech. Indicators also capture to a lesser extent the impacts of innovation in the public sector. But although it should and can be rejected more from the business side, it is not that the 3 pst. goal is a goal in itself. The government has set itself a bold goal of becoming one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world. To achieve this goal, an active industrial policy will be pursued. A targeted effort, especially in the marine and maritime sectors, the environment, energy and travel, is the opposite of a business-neutral policy. Public R & D support for enterprises in industry has been significantly strengthened over the last ten years and is now at a relatively high level compared to other countries. The research council's support for business increased by more than 300 million. kr for the period 2006-2010. In 2010, there were about 2.3 billion. In order to provide public support to R & D in industry through the Research Council and the SkattenFUNN, which the representative was also involved in. It was about 10 pst. by the public support of R & D. My claim is that in this debate, too, we will experience that the representatives from the Right measure the situation we have in Norway, especially when it comes to Norwegian business. Neither research effort nor innovation in Norway is as bad as many people want it to and produce it as they do. Right will also open up to the TaxFUNN scheme to cover innovation activities. The problem is that it will create major mitigation challenges: What is innovation, and what are more operational activities? This will challenge the TaxFUNN scheme, and the danger may be that much will end up in the legal system. The government has put in place a number of mechanisms to strengthen cooperation between universities and businesses, research in and for business and the commercialisation of research results. In particular, a notable scheme with the Centre for Research-driven Innovation and Research Centres for Environmental Energy, Norwegian Centres of Expertise, the Närings-Ph.d. scheme, is a tool for regional R & D and innovation, VRI. I would also like to mention the regional research fund scheme. User-driven research, where enterprises are project leaders for the research project, has been strengthened. Here the project's expected triggering effect on the company's own R & D activity is a criterion for allocation. That's good. The system of commercialisation of research results from universities, colleges, institutes and health professionals has also been strengthened in recent years through the FORNY 2020 programme. I also want to mention HAV21 and MAREANO. We're actually researching no maritime for nearly 3 billion. kr annually in this country. There's a lot of money, but we always have to ask ourselves, do we use the resources right? What kind of knowledge do we need for years to come? Is there the area where we need to strengthen our efforts? Environmental technology is another theme I would like to pursue. In 2011, in order to increase efforts towards the development of eco-innovation, we have established an entirely new three-year eco-innovation programme. The new research message coming next year will be very important. Norway is a good country to run business. Norway is doing well, and there are many people with optimism, attitude and good ideas. That doesn't mean we don't have challenges, and we don't have to work every day to make the conditions even better. On the contrary, we work on the framework conditions for industry all the time every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e205	First, I would like to thank the representative for addressing this important topic of strengthening business research. Now it is once that the future will also be created, it will not be adopted. We must therefore facilitate relationships for people who are able to create values. The investment in human capital needs to be strengthened if welfare and prosperity are to be maintained. Norwegian industry and labour are not in a position to compete at prices with foreign industries. Our companies have to compete with top quality and efficient solutions to sell their goods and services. Therefore, it is of great importance that Norwegian enterprises get good and predictable incentives to engage in research and development. In order to achieve this, research efforts need to be stepped up, and then business research efforts need to be facilitated. The Research Council’s user-driven innovation arenas, the Centres for Research-driven Innovation and the TaxFUNN are important instruments to stimulate closer business-academic cooperation. Another important measure has been the gift-enhancing scheme introduced in 2006. This one's been laid off by the government. That seems to me to be in stark contrast to what Heggø says, which commends the government's commitment to cooperation between business and educational institutions. The progress party sees this as a cut in some of the most user-driven research we have. Industry and other business have a number of gift professors going on for years. The feedback from, among others: maritime nutrition is that the gift-enhancing scheme has been essential to provide a total of 20 gift-professors to maritime R & D at universities and colleges throughout the country in recent years. We believe it will be difficult to achieve the government's objective that business will be responsible for two thirds of the research effort in Norway when business research systematically loses in the budget by budget. In fact, the Progress Party was very excited about what action the Council of State would propose to strengthen business research. The councils showed that he was very aware of the importance of business research. The Government aims at Norway becoming world leader in research and development. I must say, unfortunately, the Council of State did not take the ball. He did not use the possibility of introducing any new measures to strengthen industrial research. At least it doesn't cut down on the way to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e220	This is a topic that many people are busy on, not least in Norwegian business. That's why it was a little surprising for me to hear the representative from the Workers' Party describe addressing these issues as a black paint of the situation that is. No one has said that there is something wrong with the measures being taken — on the contrary. But the goal is not achieved, and the question from the interpellant is, what can we do? Then I think it is completely wrong to dismiss it as a black paint of the situation and answer with statements that Norway is a good country to operate in. There is no doubt about that. What is now the matter is that our competitiveness has been significantly weakened in recent years. Of course, it is also linked to the crisis in Europe that the Council of State was in. It just means that, in such a situation, we need to use all the means available to repair that situation — not acutely, but in the long term. This is when research and development are at the bottom. If we are to be the leaders in the world of innovation, to which the Council of State is committed, and which we all want, that is absolutely necessary. Then I don't think it helps to bombard the Great with statistics and percentage calculations about what's done. The important thing for us, and what the interpellant is interested in hearing, is how to think about it in the future. I agree that the Minister of Industry has limited measures in his portfolio. There have been a number of people in the TaxFUNN. There we have suggested several times extensions. I think that meeting it, as the representative Heggø does, with demarcation issues, is seriously underestimating business. This means that you simply believe that they have not intended to deal with this the way they should do it. Instead of highlighting, as the Council of State does, what the public has done and what the appropriations are growing, I would rather look at what we can do for business, and especially for the existing companies – not only on what is to be created again, but on the existing companies that are going on, because there is an incredible amount of innovation, research and development going on. Then it is also natural to go a little beyond the state council's portfolio. He also occasionally likes to go beyond his own portfolio, especially in connection with property taxes – I cannot help but remind him of it. If Norwegian companies kept the 12 billion. kr-14 br. kr, which is the property tax, to invest in its own business – and then I'm talking about those who are making money, and those who, unfortunately, some say, have assets that the owners pay taxes on wealth – would certainly put that money into research and development. I think that would be one of the very good measures. Then I'd like to mention another area. We will have a review of Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway does not support direct research and development, but many enterprises and many applications for it are located in the border country. Here, too, we need to look at whether the business is forward-looking enough, whether it is in line with what we're going to live from in the future. There are considerable resources in this area every year. It should also be the subject of an assessment when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e235	That is an important question for the representative of Mr Warloe. I myself have worked on nutrition research both in industry and at university – that is why this is a question that has been very important to me, and, as many people have been in the past, which is important both for the new business life of the future, which we do not know today, and for the existing companies that need to change. The most important basis for nutrition research is that we have a solid collection of research efforts in our country. Many people like to spread myths about Norwegian research. That is why there may be a few specific facts. Public funding for research in Norway has increased by 28 pst. under this Government. It's a real growth. We have to go back to previous governments to find a year when the real growth of the research effort from the public went down from year to year. When private funded research is involved, Norway is also well ahead in the sense that it is not privately funded but public support for private enterprises. Norway provides more public research support to businesses than our neighbouring countries do, according to GDP. The research council's support for enterprises has been doubled under this government. If we're going to strengthen that nutrition research, maybe it's one of the most important things we can do, building relationships between research institutions and business. There the government has used various tools to create arenas for cooperation. One of the biggest approaches to creating arenas for collaboration between different academic environments and different large and small enterprises is eleven research centres for environmentally friendly energy. I've been working in some of them myself. There is a good, trusting and innovative cooperation between the academic environment and business. We also have a way of cooperating between companies and research institutions that are more regionally anchored. This is done by the fact that regional business clusters – which may be national but largely regional – are linked to regional research institutions. The type of cooperation is often funded through schemes such as Innovation Norway, through the Arena programme and the Norwegian Centres of Expertise. And if I don't think wrong, the Right actually proposed in 2011 to reduce funding for these types of support schemes to finance clusters of industry and research – often regionally anchored. It's a little weird, because it's just this kind of cluster collaboration, which Professor Reve pointed out as one of the most important things we can do, when he presented his great research project, which LO and NHO have been behind, and which focuses on what kind of future business we need. My experience is that regional cooperation through good business clusters and research environment in the region may be the best arena to create the cooperation between business and research that we need to get innovation and relevance in research. Now one can certainly discuss why the big support, which the public gives companies to trigger private research, doesn't turn on when, as I was in the lead, we actually use more public funds to support research in businesses than they do in our neighboring countries. Why is it that companies do not use the corresponding amount of research on their own? Here we have a clear need to discuss whether the large support we give to companies to trigger private research is properly arranged. It's good to discuss whether it should be in other forms, or whether there should be other sizes of some programs. But what I want to point out is that today we have a situation where parts of Norwegian business go very well. This applies, for example: the offshore industry, and for periods it has at least been that the seafood industry has gone well. So what you can ask is, why won't they bet on their own resources to secure their own future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e254	Thanks to the interpellant. This is an important theme. This is an important debate. Knowledge is and becomes central. When the North has more than 70 pst. of Norway’s national wealth, it is evident that the level of knowledge of individuals is crucial for innovation and growth now and in the future. Both to meet demands for new and more climate-friendly solutions and general requirements for innovation, we need a significant focus on knowledge, research and innovation. Innovation is probably the main driver of the development of society. For the last two hundred years, the world has experienced an economic growth without parallel in history. Growth has led to an increase in living standards to a level that few thought was possible just a generation ago. The habit of increasing has been equally rapid, and it would have been intolerable for most people to go back to living standards, for example. in 1979 — without the Internet and mobile phone, to mention two important changes we have experienced in the last 40 years. These developments are the innovative and innovative souls behind them. It may be ambitious, but the Christian People's Party aims at Norway being the world's most innovative and innovative country. Innovation and economic development release resources that can be used for other societal purposes. The development of new and innovative ideas is often useful for more enterprises than only the company that develops them. New and established small businesses are at the heart of this work — without them stopping Norway. Therefore, the Christian People's Party in its alternative government budget for 2012 prioritises more funding for innovation. We increased support for innovation actions through the BIA, the maintenance of Innovation Furniture, research and technology development in the aquaculture industry, value creation measures in agriculture and seed funds for initial investment, to mention something, so that new projects in small and medium-sized enterprises can be funded. The Christian People's Party believes that business must be built from below, and that the main role of politicians is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, business can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods, because we must not forget that it is the future value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. Increased investment in research and innovation are key success criteria for a value-creating business. Although the goal is ahead in time, the Christian People's Party has one main objective for innovation: Norway should be the world's most innovative country, for it is innovation and innovation that drives Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e270	I think it's an important debate the inter-pellant travels – I want to underline it. Over the course that has now been, I think the Right is trying to present us as a little negative to the starting point. I would like to stress that we are not. I would like to thank the Minister of Industry for a very good answer, a comprehensive answer, to an important issue. So I just want to stress that we are more than willing to discuss this in the future, because it's an important debate. We want to strengthen the industry-related research effort in Norway. We also want to contribute to more research into business. That is why we have the focus that the Minister of Industry has set out in an excellent way. So I think it's a little bit sought by the Right in a way to try to show the effort in a different way from what reality actually is. From the end of the 1980s until now, R & D efforts in terms of GDP have remained almost stable – from 1.60 pst. up to 1,80 pst. It was tallest a few years ago. The lowest proportion was in 2004–2005. So I think we have to basically base ourselves on a little bit of fact in this discussion. Today, more than 36 000 annual works are linked to research efforts in Norway — 36 000 annual works. More than 15 000 of these are privately or privately owned. It's fantastic, you do an important job to bring Norwegian business forward. It's a very important effort. The question is: is it one-sided right just to spend more money, as is the case with the Right in this debate? Isn't there a reason to stop a little bit? How do the distributions happen? How can the institutional and higher education sector be addressed to the business community? How can you get the most out of the money that is used collectively? Unfortunately, that debate is a bit absent. I also think the right side of this interpellation is trying to partially conceal this important question. I think this is very central. There is an important debate that I think the Storting should engage in in the future. I believe that much of the research effort in total can be beneficial to the business community. But whether it's the institute and college sector that's going to be part of it, I think it's an exciting discussion, or whether it's stimulation to Norwegian business to research more in their own direction that's the right answer. I am more than willing to take that debate. What I have heard very clearly from the Norwegian business community many times lately is that they want closer dialogue and more presence through the institute sector and the higher education community towards business. I think maybe that's the entrance to this debate that will become very important in the future, just to look at the possibilities of building competences around that arena. So that's the last thing that's crucial. Despite the improvement that the Minister of Industry is now making, I think we need to discuss how we can become even better at commercialising and getting value creation out of the research we're doing. We have a great potential, and all the numbers show that we are initially doing very well in this country when it comes to combining knowledge, research and value creation. That's where we're excellent, that's where we hit the others in the North, that's where we hit the rest of Europe. They can almost not compare with us as to how we manage to deal with that particular situation. I think that is an important and good starting point, but, as I said, we are taking the debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e285	I am pleased with the last article by the head of the nutrition committee. Apart from the fact that it is fun that the government parties are interested in taking the debate, I had really hoped that we might have that debate here today, and not sometime in the future, because we have now made countless attempts to get this debate going. But it's a little funny that when you take the initiative for a debate on what we in the Right think is an important topic, and don't try to attack the government, you're still accused of black-painting. At the same time, the representatives of the government parties say that we have a potential, we have some challenges, but when the Right says the same thing, it's black paint. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get My interpellation, like the interpellation that I had on partly the same theme of the Minister of Research last fall, is strictly almost just a loophole to the government and to state councils who could blackmail some ambitions, but that's not what we hear. I note that the Minister of Industry has also said today that the target is firm. Although the representative Heggø said that the 3 pst. goal is not an end in itself, I have to trust that the Minister of Industry will stick to this goal together with the rest of the government. We have not been given a description of any ideas or strategy for action that could bring us closer to the goal – nor have we been given this today. There has been evidence that the government has established a number of actions, and I am very aware of the important work done in these centres, the Centers for Research-driven Innovation and these NCEs, the Norwegian Centres of Expertise. But it might be a little wrong to give today's government the credit for these centers, because they were established in the years of the Bondevik II government, at least the first of them. The new ones, for energy and the environment, are established under this government – that is correct. I would like to end by saying that I think the representative Holmelid was in the middle of an important point, because he showed that public support for research in the business community is larger in Norway than in our neighbouring country. It may be right, but the results are worse. He asked the question why this doesn't give us any bigger results. That's a very important point. Swedish business life has a research effort of 2.7 pst. of their GDP. In Norway, there is 0.7 – for greater public support. That is an important point that we must take into account in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e296	This is an important debate, and it's a great commitment across all parties. Let me just say that the 3 pst. goal is fixed, but the goal is not important in itself; that's what it creates from business development and knowledge growth, which is the crucial thing. That's right, as the representative of Warloe pointed out, Sweden has a higher percentage of GDP for research and development, but we have a 50 pst. greater GDP than the Swedes, so if I had to choose between Sweden and Norway, I choose Norway. The fact that we have a high percentage of GDP growth — for example. in 2012, an estimated 2,5 pst, as the SSB says, as opposed to the euro zone 0,2 pst. – means that we need to increase our research budgets significantly more in order to keep up with GDP growth. But it's not a problem; it's a great gift that we're the richest country in the world, so we're doing something right. It is also a fact that research efforts have never increased as strongly in Norway as they have done under the red-green government. I was myself a research minister in the years 2000–2001. When we handed over the staf stick in the Research Department to the Right, the research growth was halved year after year compared to the budget we had submitted. So it's not just a question of what you're saying; it's also a question of what you're doing. We will continue to increase research appropriations, but we will also continue to focus very heavily on quality, on getting as much money back as possible, on building these bridges between business and research, on commercialising more of our research results, on building an international network, so that we take advantage of all the research that is also taking place internationally, and on sharpening research, not least where we have a special advantage. There I will refer to several of the red-green speakers who also talk about this not having a neutral business effort, but about putting tools, research money, capital and knowledge into the industries where we have a very special advantage. That's what made us rich, and that's the strategy we're going to use for our country to remain a good country to live in. I take the commitment of Stortinget as an inspiration, both for the Ministry of Industry in terms of ambitions in the field of research and development, and for the Minister of Research in her work. Here, this cross-sectoral cooperation is of great importance, that research institutions and educational institutions need to see more and more what they can do for business, and that business can make even more use of the knowledge developments taking place in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e307	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e321	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e330	On behalf of the case-rapporteur, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, I am delighted to say a few words about the Committee's consideration of the Progress Party's proposal for a statutory, fully-fledged net pay system for seafarers. The Industry Committee and the Stortinget have now agreed for many years that Norwegian shipping – and the maritime cluster – is a very important industry for Norway. There have therefore been no major disagreements about the net pay scheme. From the Right we have had a slightly different approach to this, by putting more emphasis on competence and having had a slightly different model in our alternative budgets – a model that, however, does not differ very much from the one that the government has had. But I stress that we have had a slightly different approach to this in terms of competence, in the same way, one might say, as the government has had a different approach to e.g. the shipping tax system; it was necessary to go to the Supreme Court to clarify that Norwegian shipping companies should have the same conditions as they normally had in Europe. So there have been some differences in how you have looked at it, but it has generally been agreed that the marine environment in Norway deserves both the support of the Committee and the Stortinge. In this case, it is pointed out that this net pay scheme exists in most European countries. That's right, and that's why it's important that we have a competitive system. I would also like to stress that in the case of the Right, we believe that, in the future, in addition to emphasising this with competence for Norwegian seafarers, we must also look at how competitive the Norwegian registers are. We have had suggestions in Stortinget to look at the system of the ship registers. At the same time, we have also proposed looking at the net pay system in combination with this extension. We have not made a concrete proposal on how it should be done, but we have asked the government to assess it. We think it was a good proposal to look further at the development potential of the maritime industry in order to be competitive and to have a good competence both in the registers and in the teams. That is why we have made a different proposal than what is the setting here. I'm actually a little surprised that the government parties choose not to accept a proposal from the Progress Party which in its intention is commendable. Nor do we vote in favour of the proposal to legislate, but we suggest that it be annexed to the protocol, just to show that we believe that the matter is good, that it deserves attention, and that it is a commendable proposal that lies there. And then we'll see what comes next. The last words have probably not been said about the net pay scheme, but I don't think there will be any new rounds of its total existence. Rather, there are rounds of how the practical design should be, and I think first and foremost of a design that makes us competitive in the future, overall. I address the proposal that we are promoting with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e345	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e348	There can never be too much discussion about the maritime policy in this room. We who come from the coast know in particular that maritime nutrition is incredibly important for employment and not least for value creation in this country. We're actually talking about an industry that has a complete environment with a total value creation of nearly 100 billion. NOK, and about 100,000 people work in this industry. It states that the competitiveness of industry is important and that stable framework conditions are essential. So it's tempting to say that when we're out there and getting input from this industry, it's a lot of enthusiasm to get around the policy that's now being pursued, both in terms of the industry's own ability and willingness to bet in the future and that there's a lot of investment in smart minds, new technology, equipment and innovation across the board. The industry is clear that the government parties have a good dialogue and that it is working together. In 2007, the government presented ‘Steam Course’, which is the government’s maritime strategy, which is the very basis for a set of measures to support this industry. It was very important to get the predictability that the industry needed. The competitiveness of the industry is important. That is why I also think it was important that this net pay scheme, which means that shipping companies are refunded the payment of Norwegian taxes, social security contributions and employers' taxes, should be put in place. In 2006 the government proposed an extension of the net pay scheme to all non-competitive services in NOR. In 2007, the security crew on Hurtigruten was also included in this scheme. It helped to create peace and stability around the scheme and has contributed to the recruitment and training of Norwegian crews. I have also received signals in this case that someone wants to look at the ceiling regarding the current net pay system. However, no estimation of dynamic effects related to re-flagging and re-flagging has been made to the NOR register as a result of an increased reimbursement scheme. So this is kind of an early stage to continue that dialogue. With regard to the legalization of the scheme itself, there is no fear of the predictability of the government that disturbs the industry, but perhaps there is more fear of the party's possible government comrades from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party is living well with the arrangements we have put in place, and in dialogue with the industry we can see possible changes to the arrangements relating to budgetary work. However, the government has now entered into the budget for 2012 a continuation of the grant scheme with a transitional budget of 1.6 billion. kr. It is tempting to recall that in the alternative budget of the Progress Party there is also no increase beyond what the government has presented. The right has considerably reduced the Christian People's Party even more, and the left will completely remove this arrangement. So the worst uncertainty for the industry must be to get this bunch into the government offices in 2013 – a conspiracy, where most will weaken or completely remove the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e367	What kind of ‘god’, as the previous representative expressed it from this pulpit, which was to enter the government, we get to have a debate on when that time comes. At least I'm concerned that there are different parties in government – where they come from – whether they're a «thing» or not. The representative Else-May Botten also referred to parties other than the Advance Party, who have proposed to reduce the scheme. Yes, but I would like to remind you that some of the government partners of the Workers' Party, those who are currently in government, also had a different approach to the one that is on the table today from the government in terms of a net pay scheme, or a reimbursement scheme. But solutions are being found, and probably a future government will. The fact is, Norway has no net pay arrangements for seafarers. Norway has a reimbursement scheme for seafarers. This is because we have a ceiling that from 1 July 2008 was set at NOK 198 000 such as a refund for taxes, employers' taxes and social security contributions. So it goes without saying that some, especially officers on board, are above this sum. In other words, for every year that goes without at least doing something about the ceiling, the system currently in place in Norway is weakened – and that is why we are also weakening in competition with those countries that have a fully-fledged net pay system. A fully-fledged net pay scheme amounts to this total – no thank-you. Denmark, among other things, has such a system. That's the part we have to compete with, and when there's no willingness to look at what's to do with thanks, it becomes worrying. The representative indicated that none of the batches had inserted numerical material into the roof. That's right, and that's exactly why we have this proposal for consideration. This proposal was promoted before Christmas, because it is clear that if you can put in place the most important and the best, that is. a net pay-as-you-go system, a proposal must be made in line with that. That is what the proposal is all about, and then it does not begin to propose alternatives until at least the proposal itself has been examined. What amazes me a little bit is the background for the government parties to vote against the proposal. It is strange when you can read the following: ‘As the majority sees it, it will also be possible to organise a legal system, and the majority considers in this context that the predictability of the scheme cannot be linked to whether the scheme is statutory or not.’ Why should we promote laws in this country? Promises can change. The background to promoting a patient rights law was precisely to legislate for it, because then you are sure of what rights lie there. There are completely different procedures and ways of working when you're going to change a law, or if you're just going to change a scheme that you've entered into your budget option. So it's clear there are significant differences. The legal certainty of the scheme is significantly greater. So the representative says that the feedback you get from the district is that it's government policy that's the best. It is quite obvious that the representative Botten and I are in different places and get different messages. Among the seafarers, this system is very important, and also putting in place a statutory net pay scheme, because it gives a future predictability that we do not have today. And it's not that long since the media came to know that there was an internal government debate on whether to cut down on a part of the sum given to the net pay scheme, or the reimbursement scheme, which this actually is. The Progress Party wants predictability. We want this to be put in the high seat in the future as well. Therefore, it is important to put in place a statutory system. This is also important not only for seafarers, but for the entire maritime cluster, for the entire industry, because it provides predictability. We have seen a decrease in the number of people who are in the scheme, precisely because the scheme is currently not good enough. I am referring here to the proposal of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e391	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e394	We often say that shipping companies are the very hub for the maritime cluster in Norway to remain and develop further. The value added is high and it is the largest industry after the petroleum activity. It is therefore important that industry has good framework conditions and that these framework conditions serve the entire Norwegian shipping industry. Although the Christian People's Party has a different model of the reimbursement system, we want the reimbursement system to be in place. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that it has a distortive effect on competition in relation to other industries, such as the United Kingdom. the fishing industry. It's proposed to be used for $1.6 billion. kr to the scheme for 2012 and as in the past the government proposes to limit the individual amounts of aid. The Christian People's Party believes that the total amount of the subsidy can be reduced by introducing an amended model that respects the competence of Norwegian seafarers. It has been argued that the net pay system has led to an increase in employment and that its removal will lead to a race of employed seafarers. In the evaluation of the net pay scheme provided by Econ Pöyry last year, it was found that in the period following the introduction of the net pay scheme, employment growth could have been driven by the boom in the offshore market. In particular, tugs and supply ships have experienced a strong growth in turnover and activity. There is therefore much evidence that growth in employment is due to market conditions rather than to strengthening employment schemes. The fact that the growth of employment in tugboats and supply ships only occurred one to two years after the introduction of the net pay scheme is another indication. Employment growth is also not unique to Norway, but about the same as in comparable European countries. On average, employment growth in comparable European countries was 17 pst. during the period 2001-2007. Growth in Norway was in the same period of 19 p.m. The report also states that after the introduction of the net pay scheme in 2002–03, one cannot trace a particularly strong growth in employment. The report therefore concludes that the growth of Norwegian employment needs to be explained with market conditions rather than with changes in the employment schemes. In view of this, the Christian People's Party does not believe that the legalisation of a net pay scheme is the best solution to increase employment in the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Committee's recommendation that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e409	The centre party is committed to facilitating investment in the maritime industry. This is an important industry in our country, and it is a great potential for further development, not least with the great optimism we now see in the north. Norway is one of the world’s largest shipping nations, and Norwegian shipping companies are now controlling the world’s fifth largest fleet in number of ships. Norway has a complete maritime environment, with a total value creation of nearly 100 billion. NOK and approximately 100,000 employees. The Centre Party and the Red-Green Government are committed to pursuing a comprehensive maritime policy to secure and create jobs in Norway. In 2007, the government’s maritime strategy, ‘Should course’, was presented. The government has invested in maritime industry through concrete measures, including the net pay system for seafarers. In this context, I would like to mention that in this government's first government budget, the net pay scheme was extended to cover all competitive speeds in NOR, and in the 2007 state budget, Hurtigruten was also included in the scheme. The net pay scheme is continued in the government budget for 2012 and the government has actively contributed to the predictability of the maritime industry through budgetary measures. The policy of the red-green government involves continuity and stability in the allocation of the net pay scheme. Since the government change in 2005, the net pay scheme has increased significantly. From the top of 1 billion. kr in 2005 and includes approximately 9000 seafarers now constitute the scheme EUR 1,5 billion. kr and 11000 seafarers. That's an increase of 50 pst. in grant appropriations and in excess of 22 pst. increase in employment. With this government, the net pay scheme, as a single measure, has been a predictable scheme without legislation, and it contributes to providing the maritime industries with forward-looking conditions for seafarers, while at the same time facilitating recruitment to the profession. The centre party is engaged in predictable and forward-looking conditions for seafarers, and we are committed to facilitating further investment in the maritime industry. The net pay scheme is an important measure in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e428	In the maritime sector, Norway has world-leading competence and international competitiveness. The government is therefore working purposefully to take care of and further develop the maritime industry. Since the government of Stoltenberg came to power in 2005, we have helped to further develop the subsidy schemes for maritime employment. In 2006 and 2007, we introduced net wages and salaries for all ships engaged in competitive operations in NOR, including Hurtigruten. In addition, we have taken an even greater and more holistic approach to the development of the maritime sector. In 2007, we launched a comprehensive maritime strategy, called ‘Steam Course’, focusing on growth and environmentally friendly development in the maritime industries during the vision of Norway as a world-leading maritime nation. A stable and sustainable subsidy scheme for the employment of seafarers, in line with other European countries, is a pillar of the strategy. Together with the introduction of a new European-style shipping tax scheme, this establishes predictable and competitive framework conditions for seafarers and shipping companies in Norway. In addition, we increased attention and developed a more concrete focus on maritime research, innovation and competences. The red-green government is responsible for the continuity and stability of the appropriations for the net pay scheme. Since we came to power in 2005, the net pay scheme has increased significantly. From the top of 1 billion. kr in 2005 and includes approximately 9000 seafarers now constitute the scheme EUR 1,5 billion. kr and 11000 seafarers. That's an increase of 50 pst. in grant appropriations and in excess of 22 pst. increase in employment. Under the governance of the central parties, a number of changes were proposed to help weaken the competitiveness of the net pay scheme. In 2001, the reimbursement rate was reduced from 20 to 12 p.m., while in 2003 it was proposed – without support from the Stortinget – to wind up the net pay system for foreign ferries. So this was under the Bondevik government. In 2003, the reimbursement rate was further reduced to 9,3 pst. for ships in petroleum activities. I note that the opposition continues to crack in its proposals for devices and appropriations for the net pay scheme. The left has proposed to wind up the whole scheme in recent years. The Christian People's Party and the Right want to reduce the regime to include only certified seafarers, with a maximum of grants per seafarer. In order to further complicate this, they continue to disagree on the level at which this maximum is to be applied. The proposals of the representatives include two aspects: the legalisation of the net pay scheme and the introduction of a ‘full net pay scheme’ and the removal of so-called ‘serious restrictions’ on the scheme. In the case of the former, it's my opinion that a law-enforcement will not represent greater stability. No law is more stable than the majority of Stortinget wants. Although the net pay scheme was statutory, legislative changes could equally be fully adopted in relation to proposals for government budgets. Thus, the system is subject to the same processes as we have today, with a system set out in the regulation. It is exactly the same majority that pass laws in Norway, which adopt budgets in Norway. With regard to the alleged ‘serious’ constraints, I would point out that different European countries have different arrangements. The Norwegian net pay scheme is at least as comprehensive as the reimbursement schemes in e.g. Germany and the Netherlands. The Government provides stability but considers routinely the need for any improvements or adjustments to the net pay mechanism in the ordinary budgetary processes. Unlike the opposition parties, the government stands for stable and competitive framework conditions. We are the guarantor of continued support for the Norwegian maritime industry and the Norwegian seafarer's stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e451	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e455	First of all, I want to thank the Council of State for the article, even though I disagree with a lot of it. The Council of State is trying to create the impression that this is a system that is going very smoothly, and that – under this government – has had a steady increase. There has been a steady increase over time, but in recent years we have unfortunately seen a decrease in the number of seafarers included in the scheme – see. The government's own draft budget, which showed a decline. In addition, when he began as Minister of Industry, the Council of State began to travel both here and there, doing a phenomenal job. The councils and others warned that the great flag was to be reached, as was the case with both Mr. Fredriksen and others. So it's going to be an abrupt stop. My question to the Council of State is this: what will the Council of State actually do to ensure that we do not have a further decline in the number of seafarers within the scheme, so that we can maintain the level of employment we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e466	These are a little bit different questions. Whether shipping companies choose to flag home or not does not necessarily have to influence the number of seafarers that Norway has. But we believe that it is an independent goal to have as many boats as possible under the Norwegian flag, among others. because it gives us greater weight internationally, in international organizations. Being one of the largest maritime nations means that we have a greater impact on everything from environmental rules to competition rules in international discussions. So it's about keeping a high number of seafarers, that's an important part of our cluster. We know that both the shipping companies, the shipyards and the supplier industry tell us that the competence of our seafarers, from the use of the boats to the use of equipment, contributes to technology development in these Norwegian companies as well. Here I see the opposition cracking. Here, the Progress Party has the most to pick up from a collaboration with the Red-Greens. We're still going to bet on that in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e473	When you hear the position representatives, you can get the impression that the net pay system is something that is cut in marble – it was once adopted by the red-greens and must never change. It's not like that. What we know is that all those who feed are influenced by changed framework factors and that the world is changing around us. It's not that for the Right this is completely uninteresting. Nor is it the case that the Right is too unpredictable for business, which is completely wrong with the Council of State. The right has put forward proposals on the framework conditions for seafarers engaged in international voyages. An important part of it is how the international ship registers work. In 2010 we received a letter from the Council of State saying that the government of Stoltenberg too changed things, and that they were working to change the system. My question is, as far as the net pay scheme is concerned, what do you now do to arrange it further, and what about the operating range limitations in NIS, as was mentioned in the same case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e480	The government adds up to a stable framework around the maritime industry. We believe that we have competitive conditions now, both for shipping companies and to maintain the number of Norwegian seafarers on board the boats. We record that the opposition is very divided here, with especially the Right that drives cuttings, among other things. in support schemes for seafarers. We have looked at the limitations of the area of use, but it is very difficult to make arrangements that meet all the objectives we have; to ensure good conditions of competition, to secure seafarers and to ensure a good and efficient industry. So, as of today, there are no plans to amend this legislation. And as the representative is certainly aware, long-term predictability is one of the key prerequisites for a competitive business, so that you know what framework conditions you have to invest in. It is also the government's aim in the maritime field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e487	I'll go a little further in that track that was in my previous line exchange with the Council of State. The proposals of the Progress Party, which we have to deal with here today, and which unfortunately are downcast, are part of several issues relating to the framework conditions for the shipping industry in general and the maritime cluster, the maritime cluster, where very many depend on each other. In the context of the revised 2011 budget, the government wrote that the number of seafarers employed under this scheme was falling. As a result, the appropriations were reduced. The 2012 state budget also states that there is a further decline in the number of seafarers employed, and therefore a further decrease in appropriations is being made. I asked the Council of State instead: what will the government do to ensure that there is a rise in this matter, to ensure that the competence remains there, that we have Norwegian seafarers there, etc.? That is precisely when the framework conditions are important. Will the Council of State propose anything in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e498	Making sure that we maintain a significant proportion of Norwegian seafarers, there are many factors that affect us. Of course, the framework conditions for the whole industry are one of them, and ensuring that we have Norwegian shipping companies that also recruit Norwegian seafarers is an important part of it. The net pay scheme also contributes to the more profitable recruitment of these seafarers. But then, of course, it's a basic premise that we are able to train new generations of seafarers, that maritime education is perceived as attractive. We've had a full review of maritime education to see how this system can be made even better. In the yard package, which we presented in the spring of 2010, it was precisely that of building skills, of ensuring innovation across the sector, and of having maritime clusters in the regions that contribute to the attention of both industry and recruitment, important factors. So we get to keep talking the industry up and give an offer to young people who want to bet in the maritime sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e510	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e515	There has been an interesting debate, which shows that Norwegian shipping has an enormous impact on employment. In some parts of the country, it is much more important than in others. The western part of the country is distinguished as having the most employed both directly in the industry, among suppliers such as shipyards and among service providers. A 2011 report by the Haugaland and Sunnhordland maritime industry shows that total turnover in the maritime industry in the region was 35,12 billion. kr. This is a formidable amount. I would definitely recommend to all those who are concerned about and interested in shipping and the ringing effects it has on other industries, to read the report. Parties to the Government write in their comments: ‘This government has invested in maritime nutrition through concrete measures.’ They indicate that the industry is provided with a predictable framework through the continuation of the net pay scheme in the State budget for 2012. The continuation adopted results in a significant deterioration in competitiveness against the shipping of other countries. In the context of the government’s proposals for the 2012 government budget, the head of the Maritime Forum stated that this year also ‘seafarers’ scheme is not regulated in terms of overall wage development or price and inflation’. And on the other hand, ‘The static ceiling introduced by the government in 2008 is fixed. This means, in effect, that the Norwegian scheme weakens its competitiveness every year and that the costs of investing in Norwegian competence are now about 25 per cent higher than other European net pay schemes.» This shows that the government's policy does not concern Norwegian shipping. But I agree that, after all, it is better than the policy of some parties that want to nullify the system – or the parties that have a policy in the area where they only want the net pay system to apply to the officer. If we look at developments in the Haugaland/Sunnhordland region regarding the number of Norwegian seafarers and the number of foreign seafarers on Norwegian ships in the period 1999–2011, the number of Norwegian employees has doubled, while the number of non-residents has actually tripled. If this continues, we are at risk of losing many jobs at sea. This can also have a significant negative impact on suppliers of the marine industry in the long term. A poll conducted by the Maritime Forum among shipping companies showed that all shipping companies believe that the continuation and strengthening of the reimbursement system for seafarers is one of the most important issues for industry. The Progress Party considers that it is of great importance that Norwegian shipping is given predictability and the same framework conditions as those with which they compete. Therefore, it is of great importance that we get a statutory, full-fledged net pay system for seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e543	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e557	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e566	The Economic and Social Committee has examined the proposal to repeal the ground law ban, promoted by the Progress Party. This proposal has become much more topical than one could believe, as the government has also provided this kind of signals in the agricultural notification. When you look at the statistics, there are an incredible number of agricultural properties that are built with residential buildings. The agricultural area of up to half of the properties is actually rented out. We're talking about 154,000 properties. There is also a large share that does not operate. It is clear that there is a significant structural problem below this. The government has probably also seen this, as it is now signaling, at least in the agricultural notice, that something has been done about this. But I think it is important that this is seen in the context of other measures to change the structures of agriculture, not just the ban on sharing. We're talking about housing, we're talking about price regulation. This is also about getting more appropriate user sizes. In the agricultural notification, the government is just pointing to increasing output. It's clear that more appropriate usage sizes will be absolutely crucial, and also selling areas that do not provide the basis for their own operation, when we know that 48 pst. of all these properties are land that has been disused. And we know -- and that's not something you know by being in this room -- when you talk to those who run this earth, who say that if this was my land, if I could get it, that it would be a completely different kind of agronomy, you would drive it in a different way. That's all: you maintain your own house – to take that analogy – in a better and different way than what you do with a house you just rent. So this with the ban on sharing is probably what's been the most difficult, and it's been for a long time. A local peasant team leader in my own county, Vestfold, wrote in Bondebladet, I think it was, a year ago, that it should have been a sharing order rather than a ban. It says a little bit about how you perceive this in the industry. Then I have to say that I am happy that the government is carefully providing these signals in the agricultural message, but I must also say that it should have been done a long time ago. It has not been missing on occasions: several times it has been proposed from the opposition — from the Right, from the Advance Party, from more or less an overall opposition. This is a development that comes, and it is important for Norwegian agriculture. It is also important for the objectives set out in the Agriculture Communication on increased self-sufficiency and production. It's at the bottom where you have to have areas that are more efficient to use. It is therefore not surprising to note that the red-greens also agree this time that this can be annexed to the Protocol. Neither for its part nor for the other lots votes to lift the prohibition. The reason for this is, as I have pointed out, that this must be seen in the context of more flexibility in other legislation. Even though the ban is a lot of embellishment, we might see from a review that maybe you shouldn't remove it completely, maybe there will be some cases where it might be relevant to have it. But there can only be a review of this, and I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will take it. He has said that he will take it, and there is no reason why we should wait for it at all, as we have done with other things. Get started! It will be very good for Norwegian agriculture. Of course, I'm also taking up the suggestions – if there were any, and that was it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e586	There are no proposals from the representative's party, but he has defended the position, and we are going to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e589	Thanks to the rapporteur for what I want to say was a little nuanced presentation, a good explanation of the matter and the significance of this. As the rapporteur says, the report on agricultural and food policy is now under consideration in the Committee, which sets out to change the practice of sharing agricultural property, making it easier to maintain and share from liberal land and to sell additional land to potential neighbours. We in the Labour Party and the entire government fraction therefore propose that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes, so that we get these issues discussed, as the rapporteur also says, to a greater extent when dealing with the notification. I have sympathy for the opposition's remark where they write that «it is important that the changes both meet the need for more appropriate use sizes and allow the sale of land from properties which, for the owner, do not provide a basis for their own operation, while increasing the attractiveness of the property as residential property». I think this is a very good comment, but as I said, we want to come back to this when we are going to deal with the message. I have noticed that the opposition is also excited about the grips the government is now taking on the message. I must say, it's nice to hear that. But I believe that we should not forget the purpose of the ground law ban, which is to ensure the resource base for each use. In my view, there must also be a balance between the assessments made, which both preserve the property structure and the use structure – yes, the resource base itself – and not least, especially in pig-grown areas, ensure the purpose of living. The latter may in very many cases be essential for success in many areas of the country. But this must not be at the expense of – as we are to have – active agriculture across the country. It means that there is a need to invest in different types and sizes of use. Cultivated soils must produce food.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e603	The Progress Party has a proposal on the matter, and then I am promoting it, and it is done. Never before have there been so few agricultural properties as now. Never before have there been so few self-employed workers in food production as now. Never before has there been so many decaves on which food is produced, as it is now. And never before have there been so many uninhabited farm properties, while there are nearly 500,000 people in Norway who can expect to take over a farm, large or small. My conclusion and that of the Progress Party is that in Norway, regardless of current governments, we have had a misguided, old-fashioned agricultural policy, guided by ideas from countries other than those we might like to compare with in recent times. Up in all this misery, or at least we're going to say sad evolution, work competent, creative farmers maybe twice as much as usual, to a income that is half of what an average Norwegian income is on. With a code that governs the Norwegian farmer almost from the smallest decision to the big ones, this gives little room to the creative, innovative farmer – he or she who has ideas about how the farm and its possibilities of use can provide a decent income, while giving room for housing and quality of life. I think that's what it's all about if we're going to make Norwegian agriculture survive and at the same time make the districts flourish. Many countries, and most comparable countries, have done so, such as our neighbouring countries Sweden, Finland and Denmark. I have recently been on a study trip to these countries to learn and hear about their forestry and agricultural policies and how it works. In these three countries, with slightly different assumptions, agriculture works well, and the future is there. It's investing. Of course, this is somewhat different from country to country, but young people are also willing to take over. Back to Norway. We need to do a lot of work to ensure that Norwegian agriculture survives and develops positively in the future. One of many things that have to and can be done is to lift the ban on division in the law of the land. It must be up to the individual owner of an agricultural property what she or he wants to do with it. If there is a seller and a buyer, and they agree on an agreement, the Progress Party believes that this is of course for the best of all. The earth is sold to a new user, who will thus be able to strengthen his property and his production capacity, thereby enabling a better financial opportunity to continue as a self-employed person in food production. The law of the day dates from 12 May 1995. It's almost 17 years old. In these 17 years, we've only seen negative numbers for agriculture. In addition to what I said in my introduction to agricultural development, there are also many farms that have a deficit – on average, this is approximately. 89,000 kroner per year. Another thing, among many more, is the age of the farmers. It is relatively high, and the number of girls taking over is the opposite – rather low. This should mean that something has to be done. The Party notes, however, that the proposal is not rejected but that it is annexed to the Protocol. It's a little victory. But I look with concern at the future of Norwegian agriculture when such a simple thing as removing a ban on sharing cannot get a majority in this room. That it will come in a while, I'm sure. We just hope that there are some attractive farms left that can take advantage of this, and not least that there are some farmers who will buy again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e620	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e623	In Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012, on agricultural policy, which is now under consideration in the United Kingdom, calls on the government to change practices in the sharing of agricultural property, so as to facilitate the maintenance and sharing of liberal land and the sale of additional land. The centre party therefore supports the majority's position in the case that we are dealing with today and will not contribute to a long debate. I would just like to make a few brief comments on what is mentioned in the agricultural notification submitted in relation to the sharing of agricultural property. The government believes that it should be made easier than today to retain or share from liberal plots or dwellings that are not on the tune. Such redeployment shall be in line with soil protection considerations and with the objectives of agricultural and food policy. Where social benefits are high enough, for example: where cultivated land goes as additional land for use in operation, the law should facilitate that the owner should have the right to share it for such purposes. This requires concrete balances that are adapted to local circumstances, and here we need to pay attention to the active farmer. Therefore, it is important that the sharing provision continues to provide an area of action for municipalities based on specific challenges in the area, such as: depending on whether the property is located in an area with housing problems or whether it is situated in a more urbanised area. In practice, this presupposes a concrete balance both of the property being decomposed and of the residual property. The government announces that the Ministry will work on solutions to facilitate redundancy, while at the same time taking into account the challenges of agricultural property sharing. The divisional provisions of the Land Act cannot be seen in isolation; they are closely related to the local authority's ability to regulate land use under the Planning and Building Act. The new Landfill Communication on Agriculture and Food Policy will be widely discussed here in Stortinget. I therefore look forward to an overall debate on the clear ambitions of the red-green government in this important area in the future. Here, too, the clear political lines of agricultural policy will be made clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e636	Since it has been pointed out both in letters from the Council of State and in the comments on the matter that this is a topic that will be discussed in more detail and discussed further in the context of the processing of the agricultural notification, I should like to be brief. We in the Christian People's Party are not as hybrid in this matter as other representatives in this Chamber. We see that the ban on sharing makes it possible to ensure that agricultural property is not impaired by de-allocation and that this helps to avoid a reduction of the property’s future nutrient base and the possibility of new industrial development on the farm. The main reason why the Christian People's Party wants to take a closer look at the sharing ban in Section 12 of the Soil Act is the much-discussed land problem. Land rents result in less predictability for the farmers who run the land, as well as weaker incentives for the farmer to maintain the land. Like the other opposition parties, we have noticed the liberalisation of the government as shown in the agricultural communication. We see this as a step in the right direction – positive – and as a signal that the government now understands that a change in the Soil Act § 12 can be beneficial to facilitate more appropriate usage sizes, and that it allows the sale of land from properties that the owner does not provide the basis for his own operation. In addition, liberalisation will increase the attractiveness of agricultural properties as residential property. As this matter will become part of the discussion of the agricultural notification, which is currently under consideration in the Committee, the Christian People's Party proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e649	We've discussed the ground law ban several times in Stortinget in recent years. Some of the last Lars Sponheim did as Minister of Agriculture, was just proposing to lift the ban on division in the law of the land, because he and the previous government realized that there was a completely unnecessary regulation of the farmer's income possibilities and the freedom to dispose of his own land. Unfortunately, the new government withdrew this proposal. After that time, there have been regular calls for proposals similar to those of the Progress Party which we are discussing today, including those on the agenda. The Left has promoted its own representative proposal on this matter twice, and we have repeated the proposal when dealing with agricultural settlements over the last few years. Now a lot has already been said, and we have, as mentioned, had this debate many times, so I'm going to pay attention to a few brief remarks: The buildings don't just need people who live on their properties, they need someone who lives on their properties and brings with them other exciting thoughts and industries as well. If we're to succeed in this, we need a variety of accessible properties that people want to live off and for in a new way. That's what this is all about. It is precisely this that is the advantage of the building: there is room, there are opportunities to create attractive properties where we can live, live and do business at a price that most people can afford. The purpose of the law on soil should, of course, be to facilitate conditions so that the land is used in the best possible way for society and for the owner of the land. Today's ban on sharing is a strong signal to Norwegian citizens that the areas of the village are for farmers who think traditionally. If you cancel this, you send strong value signals that we want different people who want to live in a different way. As the Left sees it, that's what's the value behind our approach to the issue that we're now discussing. Technically, it's not that big a change. Municipalities will continue to have the power to regulate a lot through planning legislation. But it's a basic set of values that is involved in lifting today's ban on sharing. So to the conclusion: I record that all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, point out that there is evidence of liberalisation of practices in this area and that this is one of the elements of the forthcoming treatment of the agricultural notification. This is excellent in itself, although there is never so little paradox given that the government — especially during the past of the Minister of Agriculture — has in the past been committed to tightening up the practice of the ban on sharing. However, the left is crystal clear that the prohibition of sharing should be lifted, regardless of what the government has notified that it may do. For the Left, the ban on sharing is lifted on more than agricultural policy. It's about which towns we're going to have in the future, and which people we're going to stimulate to settle in these places. The current ground law ban is directly exclusive. The left is therefore voting in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e670	The ground law ban was adopted in 1955 and tightened up in 1965. The reason for the prohibition was that the resource base for agricultural property was weakened by the time-sharing, in particular in connection with generational shifts. It is also a divisional provision in the Planning and Building Act. The main purpose of this is to ensure planning and a clean distribution of property. To produce enough, safe and varied food of good quality is the most important task that agriculture solves for society. With the abundance of food we've had here in the country in recent decades -- self-produced and imported food -- many of us have taken it for granted that we don't have to worry about this situation changing. However, both the world’s population and Norway’s population are increasing. For Norway, the Central Statistical Office estimates that by 2030 there will be 20 pst. several inhabitants. At the same time, climate changes are taking place. To meet these needs, Norwegian food production needs to increase. Distribution and redistribution to non-agricultural activities must be seen in that perspective. The sharing provision contributes to the pooling of resources. This results in a more efficient use of resources for food and work production than if the units are further split up into several owner-hands. In my view, it is important to ensure that the sharing provision is appropriate at all times in line with the objectives of agricultural policy. I have already implemented certain changes in practice to achieve this. Embellishment of demarcation practices can contribute to greater harmonisation between ownership and use structures and can thus reduce disadvantages by having to run land on a rental basis. Distribution of housing by agricultural property can contribute to a wider supply of residential real estate and smaller farm use for sale. This is positive for the settlement. I raised these questions in 2010 in a separate letter to the municipalities. In this letter I have, among other things: the importance of sharing issues by avoiding the use of land on a rental basis. In cases where the seller wants to keep buildings and tuna, I also said that it is important that conditions be laid down that both land, forest and land plots are sold as additional land to nearby units of use in operation. However, if it can help to strengthen the settlement, the municipality should also consider allowing the seller to maintain a slightly larger area than is normal for a regular dwelling. During the spring session, the size will deal with the agricultural and food notification. It would therefore be unfortunate if, today, I should be pushing ahead with the final solution to the proposals relating to the sharing provision. Further progress is conditional on the forthcoming review of agricultural and food policy in a comprehensive perspective. I will therefore in the following sketch the lines drawn up in the message, without drawing any final conclusions. Major changes were made to property and housing legislation in 2009 which led to a clearer and simpler legal framework. Farm and food notification is largely based on the fact that the legal instruments are up-to-date in relation to current needs. However, the divisional provision in the law on soil has not been amended from 1995 until now, and this provision continues to constitute in some respects a barrier to unlocking the potential for more active use of the property. As mentioned above, the Ministry has provided the municipalities with guidance on how the divisional provision is to be practised. Nevertheless, there is a need for further action, making it easier to dissociate. A simpler sharing access could help fresh forces escape on the owner’s side. This opens up new opportunities for the long-term use of the property and may be positive for housing and community. The Communication therefore provides for a detailed review of the need for a change of the current divisional provision in the soil law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e697	It is in this case about lifting the ban on sharing in the soil law that you are talking about weakening agricultural properties by lifting the ban on sharing. I rather think of it as strengthening agricultural properties by someone selling some land to another farm. The earth is there, it's driven, it's going to be driven more rationally, and you're going to get more benefit from that earth. Is it not a more correct idea to say that instead of weakening agriculture by repealing this law, you are strengthening agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e702	I agree with Mr Bredvold's point. The intention of the changes proposed in the agricultural and food notification is to strengthen both agriculture, food production and – not least – ownership. An opportunity to facilitate the dissociation of land should, as we continue to work on this matter, contribute to ensuring both active food production and the possibility of living and living in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e707	The representative Haugen said in his post that I was “enthusiastic” for what came in the agricultural message about this. It was taking in. I've written that I was positive to it. Now I hear the Council of State says in its statement that he will not say anything concrete about how he intends to do this in practice, because the communication is being discussed in the committee. My question is: does the Council of State expect the majority of the committee to give signals on how this will be done in the future – after which he will deal with it – or will he himself review it after the notification has been adopted as it stands? What are his expectations for the committee in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e714	I find it difficult for me to put expectations into the committee's work. I believe that the Committee must deal with this in the light of the conditions set out in the Communication and the political positions of the various representatives in the Committee. But I am busy doing what we have written and signaled in the agricultural and food message. I'm concerned with making it easier to dissociate agricultural property. I'm busy that way reducing the rental area. I am concerned that it will help to let new forces in. I am concerned that it will help us to have the opportunity to get plots around the countryside that may be a little larger than a common living space, and that will allow you to enrich the village's life with more people living there. So the intention of that work is very clear. We will carry out a normal consultation round, a normal working process, on it, and of course we will take with us the signals that the Committee and the Stortinge will provide in connection with the processing of the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e719	Governments are very concerned about active agriculture across the country. Then my question is: won't this go a little at the expense of softening up a ban on sharing, perhaps removing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e724	No, I don't think there's any contradiction here. If I understand the representative right, he believes that there may be a contradiction between the proposal and having an active agriculture throughout the country. By changing the sharing provisions, we want to make it possible for farmers, producers, to acquire a property that they rent today, to make it easier to take over for owning, and thus to create ownership of their own property, which is important for Norwegian agriculture. By implementing the proposal to make it easier to dissociate, we will also create opportunities throughout the country for settlement, which will strengthen the village's life. So I see no contrast between active agriculture across the country and simplifying, modernising, sharing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e729	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e734	The prohibition of division is based on the general prohibition contained in Article 12 of the Law on Soil, which is to be assessed on the basis of point one, the social interests, which are to be given high weight, and point two, whether division is sound in terms of return. The purpose is and was to secure and pool the resources. In its ideology, it was structuralization. The question is: Is it appropriate today? The aim of the proposal is then, as was said, to create more robust and resource-intensive units by changing this. It was historical experience that led to our getting the law. In the past, there was no law, which gave rise to a division leading to socio-economic losses. The question now is whether a proposal that really goes back to the historical line that we should not have any law is appropriate to the purpose of what the Progress Party says. The answer is seaworthy no. We have historical and international experience that suggests that an unregulated market does not function as it is said here. From the Center Party, ownership and ownership are closely linked, because if you don't have obligations, it's the capitalists, whether they're Norwegian or Chinese, who's going to take over. For us in the Center Party there is a clear need to change the content of the Soil Law § 12. Agricultural properties are both housing and industry or, in many cases, only residence, so we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We have to think of an agricultural property both as a dwelling and as a dwelling and industry. The challenge today is to ensure a law that makes it possible to create more liberal sites that provide attractive housing for a number of young people who are interested in it, while at the same time facilitating better business practice through additional land such as land, forest and land, because getting property that corresponds to conditions of use makes better management of these areas possible. What is then central is the arronistic considerations, having cadastral parcels in more geographically aggregated units. But I would warn against the state power becoming too active to ensure a politically governed property policy, because here it is about private law matters and changing times. The times change, the ownership conditions last for a long time, and therefore a detention must be of an active nature. But it is important to think about the premises for the debate, so that we can achieve these two objectives: ensuring more attractive housing units while carefully facilitating more active activity for agricultural property.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e749	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e763	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e777	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e791	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e797	The size goes to voting over today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e807	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a statutory, fully-fledged net pay scheme for seafarers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e835	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right Party and the Christian Party, which reads: ‘Document 8:9 S [[2011-2012]] The President assumes that the Progress Party supports the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e857	During the debate, Mr Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to repeal the Land Law § 12 concerning the prohibition of the sharing of agricultural property.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e870	The left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-31.ana.ud2406e1041	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
