ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e49	Representatives of Anders B. Werp, Hilde Magnusson, Torfinn Opheim, Bendiks H. Arnesen, Eva Kristin Hansen, and Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternates, for East Agder County Line Vennesland and for Uppland County Espen Granberg Johnsen, have taken their seats. From the Workers' Group there is an application for welfare leave from the representative of Laila Gustavsen from 28 February to 1 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Børre Hansen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e96	Kjell Børre Hansen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e104	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e107	On behalf of Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I will make a proposal to establish an independent supervisory function for kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e112	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e115	I am pleased to promote a representative proposal from the representatives of Trine Skei Grande and myself on a binding escalation plan for new recruitment positions in the R & D system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e120	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e136	This interpellation is basically about the need for knowledge increasing. Where jobs previously required — and employers were satisfied with — master-level education, more and more companies today demand labour with doctoral education. It is this phenomenon that, among other things, is referred to in a headline in Today’s Business Life February 15th this year under the title ‘Doctor’s disease in industry’. The survey here and in other media came after a new report on the need for increased doctoral production, apparently prepared by the University and Higher Education Council and the Ministry of Knowledge in common, was published a few weeks ago. I say'surely' quite deliberately, for this information I only have from newspaper reading. Here at Stortinget, there is no direct information from the department, except what we find in the government budgets every year, and a research report every four years. When we look at the field of research, there is no matter beyond this to the Committee and to the Stortinget. So if we're going to have research policy debates here in the United Kingdom in addition to one every four years, it's not much help to get out of government. It is on the side of today's interpellation, perhaps, but some should consider whether such an important and dynamic field as the field of research is served by this parliamentary inaction. My interpellation was written before Christmas last year, and when it's being addressed, it might be an excellent opportunity for the Council of State to present the report, which thus shows an increased need for training for people with doctoral qualifications, as a result of increased demand from both business and academia. I see that the Council of State in the media says that the report is ‘a waker’ and that ‘we can’t relax’. I don't know if anyone has relaxed, but the fact is that the last three years' government budgets have not given a single new scholarship or postdoc position to the university and higher education sectors. Therefore, in its alternative budgets, the right has earmarked money for about the last three years. 100 new posts each year. Therefore, the report, which now shows the growing need for such recruitment and qualification positions, does not come as a surprise to us. But we are surprised that the Council of State refers to it as a waker. The current research report mentions the growing need several times. In the Soria Moria Declaration, government parties write: «Increased research efforts require more researchers. In order to ensure recruitment, it is necessary to increase the number of scholarships compared to the current level. In addition, more research positions need to be created for those who have completed their doctorate.’ Of course, I am aware that the number of posts has increased since this was written in 2005. But nothing has happened, as I know, that has changed the underlying trend. Demand and capacity needs have increased steadily over a long period of time. It is therefore strange that since the current research report was dealt with here in the Stortinget in 2009, the government has had a ‘stopping’ in this area. I would like to hear the Council of State's explanation for this. I cannot find anything in the research report that indicates zero growth in this area in the years that were to follow. But now the Council of State says, according to Today's Business: «We must now review our strategy». If today's strategy is a stopover, then I fully agree. But that's the government's current strategy, at best it's a little under-communicated and hardly anchored here in the Stortinget. So in this area too, I look forward to the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e152	The strong escalation of scholarship positions in the 2000s has been a major success. In 2011, more doctors were graduated than ever, with 1,327 successful doctoral dissertations. This is an increase of 12 pst. from 2010. No previous year has seen more doctoral degrees than in 2011, and twice as many as 10 years ago. It is therefore a truth with modifications that the growth has stopped. An artificially high peak in 2008 can help create that impression. 2008 was the last year that it was possible to complete the old doctoral degrees before the Ph.D. degree was introduced. Extras got in the harness to complete this year. If we correct for this effect, there is a basis for saying that the growth in doctoral degrees has been continuous in the last ten years. As you know, it takes several years for a person to be added to a position of scholarship until he completes his doctorate. The increase in doctoral degrees passed in recent years is therefore largely a result of the escalation in the number of scholarship positions up to and including 2009, and there is reason to believe that the full potential for new doctoral degrees in the escalation has not yet been removed. It is true, as the representative of Warloe points out, that the red-green government did not award new earmarked recruitment positions in the state budgets for 2010, 2011 and 2012. We've chosen other priorities, and there are several reasons. Accepting as many new scholarship positions as the sector did in the 2000s represented an improper challenge for institutions, both for the capacity and quality of doctoral education. The major universities also stated that even more scholarship positions were not at the top of their priority list. The Research Communication Climate for Research, promoted by the government in spring 2009, set ambitious targets to increase the flow of doctoral education. The evaluation of Norwegian research training from 2002 indicated that there was too much non-response and too long implementation time. Following the evaluation, institutions have worked systematically to improve the follow-up of doctoral candidates. In addition, the introduction of the PhD degree has contributed to better organised and structured doctoral training. So we are now seeing positive results in terms of the objective that we set out in the research report. Precautionary estimates indicate that only 5 pst. Several doctoral students in each coal complete doctoral education, we will be able to receive more than 1 000 doctoral degrees over a ten-year period. Therefore, by improving the quality and effectiveness of doctoral education, it is possible to increase the number of doctoral degrees without adding new scholarship positions. The requirement for a minimum of 15 scholarship holders for new full-time doctoral programmes, introduced in the spring of 2011, needs to be seen in this light. Developments are also in line with objectives of more efficient use of resources. The pressure has been more on the results side in recent years – what we get out of doctoral education, rather than what we put in. In this context, it should also be mentioned that new research efforts through the Research Council are an important source of research recruitment. Research-funded projects will employ a number of people both in scholarship positions and in postdoc positions at our universities and colleges. The red-green government's commitment to research into the Research Council's budget is therefore indirectly contributing to an investment in recruitment positions. From 2006 to 2010, the number of scholarship holders funded by the Research Council increased from 1,300 to 1,800. I started by saying that the escalation has been a great success. I will continue to tell you about yet another success, albeit on a somewhat smaller scale: in 2008, we introduced a nutrition doctorate scheme based on a model from Denmark. This scheme implies that the candidate continues to work on the enterprise with relevant issues for the employer, while being associated with an entirely ordinary doctoral programme at a university or college. Business doctoral thesis is a sprawl between enterprises and the authorities, where both parties contribute half of the funding each. The scheme contributes both to strengthening research recruitment in priority disciplines, notably technology, and to increasing R & D intensity in industry. After a rather slow start, the demand for food-Ph.D.'s took a heavy toll, and it was before the turn of the year now approx. 120 operational projects. More and more enterprises are getting their eyes on the scheme. In the light of the above, I would argue that the government has continued to invest in research recruitment. Then of course you can ask if the bet is ambitious and powerful enough. The climate for research, i.e. the research report, also introduces Norwegian doctoral education into an international context. Despite strong growth in the number of doctoral degrees passed through the 2000s, the doctoral density in Norway is still slightly lower than in our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland. Denmark has also been committed to stepping up doctoral education a few years ago and will probably be on the level of Sweden and Finland in a few years' time in terms of doctoral density. It would not be unnatural for Norway to aim at the same level. Our Nordic neighbours have the same challenges as us in further developing the welfare society, and with an increasingly knowledge-intensive economy, which the representative Warloe was also facing. The need for more doctoral degrees is also a key point in the NOU of the Fagerberg Committee from last year. In addition, the major universities have again expressed the need for more scholarships in their budget calls. In view of this reduced Ministry of Knowledge and the University and Higher Education Council, a Joint Expert Group mandated in autumn 2011 to assess the specific needs of new scholarships by 2020. The expert group’s report has recently been presented, as was also referred to here. It demonstrates that in disciplines such as humanities, social sciences and medicine/health, there is a good balance between the supply and demand of doctoral students but with room for modest growth. In other disciplines, the report claims to under-cover doctoral students if nothing is done to increase the supply. That's what was the alarm. This is particularly true in the field of mathematical science and technology. In other words, the report states that the rapprochement plan we have set ourselves has worked well in some disciplines, while there is a need for targeted efforts on others. In order to address the future shortage of doctoral graduates in the so-called MNT disciplines, the expert group proposes a stepping-up plan involving the introduction of 350 to 400 new scholarship positions annually by 2020. A commitment of this magnitude will increase the number of doctoral degrees awarded annually to around 2000 in 2020. The recommendations of the expert group will be a major and demanding boost. At the same time, the proposal appears to be well-founded on the basis of documented needs for replacement in academia and the need for increased skills in other social and business life. I recognise the challenge and believe that the group points to important needs. Such a commitment will be important for the country. We need many more doctors if we are to develop Norwegian business, develop health technology or further develop the knowledge base for marine and maritime industries. However, the follow-up to the recommendation is a budgetary issue which, for natural reasons, I cannot discuss here in the Storting at this stage of the process. However, I would like to point out some aspects at the end that could draw the development in the direction recommended in the report – some of which I have had to deal with. Continued improvement in the throughput of doctoral education could over time result in much more doctoral degrees with the same number of fellow students at the bottom. The Närings-Ph.d. scheme will gradually bring forward many new doctors within priority and requested disciplines. In addition, I would also like to mention the immigration of doctoral students to Norway as a possible source of increasing the supply of doctors in this country. About 15 pst. of all doctoral students in Norway in 2009, had foreign citizenship. We experience a large influx of people who want to graduate in Norway and, most relevant in this context, of those who have already completed their doctorate abroad. In addition, many Nordics take doctoral degrees abroad and then return home. With economic crisis in Europe and cuts both in academic and business life, there is reason to believe that more doctoral graduates from abroad will find the Norwegian labour market attractive. Norwegian society has qualities such as well-developed welfare schemes, good clean access, a good balance between work and leisure and a work life characterised by equivalency. All of this is a competitive advantage in the global knowledge society. So I can assure you that the government is concerned with research recruitment. The number of doctoral degrees awarded is increasing, and we have probably not yet taken out the full potential of the graduation plan for scholarship positions from the 2000s. In addition, factors such as improved throughput in doctoral education and the recent contribution to nutrition research will be considered. contribute to further increase in degrees. Increased immigration of doctoral students from crisis countries in Europe will also be able to increase. A group of experts states that the supply and demand of doctors is reasonably balanced in the fields of humanities, social sciences and medicine/health, but there may be a shortage of doctors in priority areas where mathematical science and technology do not increase the supply of doctors. So, the stepping-up plan for scholarship positions, in particular targeting these disciplines, as proposed by the expert group, I recognise as an important challenge. Follow-up to the recommendations of the expert group will therefore have to be included in the annual budgets, where the representative will also find a full description of the research policy challenges and issues that the government is facing at all times. I'm grateful for the interpellation, which also gives the Storting an opportunity to discuss exactly these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e184	I thank you for your answer. In this picture, therefore, there is an underlying trend, over several years, which, for many different reasons, suggests an ongoing increase in the need for those with an ever higher level of education, i.e. in this case at the highest level, the level of doctoral thesis. In addition, as the Council of State was also concerned with its response, there is an international picture in which it can be seen that Norway is probably lagging somewhat behind, among other things. its Nordic neighbouring countries in terms of the number of persons with this training, which would then ensure that growth will continue for years to come. My point in the interpellation was that, in my opinion, there may not be anything significant new in the report that was published a few weeks ago, but that the report – let's say – confirms the development that we have seen. So the state council said in its response that several scholarship positions were not at the top of the priority list, according to the sector. At the same time, she showed that the last few years of budgeting had just suggested several scholarship positions. I want to draw the moment that in recent years there has also been a great focus on temporaryity within the academy. It's been presented as a big problem. Governments themselves have taken up this theme and done something about it. At a meeting with the Church, Education and Research Committee in January, the University and Higher Education Council stated that fewer scholarship positions, i.e. a zero growth in postdoc scholarships, in themselves contributed to increasing the temporaryity of the sector, because there was a greater pressure on the sector when there were no such positions. Therefore, I think it will be necessary – also in order to reduce temporaryity in the academy – to bring together several ear-marked positions at this level. At least that's what the sector itself says. Deepest view, this might be a little bit about how attractive we want to make the academy and the research profession in the future. Do we want the best talents and the best minds – as it is so often called – to bet on a research career, to bet on a position in academia? If we can only offer temporaryity, if we can only offer short-term jobs, if there are no promising career opportunities or career planning within the sector, which is a major problem, we will hardly be able to do so. I think the Council of State is also concerned about this, but I'm kind of missing a clearer strategy from the government in this field, because it turns out that the strategies you operate with may not last long enough to deliver results. I would also like to end by mentioning that the opposition had a proposal when, in the previous period, the Stortingen dealt with the current research report, namely that it wanted the government to present a binding and predictable recruitment strategy for the university and higher education sectors. This proposal was therefore put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e203	We may have a slightly different sense of reality about how the government's strategies work or not, but I made it clear in my post that the strategy we've had, which basically consists of having a measure of the number of doctoral students, we've actually overfilled. The alarming feature of the report that we received from the expert group is that not all subjects have a satisfactory number of doctoral students. The areas where it is satisfactory – where the need is somewhat covered and will be in the near future – are those I mentioned several times in the article, namely humanities, social sciences and medicine/health. Where we really need a bet, are within the mathematical/natural sciences and the technological subjects. That is where the need will be in the future, and that is what this group of experts points to. Of course, I am willing to take this seriously. This is where you go deeper. It is not only recorded that there has been a report that says that the strategy has worked somewhat after the goal, but that it says something about where it is necessary to bet, and gives us a correct and important picture of how the coverage in the various areas is. I have, as I said, great faith that the continued increase in nutrition doctorate degrees, nutrition PhDs, will also help here, but something more is clearly required than that. I also record that the interpellant raises the matter of temporaryity. If there is a direct link between the number of scholarship positions and temporaryity, we can probably discuss on several occasions. I choose to focus on the number of doctoral students and the clear signals that the higher education institutions have given up. There is a very clear difference. The smaller institutions, not least the new universities, would very much like to have more scholarships. It's an important way for them to build up their research base. However, the major universities have not used the scholarships they have been awarded and signal back that they meet their needs in ways other than having ear-marked or doctoral positions. So here we have a little bit of different needs, which of course we have to try to balance as best we can. I fully agree with the interpellant that the need for knowledge is increasing, including at the doctorate level. It's our responsibility, in good cooperation with universities and colleges, to facilitate that we have a sufficient number of people with the highest level of competence, and that we have a good recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e216	Statistics, as we know, are not an exact science. I want to add – for my own part – that there are also no interpellations in the Stortinget. The growth in the number of graduates has definitely not stopped, as the interpellation suggests. But the joy of getting a debate about research recruitment means I don't want to make any bigger points out of it right now. Although the number of successful doctoral dissertations was record high last year, I don't want to dwell so much on it either – not because it's unimportant, because it's important to increase the number of completed doctoral studies. It is, as everyone knows, a growing need for more researchers at all levels, both in business and in academia. Luckily, it is at the end of the time when the doctoral education sector of unperfectly gallant universities, colleges and institutes. I want business to measure its 2 pst. of GDP for research, and if the quality of research is to achieve the desired objectives, the availability of researchers — including a doctoral degree — needs to be increased. The situation within one of our most important industries of future, maritime nutrition, which only has 32 doctoral staff, is seeing this well. The industry is struggling with challenges that require research-based solutions to grow further. The interpellant has pointed out the number of doctoral degrees. I don't disagree with that, but I want to point out that the real competence of the researchers is what is decisive. It is such that in many cases a researcher with a master's degree and relevant work experience will be a good alternative to one with a doctorate for an employer. Today, the doctoral density of researchers in the business community is approximately. 10 pst. Even if it's at the bottom of the desired thing, it's a fact that there's a lot of researchers without a doctorate who do well as colleagues with a doctorate. When the interpellant points out that there are not several scholarship options in the last few years, it is correctly isolated. There is an indicator, but there is no adequate picture of the level of doctoral degrees. It's not always that one goes about a scholarship position to take a doctorate. For example, within humanities, social sciences and medicine/health, 25 pst. The doctorate without going the way about a scholarship position. Before agriculture and fisheries, the level is 30 pst. So it's not like the representative Warloe suggests that because there are no new scholarship positions every year, there's no interest in research recruitment. There has been a clear and continuous growth in doctoral degrees in the last ten years. What I want to point out is that there are also many other factors that need to focus on in order to achieve research policy objectives. Although evaluation of the Norwegian research programme shows that she is consistently good, it is pointed out that the quality can come under pressure if too many small professional environments are given responsibility for the doctoral training. It is therefore important that doctoral programmes take place in an active and stimulating professional environment. In addition to stimulating quality, it is important that future growth comes in the right discipline. A relatively good balance has been demonstrated between supply and demand in humanities, social sciences and medicine/health, just enough room for a small growth. In other disciplines, such as in mathematical science and technology, there is an under-covering of doctoral education if one does not increase the supply. So I kept saying that one doesn't need a doctorate to say that precisely these subjects, the MNT subject, should get extra political attention in the future. It will, to a certain extent, be a natural continuation of the current real-life strategy that we are now seeing asking for fruit. I can report that the students in Sogn and Fjordane are now streaming to the real subject. The trend is very clear on the continuing schooling: language skills are shrinking, and over half of students in pre-school education are well in real life. This will also lead in the next round to further increase access and the need for capacity gain in doctoral education in the mathematical science and technology disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e239	First, I would like to thank the representative for including this important topic in an interview. Norway needs researchers. In order to maintain a high level of prosperity, it is necessary to focus on the development of competences that can ensure value creation for the future. The struggle for brains is becoming increasingly important, not least in a knowledge-driven economy like the Norwegian one. The investment in human capital needs to be strengthened if welfare and prosperity are to be maintained. Short- and medium-term competence challenges lie primarily in real science/technology. Important wealth creators such as petroleum, gas and ICT depend on many taking higher education. Wise heads also help to create new businesses, to see new opportunities for growth and prosperity. Both current and future wealth creators depend on research and researchers. It is therefore worrying that the government has not invested in new scholarships or postdocs in recent years' budgets. This is even more worrying when it comes to the government's attitude to the gift-enhancing system, the TaxFUNN and other positive research incentives. The Progress Party believes that the ability of Norwegian universities and research communities to raise and participate in international research venues needs to be improved. It is necessary to invest in a broader and more competitive national arena. This concerns both the basic framework conditions for the sector and the creation of a larger, sharper and more competitive national competition venue. To do this, we need more researchers. Several researchers will be useful in a number of societal areas. The Progress Party will point out that there is a high potential for R & D related to labour-saving technologies for use in the public sector, and especially in the health sector. This will increase the efficiency of the sector and thus improve treatment capacity and, not least, release sufficient number of hands, which are and will be needed in the coming period. As regards the growing needs of business, the Fagerberg Committee believes that increasing the need for a high level of research competence outside the academy will be a driver for development. In the future, the Fagerberg Committee sees that the distribution is increasing from 40 pst. private sector employment to 50–50. The majority of them will work in the field of technology, says the director of the selection, Professor Jan Fagerberg. The selection further points to the fact that the PhD deficiency is particularly critical for the technology disciplines. This defect may be even more serious than it looks at first sight because the entire 31 pst. by all those taking a doctorate in Norway are non-residents. Most popular are doctoral degrees in mathematics and science. There's 46 pst. non-residents. It is, unfortunately, unlikely that the majority of the foreign doctoral students will decide to work in Norway. This makes it particularly important to have a policy to promote research, which means that we get more people to take a doctorate – doctorates that will benefit Norwegian business, Norwegian Academy of Sciences and Norwegian wealth development. On February 15th, Today’s Business reports that too few people with doctoral degrees in Norway are being trained in relation to their needs in the coming years. It is most critical in mathematics and technology. This report was otherwise interpellant inward, and also the Council of State commented on the article that stood in today's business. It's already pointed to what the Council of State was quoting, that parts of what came out in the report were a wake-up call. It is then the expectation of the Progress Party to the Council of States that it will closely monitor developments in this area and change its strategy if necessary, because it may take a long time for the other measures that the Council of State was involved in its interventions to work. Here it's important to follow closely in the class, so we get the development that we both need and have to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e258	2011 was a record year for completed doctoral degrees in Norway. In 2010, 1 148 disputes were implemented in Norway, almost 500 more than 10 years ago. In 2011, 1327 disputes were carried out, as the Council of State has already said. Suffering if the number of dissertations is high, however, I choose to focus on Norway's need for more graduates with a doctorate. Well, that's what I see as the main intention behind the interpellation, regardless of the history description. We live in a difficult time. The welfare state doesn't just pay by trusting the oil. Knowledge is key. Historically, industrialised countries have been in the driving seat for the development of skills and knowledge. There has been an important reason for development and prosperity. Globalisation through trade and new technologies has led to a decline in the world. Several countries in the world want to understandably improve their daily lives for their people, and several countries see that knowledge and competence are the key to prosperity development. When women get to participate in the knowledge society, it doubles the possibilities of a country. When we hear the term developing countries, we don't think of Norway, but of a underdeveloped country working out of poverty and distress. A few years ago, I was so lucky to hear the Swedish author Fredrik Heren. He believed that Norway should become an undeveloped country again — not a underdeveloped country, but a developing country that has not yet developed but has a mentality and understanding that more needs to be done, more needs to be developed. I think the point of the Lord is good. His point also fits well in this interpellation. How do we motivate and facilitate more researchers? The need for more people with doctoral education is more pressing than in a long time in a globalised world. We have challenges in competition with the rest of the world. Our salary and wealth levels do not allow us to rest on the laurel, on the contrary. It might challenge us more than ever. We need to deliver world-class knowledge and new solutions – just as well and perhaps better than the engineers in China and India. The world has not yet developed, do not sail Norway. How can we contribute to a better, fairer and peaceful world? Swallow a record in the number of doctoral thesises is not enough. According to a report, we should train between 600 and 800 new doctors per year until 2020. This will compensate both for new needs in academia, in business and for retired people. As the Council of State has already explained, it's not just about spending more money on scholarship positions, sailing if it's seaworthy, but it's also about finding good solutions to how we encourage and facilitate to take a doctoral degree. It is therefore also important how we and the institutions facilitate research activities. Time spent on research and the work of researchers is an important part of the organisation. The use of temporary additions, which we have had to discuss here today, is not the most positive force for recruiting for research positions. It is something that the institutions have to help sort out, in fact regardless of whether there is an increase in the number of scholarship positions or not. I've made an odd attempt to help create a discussion about how the institutions can contribute to better quality for the students and more time for research, among other things. by looking at the organisation of the academic year. Otherwise, I join the Council of State's report on nutrition PhDs. The need for research is high in the future, in both humanities, social sciences and medicine/healthy disciplines. Last day’s debate on obesity and obesity is taking place in the range of challenges facing society. Governments have shown that there is a good balance in relation to demand in these subjects. In addition to these challenges, there is a great need for more people with doctoral degrees in the real world, or the MNT subjects. Suffering if the subjects have had some increase lately in some institutions, we need many more with doctoral degrees. These subjects will also find solutions for a world that has not yet been developed but is developing – for better climate, for better health, for enough food and enough energy for everyone. Through the debate, we have received proposals for several actions that need to work together, and this shows that one response is not enough. Both economic, systemic and organisational measures must work together to achieve the goal of more graduates with doctoral degrees in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e288	My good colleague, Henning Warloe, has raised a challenge in the staging room that he believes we are facing. This is because what happens to the development of the number of doctoral degrees passed in the years to come, when we have seen that the government for the third year in a row has not invested in this? It's very nice to stand here and hear how the government council and some government parties respond to this challenge. Thus, they correspond to the efforts made by previous governments, which have laid the foundation for the great growth that has taken place in doctoral degrees – nothing about what will happen in the future. At the same time, the Council of State stands here and boasts violently of that commitment and strategy, but has thus zeroed out the instruments. Because it could be a challenge with so many a year, it's zero for three consecutive years, according to what the government itself said. Because it wasn't at the top of the priority list from the major universities, it's completely out of the Council's priority list. In addition, the Council of State here makes it clear that the major universities have said that this is not the most important thing, but that the new universities – as we have said, we want and will develop, where scholarship holders and postdocs are one of the most important things to develop their research environments – have asked for it, but they get zero. There is a logical flaw here, and there is a confusion that arises over and over again as regards the development of the university sector and higher education. What's the plan? Henning Warloe asked, "What can we do?" What's the plan when it's now zero for the third consecutive year? How are we going to maintain this? And how are we going to deal with that? No response has been received, but reference is made to previous strategies that have produced good results. That's great! Maybe one should take it further? I just want to stress what's the challenge, so that in the years to come there won't be a big deal in this area, when you get the effect that it hasn't been working on this in the third year. What will the Council of State and the Government do to ensure that it does not – and in the event that the gap is not long, too much could indicate that there will be a dip in that curve? Then I have to remind you that when we were talking about nutrition PhDs, we were some people who were strongly critical of the signals that came when we were notified of a reduction in the bet on nutrition PhDs. Because it was so little interest, we said exactly what the council luckyly now confirms: this is coming, but it takes some time. It is good to hear that it has now come, and I hope that it will show again in the budgets that are coming. But the challenge to the Council of State is, what will she fight for? We understand that there will be no budgetary leakages here today, but what direction will the Council of State be fighting for? What will she fight for, to follow the strategies of which it is so unhindered, and to secure the future in the field of postdocs, scholarships and thus doctoral degrees?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e305	Interpellance debates are often marked by conflict of fact, not least fact-on-ground conflicts. Is it a crisis, or is it not a crisis? I think the interpellant blackpainted the situation a lot – it has been pointed out by several speakers already. Too much happens, and there's a growth out there, but it should probably get stronger in certain areas, not least in mathematics, science and technology. In order to address this very recent fact, it is only possible to listen to the last sentences of the Council of State, where the Council of State has just stated that she recognises the challenge that now lies in the lack of research training in certain areas — the ones I mentioned — and that the Council of State has noticed the recommendations of the expert group and, as a matter of fact, will take this into account. in the annual budget work. So here the need for certain areas is recorded, in addition to the fact that it is clearly established that this is something we include in the further budgetary work. So the interpellant has a point of view that there's an incentive from business out there in terms of research education. But I think the interpellant is a little inaccurate when he says that there is no longer enough master. What we know is that it's an aspiration from business to people with different types of education, everything from vocational education through Bachelor's degree programmes – cf. the debate we have on engineering education – and it is absolutely also a need for people with master's skills. So, as you can see, parts of business have our needs for people with different levels of education. Our whole education system, including the labour market, must take this on board, too much of that education, from skilled workers up to and including the doctorate level, the level of research education, must be partly out of the workplace. So I very much agree with the interpellant in this with temporaryity, that it is important that the part of the business/working life that needs people with that kind of competence, should be something better than what they are today to go into the research education, tell very clearly that here we need you, and would like to give them a fairly sure idea that here it is work to get, not temporary work, but regular work, if you only do their research training in a good way. So one final point about this is that we need more research debate. I'm the first one to say that we should have had more of that. I think it's very polite to discuss research. Then I'm not so sure if it's here in the Chamber that I'm asking for more debate on research, because I think such big debates are polite enough, but they become a little internal. No, I think we could do more in the fractions, and not least in the committee, maybe we could solve a little bit of the way we work in the committee so that there could be a more creative discussion between us, more than someone meeting to share some points of view. But first of all, I think that if we want more research debate in society, we're just going to take it out into society, go out and discuss with all those who are involved in research, and participate in those debates. That's when we really lead this field forward, when we get to the debates out there among those who are concerned about it, and not least take the research debates with all those who are now involved in research and research in different ways. So research debates, yes, but not least in society and with society, which are concerned with the topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e316	I would also like to commend the representative of Warloe for raising this important issue. It is in line with a concern the Left has had a long time, and we have submitted a proposal for a representative today. I'm going to come back to our representative proposal, but first of all, I would like to say a little bit about the importance of focusing on an active recruitment policy in the knowledge sector. It's obvious, as it's also been said before, that humans are the deciduous most important resource in our research system. It is also true that society is increasingly asking for formal knowledge, both in order to ‘fill’ in the university and higher education sectors because of retirement and not least in relation to a business with a high level of competence. It has traditionally been such that a doctoral degree primarily qualifies for a job in the UH sector, but in the long term more and more doctoral students will also apply to the business community. There is a development that must help to facilitate from the state. Although the number of doctoral degrees passed has increased over the last decade, there is still a need for more people, more of whom have also been involved here. It has long been mentioned by the Left in the budget debates in this Chamber, and we have also been confirmed by the Working Party set up by the Ministry of Knowledge together with the Council of Universities and Higher Education, as the Council of State has explained. In plain language, the group says that we are going to face a shortage of scholarship holders in the years that will come if nothing is done. Furthermore, there is an estimated need for 340-400 new scholarships per year for the period up to 2020. It gives room for reflection. In my opinion, there is an important basic document presented by the Working Party. I would like to highlight in particular the importance of breaking down the needs assessment in disciplines. Not surprisingly, we see that there is a particular need for far more PhDs in technology and real science. The Council of State was also involved in its reply. In addition to being an important basic document, the Left considers that this report further underlines the need to have an overall and committed plan for new recruitment positions. We've had that before, and we need that again. That is also the background to our proposal for a representative, which we have been promoting today. I'm not going to repeat so much of the history associated with previous escalation plans except to note that there has actually been a broad consensus on these – perhaps until the red-green government offices. After the rest cut, we were promised a big message about research recruitment, but for uncertain reasons, this was reduced to six poor sides of the red-green research report, which came in 2009. Little has happened on this front in the last few years. Since the additional proposition in the context of the financial crisis in 2009, no new grant positions have emerged from the State. In view of the fact that the need for research-trained staff will increase significantly in the coming years, this is defensive, even strange. In comparison, in its alternative budgets, the Left has found room for approx. 500 new scholarship positions, approx. 100 new postdoc positions and approx. 50 postdocs, proportionally distributed between public and private institutions currently in such positions. Let me stress that this is actually fully possible within the responsible financial framework. In the draft representative that we have promoted today, we are calling for a new escalation plan in line with the recommendations of the working group. We propose that such an escalation plan should be submitted to the Stortinget as soon as possible and at the latest in connection with the treatment of the 2013 State budget. In this way, we can ensure satisfactory continuity and predictability in the recruitment of the R & D system. It is not a sustainable solution to wait and assess whether this should be part of the new Research Communication scheduled to be presented in spring 2013. If so, I fear that an escalating plan will only take effect in 2014. I hope that these are signals that the Council of State is taking with it today, which will be useful to have in mind when assessing our proposal for a representative. To sum up, the left lacks a clearer strategy and a commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e336	To follow up on the latter speeches, I'm also a little confused about what the government's current strategy is. I would also like to congratulate the Left on a good proposal for a representative. It was a pity they got us into the bargain, I had almost said. We were going to promote something similar from the Right, but we were going to take this interpellation debate first. I look forward to a further debate when the representative proposal from the Left is to be discussed in the Committee. Let me try to summarise something, seen from the Right, on this topic and this debate. We are dealing with the current research report. It is a research report that the government – of course – has presented and that has been adopted by a large majority. A number of minority proposals were voted down, including: the proposal I referred to in my first speech, which, to the extent that the Left's proposal for a representative follows up. For example, the government writes in the current research notification: ‘Increased recruitment for research and the strengthening of doctoral education is a prerequisite for further development of Norway as a knowledge society.’ And on the other hand, ‘The proportion of staff with research competence in health enterprises, in the institute sector and in industry has increased steadily in recent years, and there is every reason to believe that the demand for doctoral education will continue to rise. If we keep this demand together with the compensation needs of universities and universities, we see that this suggests an increase in doctoral education." So that's what's the basis for the measures that we're developing. The government's response to this very clearly formulated challenge is therefore a job stop in terms of fixed, earmarked positions, scholarship positions and postdoc positions. It seems strange. Then the Council of State and representatives of the government parties here in the debate answer that you have to see the bigger picture. You have to look at the investment through the Research Council, you have to look at the nutrition doctorate, etc. Then you get a growth. This is quite correct, but at the same time it is a little problematic growth, because the sector itself refers to an increased proportion of externally funded jobs of this type as an important explanation for the increase in the duration of the academy. And temporaryity is a problem, it has been said by the Council of State itself, but it may not seem as important in this context. When the government of the state budget last year cut off in the Food and Drug Administration, with reference to the fact that the demand from business was too low, one must consider – as we warned from the opposition – what kind of signal effect one sends out to the industry, which has become familiar with a system, has begun to put it into operation. You say it's important, also from the government, and then you cut it at the same time. In the worst case, there will be double communication and difficult to perceive a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e361	It was a good quote the representative of Warloe had from the research report. Of course, I'm fully committed to it. Our strategy is not so narrow that it's just about purely recruiting positions to universities, it's a lot wider, as both I and others have been involved in. In setting a strategy for research and higher education, the best balance should be found between what is developed by existing mechanisms, such as: through centres for excellent research, through research centres for environmentally friendly energy, and all that has to do with research efforts, which very often involve further recruitment, i.e. scholarship holders. I said in my post that the Norwegian Research Council's share of the scholarship holders has grown from 1,300 to 1,800 in a short time. But the balance point of the strategy thinking must lie between what is then happening because of the mechanisms themselves, and what is directly directed from above, and which is perhaps the representative's main theme here, namely what the Council of State will do directly to the institutions to designate posts. My main answer to that is that it looks like we're pretty well covered, with the natural development that is, by people with doctoral competence in quite a lot of our important disciplines. But we have some challenges, especially in the mathematical, natural science and technology field. I have also said that this, of course, will not only be part of the work on future research reports, but it is not least an important part of other key documents that the Stortinget receives from the government in this area, namely the budget papers. I have also registered that the need for scholarship holders is somewhat different between e.g. the large, old universities and the new universities. I am very aware of that, and I also see that an interesting and exciting increase in interest in nutrition doctoral degrees is something that the new universities – perhaps even more so – should take advantage of. I also register with a certain interest that no one in the debate has been involved in one of the issues that worried me somewhat, namely the drop-off and the long time many are using to take their doctorate, and the demanding work this is for those who are to guide the doctorate students. I hope that the focus on quality thinking will be as prominent as the idea of quantity when we come to the next crossroads and deal with representative proposals, etc., because here there must be good quality in the follow-up of doctoral students. Anyway, we all agree that this is something the country needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e378	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e392	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President understands that the first speaker is Svein Roald Hansen. He was given the floor on behalf of Stein Erik Lauvås, who was the case rapporteur when the case was given, but who was inside as an alternate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e403	Of course, there is full agreement that it is important to have a continuous and independent assessment of whether the assistance provides the results that are the objective. This concerns the assistance we provide bilaterally, whether it is from country to country or through the many voluntary organisations, or it is through the UN system or other international channels. Such an evaluation is important both in order to demonstrate that the objectives are being achieved and in order to draw lessons from the fact that the objectives are not being achieved as they were intended. As can be seen from the setting, a separate evaluation unit has been set up in NORAD to carry out approximately 10 evaluations annually, based on two-year rolling plans. Particular attention is paid to following projects which are considered to be particularly risky or particularly extensive. So far the evaluations. What about independence? It is also taken care of. Assessments are not carried out by NORAD’s own entity. It is carried out by independent consultants and researchers selected following an international bidding round. Of course, the Ministry cannot instruct or influence this part of NORAD’s operations. Information on the bidding rounds, mandates and reports is open on NORAD’s websites and can thus be traced back to the seams of anyone who wishes to do so. This transparency is important and helps to ensure that independence is real and not just formal. The president of the Committee, Mr Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, also said in an interview on 17 January last year: ‘Norway has good practice in evaluating assistance. Here, the Minister of Assistance will also be commended for his openness, perhaps especially in the evaluations of Norway’s contribution to Sri Lanka.’ In addition to this, Storting’s own — never resting — Supervisory Body, the National Audit Office, carry out administrative reviews of aid projects. It is also an important part of the evaluation and learning work. In this work, Norwegian assistance is also assessed by national audits of other countries — if any would think that our own national audit would not be sufficiently independent of the government. We get the National Audit Reports to Stortinget. Let me put in one thought that can be assessed, whether the independent evaluations could be properly communicated to the Storting, so that we get a continuous insight into the results of these as well. The proposer refers to Sweden and the United Kingdom, which have evaluation units outside the assistance body, and not as with us, in NORAD. The basis of experience in this way of organising the evaluation is, in the view of the majority of the Committee, currently limited to assessing whether there is a better way of ensuring independence than our model. But this is something we should follow and take into account in an ongoing assessment of the adequacy of the evaluation method, because it must also be for ongoing evaluation, as the aid projects themselves must be. I guess the minority itself will explain its view, where it separates layers by the majority. The majority therefore believe that the proposals contained in the document have been taken into account overall in today’s evaluation form. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e434	When we decided in the Progress Party to promote this proposal that we are now considering, it was because we have noticed an increasing interest in this. So it's not something we've come up with ourselves. There has been a wish from some non-governmental organisations that are strongly involved in Norwegian aid work. As we underline in the setting: NORAD's own evaluation is important and useful, but we do not think it is enough. Actors we've talked to express it this way: the absence of independent evaluation is an advantage for those who make a mediocre effort. When a project is only partially successful, or simply a failure, NORAD's commitment to the department will reduce NORAD's credibility as an evaluation body. I have no reason to claim that NORAD cheats on this. NORAD evaluates. They use consultants in their evaluation work, but what NORAD does is really to assess their own activities. Of course, legitimate doubts can arise as to whether such evaluation is carried out with a critical view. The ability of relevant criticism is always greater for those who operate completely independently of the activities to be evaluated. However, I would like to take note of Mr. Svein Roald Hansen's report that NORAD's evaluation reports are being presented to the Stortinget. I join that recommendation to the Council of State, and hope it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e447	The President believes that the representative Myhre would make suggestions. It can to the extent that the next speaker does. – Then the representative of Skovholt Gitmark does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e452	Let me start by addressing what the proposal on the right stands with the Progress Party on. In an earlier note, it says: ‘The Committee will point out that Norway is one of the world’s largest donors of assistance measured as a share of gross national income [[GNI]] This is from Innst. 82 S for 2010–2011. I believe that this comitology comment could also have taken place in this proposal. This is a good proposal. It is a proposal that deserves to be adopted, but it is equally important to link some comments to it. Firstly, it is now a good system of evaluations that is at the heart of it. There are reports to the Stortinget through budgetary documents. These are NORAD's own results reports. Let me add that I think the annual results report has been very good. There are reports and the publication of actual consumption through the NORAD statistical portal. It's NORAD's evaluation function. A separate alert channel has also been launched in 2008. The use of PTA – i.e. Plan Grant Agreement – now applies to the entire U.D. grant management and came in 2009. The sum is that while the department in 2009 managed about 86 pst. of the assistance, NORAD had approx. 12 pst. the management responsibilities of the assistance. However, it does not remove what I believe is the main point of departure for the agreement of the government parties on this proposal, namely that in Norway the responsibility for execution, evaluation and quality assurance is to some extent assigned to the same body. So I believe that NORAD's evaluation department has a large degree of, and is going to have a large degree of, independence. But it's about how this is also seen by others. I believe that all the positive things that Svein Roald Hansen brings forward on behalf of the government parties are fully respected if one also has a completely independent evaluation unit outside the NORAD system, as the questions that both the Right and the Advance Party are drawing up will be answered by that independence. The evaluation won't get any worse, but it'll actually get better. But the big question here is how to use the money. I believe that again is a question that we can involve in this matter. The way in which the evaluation is carried out also has to do with signal effects. It has to do with how we document that the money goes to the best possible projects. Then I believe that we should have an ongoing and honest evaluation and publication of documents, from the project application on one side until the last detailed evaluation is completed on the other side. As politicians, we must always strive for the money to go to the projects that are best suited to the goals we set ourselves. So I believe that one of the problems that we actually see, and that the government has to some extent talked about, but to a small extent followed up with action, is how we can use the evaluations to twist the aid and twist the money from those who deliver less, to those who deliver more. I wish that was something we were given far more opportunity to debate, and to debate in detail. If we do, Norwegian development policy has gone a long way. I think it's fundamentally positive that they're now at least taking it into account in word changes. When you base government policies over the last six years, this has improved somewhat. But it should have been significantly better. So let me just say that I believe that this proposal is good, and it deserves to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e472	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e475	Let me first underline what everyone agrees on: Continuous, thorough and independent evaluations of aid projects are important to demonstrate the proper functioning of the assistance. They also contribute to ensuring that the funds are used as efficiently as possible. In addition, evaluations are important in order to gather experience and learn from mistakes. Norway, together with many other countries and countries receiving it, has thus developed a variety of more independent evaluations. This has been done for decades. It's nothing new. The NORAD-funded evaluations are carried out by independent consultants and researchers. These are selected following an international bidding round. The Ministry may not instruct or influence this part of NORAD’s activities. So far, the whole committee agrees. Assistance is not without evaluation. On the contrary, aid is a sector that may be analysed more often and more thoroughly than many other social sectors. We know that. It surprises me that the Progress Party will not be involved in the Committee's reference to any of the many independent evaluations that are, of course, also carried out by other bodies. Here are some examples: The National Audit Office has its own administrative reviews. They are a central part of the evaluation and learning work. The OECD Development Cooperation Committee, DAC, conducts periodic peer reviews. In these, Norwegian aid work is assessed by other countries’ aid experts. In addition, many other evaluations will be carried out. The experts of the International Monetary Fund have also carried out evaluations of the impact of assistance. In a known study, the traditional form of Scandinavian assistance was highlighted in particular. Researchers drew a distinction between aid that is believed to have a positive impact on development, such as road construction, schools and health stations, and aid that does not. The Scandinavian countries provide much unbounded and developmental assistance. When donor countries are ranked according to the quality of assistance, Scandinavian countries came very well into the IMF evaluation. The IMF study also shows that the impact of aid on economic growth needs to be looked at over a long period of time, often for decades. They have looked at how different types of assistance from different countries provided between 1960 and 1990 affect GDP growth per capita between 1990 and 2000 in 30–40 countries. The conclusion is clear: Development-oriented assistance traditionally provided by Scandinavian countries has a positive and significant impact on economic growth. Norwegian development-oriented assistance works. The findings of the IMF study agree very well with the message given to Professor William Easterly, one of the world's leading aid critics. He shows, among other things: to research that clearly substantiate the benefits of health and education assistance. It saves lives, and it gives better health. It gives poor opportunities to learn to read and write. This is an objective in itself and an important prerequisite for contributing to growth in the long term. Easterly is particularly concerned with health-related assistance: health is the area in which aid has renewed its most striking success. He then listed a number of examples of what this is all about, among other things.routine immunisation, campaigns to raise awareness among parents of the use of rehydration therapy, a regional programme to eliminate polio in Latin America, etc. Easternly refers to the fact that infant mortality in poor countries has fallen. Life expectancy has increased. He pointed out that many of these programmes benefited from donor funding and technical assistance, and that the facts support the belief that the aid was effective in many of the above cases. He concludes as follows: Yes, Western aid can help poor people with some of their most desperate problems. Further: Aid alone cannot make poverty history. Only the independent efforts of poor people and poor countries can put an end to poverty. However, assistance focused on carrying out tasks will facilitate the suffering of many desperate people in the meantime. He ends with the rhetorical question: isn't this enough? In any case, it shows that good development assistance works. Then we need to continually develop the evaluation methods, assess the effect more clearly, change the scheme where things don't work, and not least learn how other countries do it. I have allowed myself to ask the Minister for Development earlier about the kind of broad overall reviews of the aid that the British have now done, and that has been done in Sweden and Australia, should not be Norway at some point in time. I would like him to comment on it. When the Christian People's Party supports the setting, it's because we follow the well-tested and good principle of not repairing anything that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e525	It is good to hear Dagfinn Højbråten talk about assistance. He talks about it with warmth and commitment and indicates to the full that this is something that works. He is also entitled to help is not among the least evaluated but probably among the most evaluated areas of society. I would like to put in an argument that it is right that this should be so, because there is every reason to believe that when Norway spends money, let's say, to contribute to faster economic growth or health development in a country like Tanzania, it is more difficult than to contribute to economic growth or health development in Norway. Since it's a difficult area, it's all the more reason to have many evaluations and learn from the good things that happen in many places, and learn from the mistakes we and others make. That is why there is every reason to have many evaluations of assistance, but it is not so that there are few of them. There are very many and probably more than in most other areas of society. According to the evaluation instructions of NORAD, those carrying out the evaluations shall be independent researchers and consultants. So it's not like they're done by people in the department or by NORAD. It is done by independent institutions. It is also very clear – to repeat it – that the NORAD evaluation department does not carry out the evaluations itself, but places the various evaluation tasks on international tenders. I would like to add that Norway has done something that I know no other country has done, namely to have a thorough evaluation of a country's own efforts in a peace process. I have to say in brackets that I did not agree, in close proximity, with all the conclusions of the evaluation of our efforts in Sri Lanka, but it was also the very purpose, that it was independent and therefore contained views that political leadership did not share. The Director of the evaluation department of NORAD shall report professionally to the Foreign Affairs Council and not to the Director of NORAD. I would nevertheless like to thank both the Right and the Advance Party for raising this debate. It is a debate without a clear phase and conclusion. This work is organised in different ways in countries that are close to us. In Sweden, they have their own separate organisation, but it is not completely independent, for it reports to the Minister of Assistance. It is therefore the same political reporting system as we have in Norway. In the United Kingdom, they have a Commission that reports to Parliament, so it is more independent of political leadership if they are to be asked for these formalities. Now Peter Skovholt Gitmark is very right in saying that the conversion of NORAD by Hilde Frafjord Johnson, above all, has made NORAD a policy assessment instrument. There is no longer NORAD to manage large aid funds. With the exception of the efforts of civil society, scarcely any of the means of assistance are located under NORAD. They're under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So that's another instance that evaluates the State Department's efforts. It would be a much closer, direct connection, if you are concerned about these formalities, whether it should be in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or directly under the Minister of Development than it is now in NORAD. It is true that historically, NORAD has distributed most and most of the money in Norwegian aid, but that is not the situation today. I haven't checked the numbers, but I heard Skovholt Gitmark say that 86 pst. is located below the department and 12 pst. Under NORAD, so there is no doubt about where the large amount of money is. Whether this is the logical and correct structure, I don't know, but I think it was very important not to come in and do it again on everything Hilde Frafjord Johnson had decided. She laid down such a structure, and it always creates a lot of noise and ugrey if each new government council is to create new systems. At least that's what we have to deal with right now. Then I'm going to make one more argument, and it's not without meaning that there's a closeness between those who practice politics and those who evaluate. The reason for this is that evaluations should not only be true and correct and raise important issues. They shall also be relevant. They shall have an impact on policy-making. This is not free basic research, but evaluations of projects with the aim of learning. I feel that we have the right balance now, but again with full openness because here different countries have chosen different ways. I can come back to more questions in a possible line change, but I just want to tell Peter Skovholt Gitmark that we are participating in a series of different international evaluation systems. I have initiated close cooperation with Sweden in particular, since Norway and Sweden are the two largest contributors to many UN organisations, and Gunilla Carlsson and I will facilitate Norway and Sweden to a much greater extent acting together in our assessment of the main UN organisations, such as UNICEF, UNDP and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e546	The President has doubts as to whether the representative Peter N. Myhre has signed a line or a three-minute term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e549	I've drawn myself a line!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e555	Peter N. Myhre has drawn himself in line. So it's going to be a line chord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e558	In connection with the input that came from the representative Hansen at the beginning of this debate, I would like to ask the Minister of Assistance if the government will put the evaluation reports before the Storting. I also joined it, and as representatives of two parties which have a very solid majority in the Grand Duchy, I hope the Minister for Assistance will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e563	All evaluations are, of course, open. These are not internal evaluations; they are fully accessible to the public. But I see no problem at all that we can find some way to send this to Stortinget if Stortinget wants it. We follow what Stortinget wants. So if the Storting wants to get this transmitted, we'll obviously find some kind of it, but they're now freely available, both in paper version and online version.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e568	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e586	As I said, on 17 January last year I went to an interpellation debate about a very critical report on Ethiopia from Human Rights Watch. The Minister of Development then thought that Ethiopia might be Africa’s ‘largest development success’ and that ‘it is not a systematic pattern’ of human rights violations. Since then, there have only been more reports and revelations that the situation of human rights is deteriorating, and the Freedom House has been downgrading the country from ‘partially free’ to ‘free’. In the interpellation debate, the Minister of Development also said that there is a ‘consistent, unanimous opinion’ among all countries that the Human Rights Watch report Development without Freedom: How Aid Underwrites Repression in Ethiopia does not give a reasonable picture of the situation. He went on to say, "That's what the United States means. It means all of our neighbouring Western countries». However, the US believes that the report provides a reasonable picture of the situation. The United States has repeatedly referred to the report since 2005. A U.S. embassy note in Addis says: ‘The accusations of politicising foreign aid to Ethiopia, including humanitarian emergency aid, are consistent with reports by organisations, opposition politicians, media and members of the international donor community.’ So, as the United States points out, other donor countries share this view. Since the last interpellation debate, Ethiopia’s Prime Minister Meles Zenawi has also visited Norway. In October 2011, he was here at the Energy for All Conference. Ethiopia has achieved good economic growth performance in recent years. However, developments have gone against fundamental human rights. Meles was met with applause from both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but he was also met by many and loud demonstrators when he attended the conference. Many of them themselves have fled from the regime. One of them, Adam Mulualem Zerikun, fled Ethiopia because he was oppositional. To the evening post, he said: ‘Meles has imprisoned hundreds of opposition and journalists. He has created an impossible climate for foreign organisations to work in, because they are not allowed to talk about human rights. It is unworthy for Norway to invite a dictator here to Oslo. [[...]] Norway must do as Sweden does, and reduce the ties with Meles Zenawi, do not strengthen those that you are doing now.’ While more and more disturbing reports are being made that the regime abuses aid to suppress oppositional and dissidents, that critical and independent journalists are being imprisoned, that food aid is being distributed only to those who support the regime, that foreign aid organisations are not allowed to operate in the country, that information work on human rights has been banned and that extensive election yokes are taking place, the Norwegian Government continues to pay tribute to Meles for Ethiopia’s economic progress – with Solheim and Stoltenberg at the head. We hear little about human rights violations. In the last year, we have also seen a steady tightening of the Meles regime, where terrorist laws are used to crush the opposition, where oppositional prisons and torture are being carried out, where organisations such as Amnesty International are expelled from the country, and where two Swedish journalists were recently sentenced to 11 years in prison for alleged terrorist activity when they were to document the conditions of opposition. In contrast to Norway, both the United States and the EU expressed concern about the judgment. A handful of Ethiopian journalists and opposition politicians have also been convicted of so-called terrorist activities under the new anti-terrorist law. The Ethiopians have been sentenced from 14 years to lifetime incarceration. In the last six months of 2011, Tom Rhodes of the Committee of Protect Journalists said that in the last four months, the authorities have used widespread terrorist laws to apprehend independent journalists in an attempt to eradicate the last critical voices in the country. So the situation has only given rise to human rights in Ethiopia. Now in March comes the verdict against some-and-twenty Ethiopian opposition and human rights champions. The Anti-Terrorism Act is now beginning to act as a highly repressive instrument against ordinary opposition and civil society activities. The United States has also said very critically about this. In addition, five of the UN Special Rapporteurs on human rights, including freedom of expression, terrorism and human rights and freedom of organisation, had a unique joint opinion at the beginning of February of this year, criticising Ethiopia strongly and implementing the Anti-Terrorism Act. Another obvious development discovered by several donors, including Finland, almost by chance, is a high degree of forced displacement, so-called ‘villagization programmes’. The regime must force 1.5 million people into four regions. Many have fled to the refugee camps in Dadaab and Nairobi. It is the peripheral regions most affected, regions where minority groups have always been marginalised and oppressed by the central Highlands-Ethiopia. Thus, in many ways, a centuries-long tradition continues, which in turn will create resistance and conflict between periphery and centre. In particular, the nomadic groups are affected; central government sees them as a threat to the nation state. At the same time, these Muslims are not considered to be real Ethiopians. Western donors have a special responsibility to carry out independent investigations to clarify whether our aid money is used for such forced displacement. On 17 January of this year, Human Rights Watch issued the report «Waiting Here for Death: Forced Displacement and «Villagization» in Ethiopia's Gambila Region», which reviews the first year of forced displacement in one of the four regions. It shows the coercive nature of the move, the loss of livelihood, the hunger, the worsening of the food situation and the ongoing abuses by armed forces against people being moved. The Ethiopian government’s ‘villagization’ programme does not improve access to services for Gambella’s indigenous people and minorities, but instead undermines their livelihood and food security, says Jan Egeland. Egeland dares to be known to most here at home, and is now the European Chief of Human Rights Watch. On 17 January this year, the BBC World Service sent an outrageous report from Gambila on how the situation in Ethiopia is developing. The BBC reported the forced movement of human beings and ‘land grab’ from the authorities. The earth in these areas is sold or rented to foreigners, while the Ethiopians must have food aid. Today, 13 million Ethiopians need food aid. There are reports of major human rights abuses, of coercion, violence, rape, of so-called ‘Stalin methods’, as the reporter called it. The Oakland Institute, which monitors many African countries for signs of peoples and groups moving from their rural areas, also expresses itself very critically in the report. The BBC also interviewed Jan Egeland, who expressed great concern about the situation. Human Rights Watch has visited 16 provinces in Ethiopia in hiding after being thrown out of the country in 2010. Survival International recently produced a report of concern that points to the major problems of forced displacement in other regions as well. They conclude: the Ethiopian government is responsible for some of the most violent and obvious human rights abuses Survival International has seen for many years. By camouflaging theft of countries such as ‘development’, the regime is counting on these atrocities to escape. Finland’s Minister for Development Heidi Hautala, from Solheim’s sister party, and a recognised defender of human rights are very critical of the regime in Ethiopia. To Development Today in November 2011 she gave an interview. She came back from Ethiopia and compared Ethiopia to Zanzibar. She says that in Ethiopia, progress has been well measured according to several indicators: children can go to school and clean water is available. But freedom of expression has shrunk, and – in their own words – human rights organisations live in an atmosphere of fear. At Zanzibar, the atmosphere was the opposite: development goals still need work, but civil society organisations were full of energy and power. Hautala further said that she was amazed at how the regime in Ethiopia thought that any human rights organisation that has received financial assistance from abroad is considered to be a political opponent. An increasing level of unrest and uncertainty is observed among international diplomats and donors against Ethiopia. Many people put the question, are we being tricked by Meles? During the debate on Ethiopia last year, Solheim pointed out to the British authorities that we from the Right should agree with the assessments they make. We've been to the United Kingdom, we've discussed Ethiopia with DFID, and we've clearly stated that we disagree with DFID in their assessment of Ethiopia. A majority of organisations working with human rights and civil society express strong concern about the situation. Land near us does the same for civil society, for journalists, for indigenous people. We have seen that both Sweden and Finland have taken a step towards loosening the ties to the regime, and it is clear that it is increasingly only Erik Solheim who does not see a systematic pattern of human rights violations, or who believes that it is a unanimous view that this is the case. That's just not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e646	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreides interpellation can actually be divided into two points. One is: who is right in a slightly special debate – who is right in describing American and British policies in this area? And the second is, what is the real situation in Ethiopia? Let me start with American and British politics, because that's the core of the interpellation, and then I'm going to get back to the much more important question: what can be done about the human rights situation in Ethiopia? There's no doubt, as I see it, that it's me, and not the interpellant, who's right in describing American politics. We have had close dialogue with the United States in response to this interpellation, both with the State Department, through our embassy in Washington, and with the U.S. embassy in Addis Ababa. Neither we nor the United States can confirm with any certainty which document it refers to, but as both we and the Americans see it, this is most likely a WikiLeaks report from the end of 2009. In that case, this WikiLeaks report was written the year before the Human Rights Watch report to which it refers came. As the Americans see it, and as we see it, what the Americans do is to give a situation description, namely that human rights organisations and the media are critical of the human rights situation in Ethiopia. It's obvious, and we're also critical of it. It is also a description of what is contained in this WikiLeaks report. Otherwise, I would generally warn against using WikiLeaks as a source of truth, as in the interpellation, for what the United States thinks. What the United States thinks is the official policy of the United States, not WikiLeaks reports. Following the Human Rights Watch report referred to, the Americans came to an opinion with the support of the overall support group in Ethiopia, to which Norway also joined, and which led the inter-pelling debate a year ago. So there is absolute identity between Norwegian and American policies in this area. This also applies to EU policies. Let me add that it's not just that we and the State Department and the United States agree, we also agree with the British government. There was considerable irony about what Prime Minister Stoltenberg and the undersigned are doing in this area. Well, at least the same irony has to be used for Prime Minister Cameron and Minister for Development Mitchell, because the United Kingdom has now developed cooperation with Ethiopia into the UK's largest aid programme for the next two years. The United Kingdom will give 12 billion dollars. Norwegian kroner in aid to Ethiopia during the next four-year period and the budget for 2012 is nearly 3 billion. Norwegian Krone. The increased support provided by the United Kingdom is based on what Mitchell has made his main concern, namely that it should be performance-based assistance. Where the aid works, there he will escalate. So his perception is that the aid works in Ethiopia. He is stepping up assistance in Ethiopia because the country has achieved a lot in economic and social fields. To conclude this special round: as to whether it is the Norwegian government or the representative who is most in agreement with the Americans and the British, I think the conclusion is crystal clear: it is the government that agrees most with Americans and British. But more importantly, the situation in Ethiopia. There is no need to conceal that many of the circumstances pointed to by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide are worrying. To mention some of the most worrying features of the human rights situation in Ethiopia: The country has submitted an anti-terrorist bill. Ethiopia itself says that the anti-terrorist legislation is based on American and British patterns. Of course, it is quite legitimate for a country to have an anti-terrorist legislation, but our opinion is that it is very difficult to assess how individual cases are handled in it, and that there is reason for concern that anti-terrorism legislation can be used politically against those who disagree with the government of Ethiopia. There is also considerable concern about freedom of the press in Ethiopia. These are difficult conditions for the free press. The majority of journalists who have been imprisoned in the last 20 years have been released, but arresting journalists is in itself a signal that creates fear and uncertainty and thus contributes to a significant degree of self-esteem. The UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Speech has also expressed concerns about freedom of the press in Ethiopia. We are also concerned about the limited space for political opposition in Ethiopia. There can be a long discussion about whether it was the government or the opposition that created the situation that almost all Members of Parliament come from the Government Party. In any case, it is the result, and it is not desirable. In all our dialogue with Ethiopia, we will call for the creation of a political space for a real opposition, so that it can be clearly represented in Parliament and take part in the governance of the country. A number of opposition politicians have spent time in prison. They have now been released, but they have spent time in prison, and again — creating uncertainty and lack of room for the real opposition. So there is no reason to hide that there are worrying features of the human rights situation in Ethiopia – anti-terrorism legislation, press freedom, political space. There is also a controversial law on civil society that many non-governmental organisations react to, and the imprisonment of Swedish journalists and other features also gives rise to a worrying human rights situation. We are now putting up what we call a structured political dialogue with Ethiopia, and we expect to sign an agreement with Ethiopia in the not distant future about such a dialogue. A part of that dialogue will be to put far more emphasis on being able to address all these human rights issues, which both the representative and I are concerned about. At the same time, I must add that Ethiopia too – despite a worrying human rights situation – is an African success story. They have made tremendous progress in the Millennium Goals, and on economic and social human rights they score impressively. At the age of 20, children’s access to primary school in Ethiopia increased from 32 p.m. up to 94 p.m. and the objectives of e.g. The fight against HIV/AIDS and malaria has come a long way. It has also come a long way to reduce extreme poverty. It is 15 years reduced from 50 to 30 pst. of the population and falling further, and Ethiopia is among the countries that are ready to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals on halving poverty. So here's a mixed picture -- of an impressive economic and social progress that's visible to everyone visiting Ethiopia, but at the same time a worrying human rights situation. I also want to add that there are two other areas where Ethiopia is important. Ethiopia has provided the most impressive low-carbon strategy of any country in Africa. They say they're going to be able to become a middle-income country in 2025, without increasing greenhouse gas emissions. It shall do so by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture and in forestry as much as greenhouse gas emissions will increase in urban development and transport as a result of economic growth and growth. If Ethiopia does this, which is an incredibly ambitious goal, it will be the first time a country has managed to become a middle-income country without increased greenhouse gas emissions, and that is in this way one of the most interesting experiments in Africa. I would also like to say that during the launch of the very same low-carbon strategy it was again the Norwegian Government and the British Government that participated with Prime Minister Meles, because we believe this is such a crucial point. No developing country, either in Africa or anywhere else on the globe, has put forward such an ambitious strategy to resolve the climate crisis. In the past, Ethiopia played a crucial role in conflict resolution both in Somalia and in Sudan. Everyone is familiar with the crisis in Somalia. Ethiopian troops conquered last week Baidoa, which was promoted as positive by a global international community during the Somalia meeting in London last week. Ethiopia has played perhaps the most decisive role, together with the former President of South Africa, Mbeki, in conflict resolution in Sudan. All in all, and to sum up, Ethiopia is a very important country for conflict resolution in Africa. They have an impressive climate policy, they have great positive results in terms of economic and social progress, but there is a worrying situation in important areas of human rights. We take that up publicly, we take that up in all our meetings with Prime Minister Meles and other Ethiopian leaders, and we will now enter into a strategic dialogue with Ethiopia about that. We want dialogue on the other issues as well, for example: on conflict resolution in Sudan, while we are discussing human rights issues with them. In this area, the Norwegian Government is very fine with American and British policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e686	I thank the Council of State for the answer – not a very surprising answer. There's a lot of resounding here from the interpellation debate we had a year ago and, in my opinion, the same unwillingness to actually go into the major human rights problems that Ethiopia is experiencing. It is no surprise to say that the aid works in Ethiopia. They have – as I also said in my interpellation – made great progress on many indicators. Now is also a little bit of the problem, as many people point out, that precisely because Ethiopia is so important for the implementation of the Millennium Goals, Western donors are quite low in human rights and Ethiopia, precisely because it is known that Meles Zenawi has previously boycotted Western donors when it has begun to impose stringent human rights requirements, for example. related to the 2007 local elections. Last August, I asked the Council of State a written question about the revelations from the BBC and the Bureau of Investigative Journalism that the Ethiopian authorities should have refused to distribute food and emergency aid to villages where opposition parties are strong. In his reply, the Council of State said: ‘It is important to examine the new claims in the BBC report.’; And that he ‘in cooperation with other countries, we will look at how we can contribute to this.’ The question is what concrete steps the Minister for Development has taken to actually examine whether these claims are correct. I just want to underline one thing that strikes me when I hear the answer from Erik Solheim. How is it possible, then, to call a country 'impressive' and 'a success story' when, on the one hand, there is great progress in the economic and social field but, on the other hand, there is an increasingly high level of human rights violations. The Minister for Development did not mention the Forced Movement Programmes in one word in his response, which affects 1.5 million people, largely indigenous people who are being taken from the bread of life, who are starving, and in which violence and abuse are being committed by armed forces. It is not mentioned in one word in his answer. To me, it is incomprehensible that such a country can be called ‘a success story’ and ‘an impressive’. Yes, in many fields it's been well, but it can't be that there is a trump attack on human rights of such a kind as we see in Ethiopia. My question is really where the limit goes. When you really put your foot down for a regime that we use about. 200 million. kr a year on – direct state-to-state money – which is the result of Meles Zenawi gradually refusing to operate in the country by almost all international organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e709	You have to be careful to then doubt the motives of others. When I've been through areas of human rights problems in Ethiopia, I'm surprised that you choose to doubt it. With regard to this 2012 Human Rights Watch report, to which the interpellant refers, on the resettlement programme, The Development Assistance Group, consisting of the United Kingdom, the United States, Norway and a number of other countries, has sent ‘fact-finding mission’ to all regions where the resettlement programme is taking place. They have found that the resettlement is carried out quickly, but that the basic services are often not in place. This is worrying, and they have raised the matter with the Ethiopian authorities, but the investigations do not support Human Rights Watch's allegations of forced resettlement and systematic and comprehensive human rights violations. So we can't take and throw out statements about something as serious as human rights abuse without thoroughly investigating them. This is what the Addis Ababa community has done, including EU countries, the United Kingdom, the United States and Norway. They have concluded that there is no basis for the most far-reaching claims in the Human Rights Watch report. I assume that the interpellant also does not believe that one should base one's policy on claims for which no basis is found. Then there are extensive human rights problems in Ethiopia through anti-terrorist legislation, through spaces for other political parties, political prisoners, the conditions for journalists and a series of other questions that I raised in my previous post. All these are key issues in our dialogue with the Ethiopian authorities, and there are absolutely key issues in British and American dialogue with the Ethiopian authorities. For example, the characterisation of Ethiopia as a development success is not different from that of Ethiopia. characterising China as a development success. I have no doubt that China has made rapid and substantial economic progress, although there are significant human rights violations in China. The same is true of the situation in Ethiopia — a major and rapid economic progress, but with significant human rights violations. These human rights violations are discussed with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e722	This is actually a review of the interpellation a little over a year ago. And now, as at the time, I think it's hard to understand the claims that the Secretary of Development ignores and ignores the serious reports of human rights violations. I mean he clearly in his post that time, and in his post now, confirms that this is something you take seriously and you follow it, as you should, whether it's from the Human Rights Watch or whether it's from other organizations, that the interpellant pulled out. Then I think you are selective in what you perceive and what you want to hear in what the Minister for Development says. There is no reluctance to address the serious issues. Of course, the number of MR breaches and, where appropriate, abuses of assistance, such as politicisation and reports suggest, are unacceptable. It must be addressed to the authorities of Ethiopia. Although other agencies cannot report any of the claims, it may be that you see different aspects of a whole, that abuse takes place somewhere, but not elsewhere. The important thing is that the reports on abuse of aid, human rights violations and possible abuses are followed up and addressed with the authorities of Ethiopia. I believe the Minister for Development has said that today – not only by Norway, but also in cooperation with other donor countries. Ethiopia is a complex country. This recognition is intended to enable us to understand that the construction of democracy, respect for democratic rules of play and not least universal human rights, including those relating to freedom of expression, freedom of speech, freedom of organisation, etc., are demanding to build up in a society where this is new and alien. Of course, there is no excuse the authorities can hide behind not respecting themselves and doing what they can to ensure that they are complied with. The aid exposure should provide increased opportunities to influence developments in the right direction in this area as well. We now hear the Council of State say that a dialogue must be established with the authorities on this. Turning the country back will not be a contribution to pushing this part of the development in the right direction. Then Ethiopia has a lot to point out in terms of economic development and more good results compared to the Millennium Goals. It seems that economic growth is used to improve people's living conditions. It must be possible to rejoice without being interpreted as, or understood as, a sort of tribute to the country's president or leadership. It may be that in some areas you have success, while in other areas you don't have it and you don't depend on and don't respect human rights. Success in some areas, of course, is not an argument for following up on democratic development and human rights. On the contrary, we must stress that democracy is not an obstacle to economic growth and social progress. It is the opposite – democracy and respect for the integrity of individuals contribute to greater economic growth. It creates a more inclusive society, where more can contribute. The fact that Ethiopia is a central country in relation to global challenges such as climate and regional conflicts and challenges, such as Sudan and Somalia, can also be seen positively without there being any argument to look through the lack of democracy and respect for human rights. On the contrary, I believe that this gives more arenas to engage in the political leadership of the country, also in a dialogue on these aspects of development both in Ethiopia, in the regions, and throughout Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e741	Let me first thank the representative Eriksen Soreide for raising again the question of Norway's relations with Ethiopia. I also brought this up myself in October last year. Let me establish what we agree on: we agree that Ethiopia is a large and important country. It's the third most populous country in Africa with 88 million inhabitants. We agree that there is an adventurous economic growth in Ethiopia – almost 10 pst. annual, that there is a decrease in illiteracy and that there is also a recordable improvement in poverty. Nevertheless, Ethiopia is perhaps the country where poverty laughs most at when a foreigner comes and visits countries in East Africa. In other countries south of the Sahara, there is a growing interest in human rights and democracy. It's not in Ethiopia. In Ethiopia, we are dealing with a regime that bears the full characteristics of the dictatorship: it is about the imprisonment of journalists and oppositionists and about the total absence of freedom of the press. It's impossible to establish a powerful opposition when you can't communicate through the media. It's one of Africa's most corrupt countries. There is a systematic violation of human rights with such an abominable enthusiasm that only it should call for a change in the strategy that Norway has followed to date towards the regime in Ethiopia. Norway continues to spend 200 million on the regime. kr per year after the voluntary organisations were chased out for a while. And President Zenawi in Ethiopia said last fall: It's very nice that Norway grants us these 200 million. However, we do not think that Norway is interfering in Ethiopia's internal affairs. I think we can no longer accept this. I have a feeling that in government circles in Ethiopia, they are sitting behind closed doors and laughing rattled by Norwegian naivety in terms of gifts of money to a regime that has no desire to make progress on human rights, democracy and development. As I have also mentioned earlier, I believe that in some situations we need to use the financial instruments we have – that is not enough talk – and stop the aid, or at least reduce it noticeably for a period of time, before we possibly come back and check and check whether the regime has in the meantime progressed in the development of democracy and human rights. I am pleased that the representative Eriksen Soreide addresses this, because it is important that we in Stortinget now have an active position on this issue. We can no longer accept everything from this regime. Although they are good with climate objectives – that is, the Norwegian government too – and the economy in the country in the future is not good enough. I visited Ethiopia in the fall of 2010. I saw that people lived in tents and even on the streets of Addis Ababa – in a country where a large part of the population lives in highlands where there is a rather tough climate, where it is called much of the year. The suffering is enormous, and it is more tangible than it is in comparable countries in East Africa. I would like to join in the call for an assessment of the attitude towards Ethiopia and for a change to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e758	I'm not normally particularly concerned with Solheim's legacy, but in this case it's at least easy to make a few comments. I find it amazing that a Norwegian Development Minister does not pay more attention to the serious and systematic violations of human rights and the lack of democracy taking place with one of our important partners. I also find it amazing that, in this debate, the Council of State Solheim once again draws the parallel to China, all the time the same Council of State on repeated occasions has said that the foremost personality of the last century was perhaps Deng Xiaoping, nor any democrat. The pattern that begins to form here is that the Council of States is very strong and competent in things that traditionally stand at the heart of the Right, economic development and the importance of economic development, and here he has full support of the Right. At the same time, however, the Council of State is very weak in the lack of democracy and the leeway of democracy. Let me take some clear differences between the Right and Today's Government. With a new policy where the right is making the premises, it would be inappropriate to sit still in Norway and almost accept what is happening in Ethiopia, as it appears to be today's policy. We will never accept the fact that people are kept in neither poverty nor a politically-bound poverty and lack of rights because the ruling party and the entire state apparatus are infiltrated by one political party. We also see that international donorplinks are going to hold that party by power. Unfortunately, it seems that the government has fallen to mild rhetoric instead of going in and making actual changes. If one goes back to the period 2004–08, there was a doubling of aid to Ethiopia. There was a period in 2005 when the problems grew up. There were 200 demonstrators who died, and 30,000 people were imprisoned because there was a strong dissatisfaction in Ethiopia with how the elections were conducted, and not least how the rights of the population were protected by Meles Zenawi and his regime. This led to the World Bank and other donors dropping state aid. The problem was that it took a very short time before other programs were found to channel the money through, and the money went to district support under programs like Protection of Basic Services. Once again, we see that Erik Solheim has strong international allies, because here the Council of State used the same arguments that are used internationally, namely that it is so important that Ethiopia is involved in achieving the Millennium Goals that we have to be responsible and grant large sums of money, even if we see that Norwegian and international donors are actually being used to suppress the population. I think there's every reason to read the report from the Human Rights Watch "Development without Freedom: How Aid Underwrites Repression in Ethiopia" with the argus eyes. Yes, I'm not a moment in doubt that something could have been taken out of context, something could have been done even worse than it is. But the sum of what is described is a dictatorship, a very strong dictatorship. We cannot disagree with that. I want to get something out of the report. It says, among other things: that the government uses donor resources and assistance as a tool to support the state-supporting party. Yes, there is little disagreement about that. The fact that the EPODF, the State-aided party, has strong control over the entire state apparatus and public structures, is of little or no opinion. Rural residents do not have access to aided programmes if they belong to the opposition. I also got this from other sources, and that's the same thing that we saw so heavily used in, among other things. Zimbabwe. Food aid: Yes, once again, 10-20 pst. by the population, food aid is needed. The school system has been used for batch indoctrination. Ethiopia is a good example of how policy will change if Right comes to power at the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e773	Let me first thank the interpellant for her clear and strong settlement of human rights violations – in this case in Ethiopia – and the ongoing willingness to hold the Council of State responsible for how he manages the trust he has on behalf of the Storting, both economically and politically, in this country. Then I must probably also allow myself to ask, when it was now announced with bravour that the policy will change if the Right comes to power: how then? I would like an answer to that, because I have not received an answer to that in this debate. It is that Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world. The development is contrasting. We are pleased with the economic progress and improvement of school coverage, vaccine coverage and the food situation. On the other hand, the national authorities are showing dictatorial moves. Corruption is not effectively combated, there are clear signs of abuse of aid, and there are clear evidence of violations of human rights. I don't go into the individual reports, but I just assume from the Christian People's Party that the Council of State takes on the outrage when he talks to his Ethiopian colleagues at a high level, and does not list around on rubber soles and is most concerned about the political role that this country can play in the region, which is important, and in international climate dialogue, which is also very important. It must be possible to have these thoughts in your head at the same time. To draw the conclusion that the representative Myhre was in the process of doing, but that the speakers of the Right have not yet made, namely that we are going to cut the aid to Ethiopia, I think it is completely wrong. The same number of stories can be told and the same number of reports on how the aid works in Ethiopia, and I have been out in the field and seen it in practice as regards the development of the local public health service. I think it'll be the wrong policy in the situation we now know, going to the step of closing the wallet for Ethiopia and thus closing the channel for cooperation with this important country in Africa, where so many millions of people are still living in poverty and suffering humanitarianally. So what are the dilemmas we face? It's a humanitarian dilemma. We have a moral obligation to help millions of people who struggle for life and to lift large groups of people out of poverty by promoting the country's economic development and helping to smooth out. However, those who express harsh criticism may be at risk of countermeasures that limit the ability to help innocent victims. Then it's the big political dilemma. Ethiopia is an important strategic ally in the fight against Islamic militant groups on the Horn of Africa, for example. in Somalia, and risking the relationship with the authorities of Ethiopia may weaken the ability to succeed in that fight. We have to be honest enough to say that and to admit it. Such dilemmas challenge wisdom, not light solutions. We must not decorate the reality and talk down seriously, as I may have thought the Council of State was a little involved in its previous response to the interpellant, when she took this up last January, but where he was this time somewhat sharper at the edge. We have to choose other channels to get the job done, but we don't have to stop showing solidarity. It would be to fail fellow humans in a difficult situation. I have a suggestion. It cannot be promoted in this debate, but it can be promoted verbally in this way. Now, when the Council of State has announced that we are going to enter into a structured political dialogue with Ethiopia, I think it is appropriate to set up a human rights dialogue with Ethiopia. We have, and, with some other countries, which are both recipients of development assistance and co-operation countries in important policy areas. I want to challenge the Council of State to respond to whether he can imagine developing this structured political dialogue into an MR dialogue of the same brand that Norway has had with other countries, and which I think can be a way to take this further that does not strike the hands of the poor, but at the same time does not mean that we are playing with the sordin in terms of the most serious violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e789	I would like to thank you for the good input in the debate, but I would like to open up to say that I am very strongly responding to the fact that a government council in Stortinget is standing and saying that a representative is throwing out ‘unsolved allegations of something as serious as human rights abuse without thoroughly investigating them’. So just in the case of the forced displacement case, the BBC, Human Rights Watch, Oakland Institute, Survival International, is just four of those who point out the exact same thing: gross and systematic violations of human rights in connection with the forced displacement of 1.5 million people. That it should be to throw out the statements about something so serious without checking first, I take a great distance from. I believe the Council of State should also do that in its closing post. It must be allowed to hold a debate in which criticisms of the policies of the government and the Council of State are presented, without it being interpreted as unsubstantiated statements. I suppose the Council of State does not believe that Jan Egeland is dealing with loose claims and hesitations that cannot be further documented. So I agree with those who say that there are many positive developments in Ethiopia. But when we're going to enter into a so-called structured political dialogue, I think it's actually also important to know what we're going to do with that dialogue. Where do we want the dialogue? What are we going to do? When do we say that the limit is reached? When do we say that the human rights situation has become so problematic that we can no longer defend having the relationship we have with Ethiopia today? Maybe we'll act in a different way, through other channels, like this. The Swedes have done so. Shall we continue to provide state-to-state assistance, or shall we operate more through organisations like Doctors Without Borders, Red Cross, etc.? In Sweden and Finland, they are now creating a whole new approach to their development policies. In Finland, they are now putting human rights at the centre of all development policies. In Sweden, Gunilla Carlsson has created a freedom manifesto that is to be a guiding principle for everything that is done on the development side. That's an intrusion angle I would like Norway to have. When we talk about changing development policy, it is about concentrating both thematically and geographically, and not least on emphasising both freedom and human rights as fundamental to future development. It is not that a development in which people get better economic conditions and better social conditions is something that governments can hide behind while at the same time committing systematic violations of human rights. I believe that the government really does. I believe it is important to examine in more detail the claims – the many claims – that have been made, from many different actors, many different countries, and see if it is actually such that these violations of human rights continue to increase in strength. That is what I expect the Council of State will help to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e803	Let me first remind you of the question that was the basis for this debate: ‘But the Council of State continues to believe that Norway’s view of the human rights and democracy situation in Ethiopia is in line with the opinion of, among others, the European Parliament. The United States and the EU?’ So now I have crystal clear, without any doubt, documented that yes, that’s the case. Then the interpellant goes on with a whole lot of other questions. But let me just say again: we are in line with other Western countries. Yes, more than that, it's like the British Conservative government grants 14 times – I repeat 14 times – more assistance to Ethiopia than the Norwegian Red-Green Government. There may be a warning about slightly lower language usage in the allegations of looking at human rights violations, when one’s British party traps believe that Ethiopia is such a major development success – not a human rights success, but a development success – that it wants to make it the most important country for British aid. But I see that debate has been put to death through this debate. I also notice that the interpellant does not go further on that track in any further posts, because that debate has been put to death. Then we come to the much more important debate: what do we do with the significant human rights violations that are taking place in Ethiopia? It will then call a political dialogue with Ethiopia – which must include a significant human rights component, otherwise it will not make sense – as an important contribution to addressing all these issues in a sensible way with Ethiopian authorities. But as Dagfinn's high-pitch pointed out, the world is more complicated than you'd like. Ethiopia is crucial for conflict resolution in Somalia and Sudan. Ethiopia is a major development success with rapid economic progress. Ethiopia is a major climate leader in Africa, but Ethiopia also has significant human rights violations. Then, in the position in which Norway is in – the same with the United States and the United Kingdom – we have to try to find out: how can we have an impact on reducing human rights violations, while keeping all the other positive parts of dialogue with Ethiopia? There is no doubt that there is talk of material human rights violations. We've taken that up, we're going to keep recording, and that's going to be an important part of the dialogue. I would like to end by saying that both Peter N. Myhre and Dagfinn Højbrätten are bringing something very important forward. I think Ethiopia now is not the third largest, but the second largest country in Africa in terms of population. It's one of the countries in Africa that have the most poor, it's a country with extreme poverty. That's why Ethiopia in many people's eyes is synonymous with e.g. Bob Geldofs and Bonos' collection for starvation victims. So it's a period that now all points to is in Ethiopia, because the country has come out of this absolute extreme poverty. But there is still one of the poorest countries, where most people suffer, in a highland area where it is also called. So there is every reason to show solidarity with the poor people of Ethiopia, in the way Dagfinn Højbrätten speaks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e814	The President will remind the Council of State that the British Government is a coalition, and that characterizing it as conservative, therefore, is not entirely comprehensive. The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e832	The background to this interpellation is that the Progress Party has been contacted and made aware that there are more people who want to establish or expand Bible schools and who have been denied this by the Education Directorate. This has led to considerable unforeseeability and uncertainty for schools, and they therefore need clarification of government policy in this area. I hope that the Council of State will provide a clear answer to what is government policy in this area, so that the schools know what they have to do with, and thus avoid spending a lot of resources on discarded applications and complaint handling. I will use two concrete examples of Bible schools that have been refused: One is the Intro Church, which belongs to the Pentecostal movement in Norway, and has congregations in several places in the country. The intro school wants to start Bible school in Stavanger. The reason for the refusal, given on 21 November 2011, was only a lack of evidence of tied contribution capital to the school. This has been sent in documentation later, and should therefore be in order. The other applicant is Fjellheim Bibelskole in Tromsø, owned by the Norwegian Lutheran Missionary Association. They want to increase the number of students to the one-year course they have and to set up a new second-year secondary course. The school has approved the curriculum and the economy, but was rejected in a letter dated 15 December 2011. Common to both schools is that they have received a refusal from the Directorate of Education, and the reasons for the refusal are the letter of 16 February 2011 received from the Ministry of Education. The letter contains, inter alia: four new concrete criteria to be used in the examination of applications before authorisation. This is a significant change compared to previous acceptance practices of the Bible school offering. The main changes to the letter are as follows: the needs of society for the provision of the school labour market for training the demand for the school provision in question among those applying for the available capacity in similar schools; These criteria are met and well justified by applicants in letter of complaint to the Directorate. With regard to the needs of society and the labour market for schools, it is noted that many congregations and Christian organisations choose leaders and employees — both volunteers and employees — who have a relevant education. This shows that society needs such a school offer, and it is confirmed by statements from churches and Christian organisations attached to the applications. In addition, there are statements from companies, organisations and associations that say something about the relevance of Bible schools to employment in the workplace. With regard to the availability of facilities at similar schools, the ministry may seem to be unaware of what a Bible school is and of the diversity of the Bible schools, both in terms of its value and its characteristics. Schools address young people as well as adults who need and want to learn more about Bible values. This need has increased since the reduction of Christian education in primary school. It is also true that many students at a Bible school have backgrounds from other educations and professions, but they attend Bible schools in order to enhance their competence in Christian communication, youth work, environmental work and mental health and to be better qualified for volunteering in congregations and Christian organizations. Both schools are told that there has been some available capacity at other Bible schools and that those who want to take advantage of the school offer have to leave to get school places. Furthermore, following a discretionary assessment, the directorate finds that the requested offer is not needed to a sufficient extent. The new criteria used to justify the refusals are in stark contrast with those stated by the Committee at that time in the context of the amendment of Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act, which deals with Bible Schools: ‘The Committee considers that it is important for school curricula to be approved in accordance with criteria which address the characteristics and values of each school. The Committee considers that the school's curricula should implement the statutory objective, be designed according to the specific nature and value of each school and be at the level of primary school education.» This note shows in a good way understanding and respecting the values of the different religious communities and what their need to provide different school services at their schools means. Nevertheless, the letter sent by the Ministry specifies the following: In the light of the foregoing, the Ministry requires a somewhat stricter recognition practice under Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act than was the case under deleted Chapter 6A of the Private School Act. Just before Christmas of 2011, ACTA received Bible School, which is run by the IMI Church and is the only one of the country's congregation Bible schools within the Norwegian Church, including in its complaint against the rejection that had been given according to the new guidelines. Against this background, there are several schools that now have the hope of obtaining the approval of their applications according to previous practice, where the Directorate approved the curricula and took into account the different needs to be met by the schools. Now I hope that the answer from the Council of State contains clear clarifications as to which approval rules apply, so that the schools know what they have to do with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e889	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to explore what is going to be the rules on the grant to Bible schools, in the light of the interpellation of Bente Thorsen. But I just have to stress at the outset that the two concrete Bible schools that she mentions in her article are schools that have initially been rejected by the Education Directorate, which are anchored. The appeals are lodged in the Ministry of Knowledge. It is not possible to apply complaints concerning single schools from Stortinget’s pulpit. They will receive an answer when we have gone through the complaints. So let me do it on a slightly general plane. New Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act replaced Chapter 6A of the Private School Act in the summer of 2010. In order to say something about current practices, it is appropriate to take this as a starting point. The old chapter 6A covered about 50 different types of schools. It was Bible schools, art schools, music and dance schools, etc. Some of the schools offered secondary education, while others were in upper secondary school. This was the background to the decision of the Stortinge, as part of a legal cleanup, to repeal Chapter 6A from the summer of 2010. Many of the former Chapter 6A schools passed to the Law of Vocational Education, where they retained the grant. The remainder — about 30 schools — was transferred to new Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act, which came into force at the same time. Here the schools have the same framework conditions as they used to have. The Adult Education Act Chapter 4 covers schools with curricula at the level above primary education. However, schools do not have formal competence in the sense of the Training Act, and they cannot therefore be equated with regular secondary education. Chapter 4 schools define their own professional and/or value base. This is stated in the law. Thus, among the schools operating under Chapter 4 — not least among Bible schools — there is considerable variation in curricula. Chapter 4 provides an opportunity to approve new schools and operational changes in existing schools. The qualification provision is discretionary — it ‘may’ be accepted for new schools ‘after an overall assessment’. Even after the old chapter 6A, the approval home was discretionary and not rights-based. I would like to stress that the possibility of obtaining recognition under the Adult Education Act Chapter 4 is real. At the same time, it has been important to provide for the most robust and consistent administrative practices from the outset. In order to achieve this, the Ministry sent a letter in February 2011 to the Education Directorate. Here are several criteria to be included in the discretionary assessment. The need for school is a central moment, deepened by: needs of society for the school offer labour market training demand for the school offer available available capacity in similar schools In particular, the interpellant draws attention to the point of availability at corresponding schools and points out that many Bible schools have very different curricula. That's right. Therefore, not a Bible school and a Bible school are necessarily the same. In this context, I would like to point out that the ministry before Christmas dealt with a complaint from ACTA – IMI Church Bible School. There was a request for an increase in the number of student places on existing school services and the recognition of the curriculum for a new 2nd year offer. The Education Directorate had rejected the application, including: justified on the availability of capacity in equivalent schools. The Ministry reversed the decision so that ACTA – IMI Church Bible School was included in the complaint. This is a question that the representative Dagrun Eriksen of the Christian People's Party has also raised with the department, and I sent an answer to that enquiry yesterday. So this is a theme that more people in the Biggest have been concerned about. In the appeal decision in which we converted the Decision of the Directorate of Education, the Ministry made it clear that when deciding on the availability of capacity in similar schools, it is necessary to look at the religious profile of the applicant school in comparison with the religious profile of the free Bible school(s). If the profile/teaching plan does not coincide, existing schools will not be a real alternative for potential students at the applicant school. I think this is the core of the matter, because this is where you can evaluate the offers at different Bible schools against each other. The decision of the Ministry in the ACTA – IMI case provides for clarification of the letter to the Directorate in February 2011 and will normally guide similar cases. The Adult Education Act Chapter 4 has been active for a year and a half and administrative practices are in the process of being settled. I can assure the interpellant that all applications – both for the approval of new Bible schools and for operational changes in existing schools – will be handled in a proper and good manner by the Education Directorate, as the first instance, and the Department, as the Board of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e932	I just have to apologize and say that I think the Council of State didn't have much new to come here. She had a thorough review of the new Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act. I fully understand that we cannot handle complaints from Stortinget’s pulpit – I understand that and respect it. I still think it might be a good idea to be a little clearer on which criteria underpinning the approval of new Bible schools or existing Bible schools. The fact that the Council of State places great emphasis on the discretionary use of the new criteria in the event of an authorisation or refusal does not help to make it easier for applicants — when the criteria can therefore be used again in a discretionary manner. I think most people will respect and understand that if two schools have a similar value base and content and are reasonably close to each other, so that as many as possible in all age groups can use the schools, it's okay that there's one school. But if you want to leave e.g. Kristiansand — who has also not received an answer to her application for Bible schooling — to attend similar school in Tromsø may be able to help make it difficult for people to attend Bible school. I had hoped that the Council of State would have been a little clearer, but we'll see if there'll be any more input into the debate, ideas that can explain to the Bible schools the criteria they have to deal with. I also previously had a question to the Council of State on the matter of Bible Schools and changing criteria. On that question, I received the same answer as the Council of State referred to today. It will be interesting to know if there are others who have received a different answer to their question to the Council of State – an answer so fresh that it arrived yesterday. It could be a positive news for these schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e941	In the case of Bible schools — all types of school provision — it is not unreasonable to have criteria based on the needs of society for school provision, the needs of the labour market for training, the demand for school provision and the availability of facilities in similar schools. However, what was a challenge in dealing with applications from Bible schools was to assess whether these were schools that had the same religious profile. That's why what's behind the treatment of the complaint we got from ACTA – IMI The Church's Bible School, is crucial, namely that it's the religious profile that needs to be emphasized. I think it makes the Bible schools realize that you can't put Bible schools in bag posts and necessarily compare them to each other, even though they're close to each other, but that it's important to get into what's the religious profile. Of course, it's reflected in the curriculum. It's an important clarification, as I think Bente Thorsen should be happy about, because it's an important signal about how we're going to look at and put practice in dealing with applications and anchors from Bible schools in the future. Now we've changed the way we grant grants – we've changed the law on this – and it's now through the practices we use, predictable for the Bible schools. Then they can know for sure for the future that the faith profile of the school that is applying to be established or to expand its capacity will be taken into account in relation to the Bible schools that have free capacity. I know that those in the target group appreciate that, and I'm sure we'll be able to get a good cooperation on what's a reasonable balancing of school provision in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e950	I am delighted to keep this post on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party on the Stortinget. Our starting point is that the law cleaning that Stortinget did, where many of the former Chapter 6A schools went to the Law on Vocational Education, while some of the others were moved over to the new Chapter 4 of the Adult Education Act, was a necessary change. Chapter 4 schools have wide variations in curricula, and that's also part of the point. Because we also take these schools seriously, we have expectations for them. This means that in the discretionary assessment of approval, emphasis is placed on issues such as the needs of society for school provision, the needs of the labour market for training, the demand for school provision and the availability of facilities in similar schools. The question raised by the interpellant is primarily about the understanding of ‘corresponding schools’. As the Minister of Knowledge has given a concrete example, it is a premise to look at the profile of each school in assessing whether there is sufficient available capacity in other schools when a school is applying to be approved. Religion and religious belief are deeply personal. Therefore, religious diversity among Bible schools is also important. It goes without saying that one school with one religious profile cannot replace another just because both are anchored in Christian faith. We are therefore pleased that this is one of several pillars for the assessment by approval and creation of new sites. This means that we do not agree with the interpellant’s understanding that there has been an inadequacy in the approval of Bible schools. It has also been the case in the past that the approval of new locations has been discretionary. So making judgement-based assessments is nothing new. The fact is that the Bible Schools fill a function and a need that a number of believers have, and our three parties see the need to have established predictable and tidy frameworks, as the Stortinget has through the amendment of the law, and as the Ministry does through the pillars that you have created for the evaluation of the applications. New Bible schools are required to continue their search. They will continue to be taken seriously and assessed against the criteria of the Directorate and, where appropriate, the Department. The schools complying with the criteria will continue to be approved, while those not complying will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e965	The so-called Chapter 6A schools were in many ways a youth in the old private school law, because they covered all primary schools, and they also had these ‘wonderful’ Bible schools, which did not fit into either the private school law or elsewhere. When you wanted to make changes to the private school law, it is easy to find a new ‘home’ for this type of school, which is difficult to define from an ordinary school. They were then proposed to be given ‘home’ in two new areas. One of them is the Ph.D. This has made many Bible schools a reality – they have wanted greater professional immersion in their level of education, and it has been a positive drive for many of these schools. Then there are some other Bible schools that did not want to go that school way, but more retain their distinctive character, and they found a new ‘home’ for them in the Adult Education Act. As far as I can remember, everyone agreed when we dealt with the Adult Education Act, that they should be moved there when the Private School Act was amended. But also the assumptions that lay on the side of Stortinget were – as I see it – the whole Stortinget agreed. Then, as is usual when laws come into force, you have to start implementing new administrative practices, and it has to be a little bit more. The four criteria that the department had sent to the Education Directorate, I believe, were interpreted too narrowly by the Education Directorate both in order to take care of the characteristics of the schools and in order to take care of the two functions that the schools actually have. One is that they have a formal competence in education for Christian organizations and congregations, and the other is that they also have a travesty of their own building of faith, which is one of the special features of the Bible School. The two things were to find their home in a meeting between criteria. It is clear that when the Education Directorate then chose to interpret it so that society’s needs were not also about community needs, it became a result that, among other things, The ACTA school was denied that there was no need for the school, and that they could not adequately document the needs of society, but also that there were other two-year Bible schools. That's why I want to give the government council and department a little credit – usually I tend to crash a little bit with SV in these cases – because they've stood by what they said at the time, namely that when you move the Bible schools out of the private school law, they're still going to have to retain their peculiarity and be approved and developed in the new law. That's why the duck that ACTA got through is very important. It gives new guidance signals to the Education Directorate on how to understand these four criteria. That's why I don't fully understand the inter-pellant's comment to the Council of State, because it's exactly the religious profile in addition to the needs of society that are important to care for here. If you read the anchor from ACTA carefully, you can see that the Council of State and the Department have approved both parts. It is true that there have been other applications and have been waiting, and the directorate has probably wanted to get more detailed guidance on how to interpret this. Once ACTA has been implemented for its appeal, other schools have been refused, but it is a bit because of the administrative insidiousness — so the directorate has not dealt with the applications that have been rejected at these times, after the appeals in the case of ACTA. This means that they have been refused the legislation that was issued in February 2011 and where no detailed description of the four criteria was given. That is why I am not going to take SV and the Council of State and the government that they have not followed up, because I think we are in for a good lead. I understand that many schools are impatient, and that they press against both the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government to get this through. I guess that just shows that there's a need for these schools. I would like to thank the interpellant for further clarifying this legislation, but I would also like to thank the Council of State for the way in which the ACTA school has been treated and which will be an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e980	In fact, I think the Council of State was a bit clearer in its second answer. I think there are quite a number of people who are happy that it is the faith that is to be taken into account when approving schools – that it has to count. But I'm still afraid that it's going to go wrong in view of the school in Stavanger or Kristiansand that is trying to expand or create an offer, that you might have to travel to a completely different part of the country. As the representative Eriksen had in mind, this is important not only for the big community in the usual sense, but it is also very important in view of the needs of the congregations and perhaps also for individuals who want to take a year in Bible school in order to deepen their faith a little more than is usual. So the thing with free capacity elsewhere in the country, I hope I don't get so much emphasis on when it comes to the further acceptance of the Bible schools. And then to the schools that are now waiting for their applications to be dealt with: whether it's due to “transmigration” in the administration or other things, I can't answer. I just get the support that so can be and expect that there is a team in the Christian People's Party saying, who trusts so much that it is only due to «transference». They then have a special responsibility in that case if it should be such that the discount remains with them. The Christian People’s Party has taken part in this decision, and I expect them to take care that the Bible schools are well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e991	I can confirm that the Christian People's Party and Dagrun Eriksen are well suited to this matter, because we have had a lot of contact about it, both formally and informally, in order to make this work with the different criteria, while at the same time figuring out how to define what is a religious profile. So when Bente Thorsen also shows interest in this, I thank you for it, because I think that now through practice we are going to find balances between different considerations that there is understanding among the Bible schools, and that meet with regard to what might be the demand for this. Now it's important to stress that it's not a right to receive a grant immediately if you meet some criteria. It is the case that applications must be handled on a discretionary basis and must be weighed against other considerations. But what I think became demanding at the beginning when we had done this was to have a good enough knowledge of the different religious profiles in different Bible schools. We have now gone into this in more detail, and there is the understanding as it is shown by the complaints received by ACTA-IMI Church Bible School. I think we should be able to find a balanced way of dealing with applications from Bible schools. There are applications, which have been mentioned in this debate, for appeals in the Ministry of Knowledge. It is true, as the representative Dagrun Eriksen also pointed out, that here is the treatment in the directorate that has gone parallel to the fact that we have had appeals in the department. This means that when there are new signals about how practice is to be done through how appeals are justified, it is important for the cases that have already been dealt with and finalised in the Directorate. So with a little bit of flexibility here, this is going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e1002	Then there's case no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e1008	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e1018	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Advance Party and Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that independent evaluations of Norwegian aid projects are carried out.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work actively in the relevant international forums to increase the uptake of independent evaluations in the assistance.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e1048	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-28.ana.ud1720e1149	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
