ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e61	Two permit applications are available: from the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen on leave from 3 May to 7 May to take part in the election observation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the parliamentary elections in Armenia of the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Kari Henriksen from 3 May to 7 May to take part in the election of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the parliamentary elections in Armenia, and 8 May to attend the National Conference of Psychiatric Nurses in Kristiansand On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder countries: Odd Omland For Telemark County: Odin Adelsten Bohmann
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e94	Odd Omland and Odin Adelsten Bohmann are present and will take the seat. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e99	On behalf of Svein Flätten, Gunnar Gundersen, Elisabeth Aspaker, Øyvind Halleraker, Lars Myraune and myself, I would like to propose a new gift for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e104	The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e107	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to propose a representative to set up a three-year vocational training course in the career guidance system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e112	Both proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e126	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e135	The size has, as I know, adopted or made amendments to 174 laws as a result of adaptation to EU law through the EEA Agreement – some to trouble, others to joy, depending on the eyes that see. It must be said from this pulpit that the vast majority of the EU's consumer adaptations have strengthened our rights in many areas. Today, the Storting of a unanimous committee is being invited to amend the 1997 Act on the sale of time-parties in leisure homes – also under the name of the Time-Party Act – which, in my opinion, will give us consumers enhanced rights when buying time-share homes, in the case of holiday clubs, etc. I would assume that many of us have received an outstanding offer to participate in a free-of-charge lottery, pampered at you by generous solders on a beach in the coven, «South». The amazing thing about such lotteries is that you always come out with a win, and before you know the word, you're all of a sudden in negotiations on buying an apartment for part-time use or getting a member of some holiday club. In Europe, the purchase of timeshares, and different types of holiday clubs, have been a problem for a great many people. Meetings with unprofessional actors who, and perhaps still, drive aggressive and misleading marketing have led people into very unpleasant situations. Many say that they have felt pressured to sign a purchase agreement that they later wanted to get out of. Such developments could not continue, and in 2009 the EU introduced a new Directive to better protect consumers in this area. With the new Directive, there should in principle be equal rules in all EU and EEA countries. The new law will give us Norwegian consumers the same rights that apply in the rest of Europe, and it will also protect consumers in more types of contracts than before. Today, consumer protection applies to what goes under the definition of timeshare or timeshare. Now the rules also apply to long-term holiday products, i.e. different types of holiday clubs, etc., where the consumer pays for a booking service providing access to hotels and other holiday products at discounted prices. Also contracts for the exchange of timeshare shares and contracts for the resale of timeshare and long-term holiday products shall now be subject to consumer protection. This is very good for us consumers. It is reassuring for those in a purchase situation to know that the requirements, the information obligation, are strengthened and that the seller is obliged to provide relevant information before the purchase decision. The right of withdrawal is strengthened by these requirements and is considerably extended if the new requirements are not followed. The unprofessionals will be hit hardest. That's good! An important task that remains for us after the decision today is to provide Norwegian consumers with enough information, so that they can prevent as much as possible from getting into difficult buying situations – after winning the big prize in a free lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e156	The current legislative proposal concerns a new law on consumer rights when buying timeshares, holiday clubs, etc. In the law, the word ‘timeshare’ is used for the English term ‘timeshare’. The Act will replace the current 1997 Time Party Act. In Europe, the purchase of timeshares and holiday clubs has been a problem area for consumers – duly described by previous speakers. The industry was told to have many unprofessional actors who were involved in aggressive and misleading marketing, etc. In 2009, the EU introduced a new timeshare directive to improve consumer protection. With the new directive, there should in principle be equal rules in all EU and EEA countries. The new law will give Norwegian consumers the same rights that apply in the rest of Europe. Timeshare purchases are often linked to several countries, and in this way common European rules could benefit Norwegian consumers. Norwegian consumers encounter timeshares primarily abroad, particularly in Spain, Portugal and Greece. Equal rights in Europe can help to increase consumer confidence in the industry, while at the same time allowing traders to compete on a level playing field in the European market. This is also important. This is in order to avoid unprofessional operators having competitive advantages. I have noticed that the committee unanimously supports the government's legislative proposals, and will briefly go through the main points. The new law will protect consumers from more contracts than before. Today, consumer protection applies to the ‘pure’ timeshare. Now the rules also apply to long-term holiday products, i.e. different types of holiday clubs, etc. where the consumer pays for a booking service providing access to hotels and other holiday products at discounted prices. Also contracts for the exchange of timeshare shares and contracts for the resale of timeshare and long-term holiday products shall now be subject to consumer protection. The information obligation for the trader is extended and standard forms are introduced to be used by the trader to meet the information requirements for the consumer. The purpose is to provide the consumer with the necessary and relevant information before the purchase decision. A compulsory withdrawal form containing information on the consumer's right to withdraw from the contract, i.e.: the right of withdrawal, etc. The withdrawal period shall be extended from 10 to 14 days. As a new consumer minister, I am pleased to say that with the new law, the consumer's rights to what we can call the holiday market are significantly strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e177	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e191	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e200	As rapporteur on this matter, I would like to pay some tribute to the former representative of the Gina Knutson Barstad for the work she has done on this matter. The proposal under consideration today shows that we need a fundamental and broad discussion on the theme of family start-up. Although this proposal is not a rematch on the marriage law, which was up in 2008, several important proposals from the proposers are raised in the case. The Committee agrees that this debate is important from the standpoint of societal development, technological development, medical development and general changes of attitude that give us new opportunities. But then it also raises ethical issues related to the reproduction and establishment of motherhood, fatherhood and parenthood. People are enjoying more and more freedom to choose their own forms of life and family, and it is important that we politicians take it upon themselves. In such important debates, the principle of the best interests of children and the rights of children must also be reflected. Children must be guaranteed a good parenthood regardless of the way they live and the sexual orientation of their parents. The proposal for a father strategy for the establishment of equivalent parenthood is to ensure that all children are raised safely and to ensure that all parents have an equivalent relationship with their children. There has been broad political agreement on much of the work done to strengthen the family and promote gender equality in recent years. But there is something we disagree with, and political disagreements also came out a little bit on this matter. I expect that next week we're going to have a heated debate about thirds of parental leave, so that very debate I'm going to leave in this matter. But I just want to stress that we all know that families are different, that they have different needs, and that therefore the family itself decides better than the state how to organize their everyday life best. The proposal mentions a number of gender equality challenges that need to be made visible and solved, and that, in the case of parenthood, a natural next step in gender equality is to make men and women equal in responsibility for children that they place on the world stage. The law must give a clear signal that men and women have the same expectations of responsibility for children. Throughout the whole proposal for a so-called father strategy is the role of father. We then need to ensure that other schemes and welfare services facilitate the participation of fathers and that both parents are considered equally important for the child in the light of an equal parenthood even after a break in life. I can't see that that's exactly what's affected by the proposers, and we know that evolution is such that disputes in the event of a breakup in the courts only increase. This is a worrying increase, and we need to put in place measures that can reduce conflicts that are burdensome for the parties, but not least for the children. The family is a natural, valuable and fundamental element that provides an important framework for children's growth and future. The position of the family in Norwegian society needs to be strengthened rather than the public wanting to make more and more decisions for the family. We must have a society where all adults take responsibility, both men and women. The law shall be responsible for adults. If we put children into the world, we also take on a lifelong responsibility – we know that, everyone who has children. I assume that the other parties will explain their position, but I will go through the proposals from the Progress Party and express our views. Let me start with the proposal to remove the pater est rule, a rule that I don't at all understand that the majority disagree with, and I will challenge them to explain this in their posts. A father should be defined according to his relationship with the child, not according to the relationship with the child’s mother. He's a wise father through a direct relationship with the child, not because he's married to the child's mother. We believe in all other matters that biology is essential, and then we also have to follow up on this matter. All children have the right to know their parents. The proposers have raised two proposals concerning adoption and the importance of father and father responsibility and mother and mother responsibility. Let me underline that the Advance Party in intention supports the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We believe that children get the best growth by growing up together with parents of different sexes. The Progress Party has also said that we want to restrict gay people's access to adoption. One explanation of why we do not support the proposals of the Christian People's Party here is that we believe our own proposal to evaluate the whole law change made in connection with the marriage law in 2008 is the right way to go. In this context, we have promoted the proposal that is available here. We welcome paragraph III of the motions for resolutions. This believes the Progress Party is going too far, and it will also hit heterophilic couples who need help to have children. A lot of important issues are also addressed in point V, which I will come back to in another article a little later. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e240	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e243	There are several issues that lie in this matter, which are interesting to discuss, both when it comes to family start-ups, the view of children, childless, technological development and different views on gender equality. I'm not going to have an opportunity to comment on everyone, but I'm sure I'll be able to find out at first that there's a lot of things that we don't agree with. Most of all, I am disappointed that the Christian People's Party no longer has come when it comes to the question of assisted conception and adoption for like-minded couples. It is only to note that the Christian People's Party maintains a very conservative and old-fashioned line when it comes to the issue of reproductive health and family and life forms. There is often a difference between the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party in matters of family, equality and homophilia. As I mentioned in the debate we had about surrogati a few weeks ago, the Christian People's Party has written in their program that they want to develop the system of assisted fertilization – while one sees in this proposal today that they do the opposite. It would be interesting to see right from the Christian People's Party what they're putting in, that they want to develop the system of assisted conception. To propose to abolish the system of semen donation is not a modernisation of the law, rather to go back in time. But I agree with the Christian People's Party in one thing, and it is that the arrangement is not quite equal when it comes to the vision of women's and men's heritage – notice that I say the man's legacy and not the father's legacy. I actually distinguish between being a sperm donor and being a father. Personally, I think that one should have equalised the system – the same as cells of sperm and egg cells, and allow egg donation in Norway. I thought that the view of being a parent, or a father, is also very clever from the proposal providers' side. A one-sided genetic focus is, in my view, very old-fashioned. In addition, I thought that the proposal asked for a great deal of lack of understanding of what it means to be involuntarily childless. I myself know too well what it means to be involuntary childless. There is not a bunch of grown-up egoists who put their needs ahead of others. It's a legitimate wish to have children, and we have good arrangements in Norway today that give involuntary childless opportunities to have a baby, including a baby. through the use of donors. There are arrangements that the Workers' Party will not reverse. I also react to the use of the term ‘suitable children’. So the definition of a child is similar here to the notion of a seed, which, in my view, is an unusual understanding of that. The proposers also equate the concept of ‘suitable children’ with children produced from own genetic material. I would like to stress that adoptive parents and parents, after donation, experience as much as other parents their children as ‘own children’. For adoptive parents, this experience is also a legal reason why adoption means taking up the child as its own. In their formulations, proposers again show that father in their world is identical to genetic father, and thus implicitly that social hazard, either through adoption or donation, is different, and that these children are not really parents' own children. It is of course quite legitimate to think that all children should have two parents, or that there should be a man and a lady, or that they should be genetic parents. But I think a difficult person can justify it with the best of the child. Having good caregivers, security and stability and being able to form good and lasting relationships is the most important thing for the children. The proposers also equate adoption with making children together, while the sperm donation, according to the proposers, represents a derogation from the main rule. I cannot see a logical reason for this. On the contrary, one would believe that sperm donation, where mother is both genetic, biological and social mother, had more in common with making children together than that adoption has. I mean by this as an example that the proposal lacks both soundness and logic. If this is the case – and it may be that the child’s best interests are the most important things for the Christian People’s Party – then what is the point of, for example, to demonstrate that there is fewer need for semen donation than before? It must be irrelevant how many will be frame, if that is the argument about the child's best that is the point. As my post shows, I think the proposals are sloppy and have very little to do with modernisation and equality. The working party does not want to reverse the amount of time. We are proud of both marriage law and the fact that we give involuntary childless opportunities to have children, whether through adoption or assisted conception. Children who come through assisted conception, or who are adopted, are perhaps some of the most desired children in the world. The most important thing must be to ensure that all children are well and safe adults and parents who are happy with them and who provide good care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e266	I agree with the proposers that we need a fundamental and broad discussion on the topic of equivalent parenthood and father strategy. The principle of the best interests of the child implies that children must be guaranteed a good parenthood regardless of the way they live and the sexual orientation of their parents. It is important to maintain respect for and recognition of different relationships and family forms today. In this context, the Right will highlight the importance of the family as a fundamental building block in society, and we believe that the law should reflect that mothers and fathers are equivalent caregivers, regardless of how the family is composed. Nevertheless, the right considers that there is a fundamental paradox that the obvious discrimination between mother and father in the law and in practical arrangements exists alongside the desire for equal treatment and accountability. The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party, which we are dealing with today, addresses a number of gender equality challenges. There are challenges that need to be made visible and solved. In the case of parenting, a natural next step in the work of equality is to make men and women equal in responsibility for children they put into the world. The law must give a clear signal that men and women are expected to share their responsibilities for children and that other schemes and welfare services facilitate the participation of fathers, as much as their mothers do, in the growth of their children. It is still a goal for the Right to work for more equal parenthood and for mother and father to have equal rights. Right-wing people want a society where all adults take responsibility — both men and women — and the law is responsible for adults. If you put children into the world, you take on a lifelong responsibility. Then you also have to stand up for the kids. Although there has been broad political agreement on much of the work done to strengthen the family and promote gender equality in recent years, the Right believes that today's system with its own quota for father is not the right way to go. Because families are different, they also have different needs. In the Right, we believe that the family is better able than the state to figure out how to share parental leave between parents and for the benefit of the family. It is important that society through parental leave facilitates parents to be with the child. Because all families are unique, they must have the opportunity to share the leave time they want. The right is concerned that more and more children are losing time at home with their families, precisely because parents are more concerned about taking out the same number of days of parental leave rather than taking into account that this is a care scheme for the child. Important questions are raised in this proposal. There are also proposals that are difficult to discuss and that are not least vulnerable. I want to commend the representative, Mr. Wagslid, who in his speech instead explained how difficult it is for too many people in Norway who are striving to have children. I think it's brave to talk about your own experiences. It also shows that we have to deal with these questions with great respect, and we have to be able to deal with how difficult these questions are too very, very many people. So I hope that we get a prejudice-free debate on these issues, and that this is something that the Storting will discuss in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e289	In general, in this debate – and in all debates about children – the best thing for the child must be the child. Obviously, we may have a slightly different view of what's best for the child, but I have a feeling that sometimes it gets too much mixed up in notions that are often old-fashioned, and that at least don't take on the real reality that many children live in. Medical development also raises ethical dilemmas in several areas, whether cancer treatment, foetal diagnosis or care in the final phase of life. I have a feeling that the proposers here are trying in a way to reverse development, and make a policy as if it's possible to ignore knowledge and social development. I don't think so. But the dilemmas remain. I very much agree with the contribution from the representative, Mr. Wagslid, except at one point, and that is in the case of egg donation. There I'm not as determined as she is, precisely because that's a little bit more unclear because you have both a genetic mother, and you have a physical mother -- who has carried a child inside and born it. It's a little bit more complicated than sperm donation. But it's possible that after each landing at the same position, I don't know. The important thing for SV is that this is about the born children and how they feel. And how are we going to make it possible for anyone who wants to have a child? I have lived for quite a long time now, and I have experienced that children who are born – to say that way – in the natural way, with mother and father, are not always planned or wanted, or come in a situation that is particularly good and fortunate for them. That's why I'm very surprised that we're always going to discuss sexual orientation, for example, or whether you're lonely or a couple when you're going to have a baby. It must be the appropriateness of the caregiver — the safety, the willingness to be in the commitment relationship and be there, no matter how it may be — that is important. I'm very surprised that people are constantly mixing sexuality into parents. I've been thinking that is one of the really important ethical issues, that you don't. That's where the limit goes, and not between who actually wants to be a parent. I perceive that those who want to be parents, and who can't get it out of different physical problems, get some of the most desired children in the world. And that, I think, must be the best assumption any child can have. That's why we also think it's very important that we make arrangements so that anyone who wants to do it can have their wanted children. This applies if you're a couple, if you're lonely, or if you live in a gay or lesbian marriage. The assessments made around this are not based on what you have, but on whether you are actually suitable in the parent role and want to strengthen it. Some of the proposals put forward here are quite uncontroversial, but several of them are about to reverse the steps that Norway has taken in establishing equal parenthood. Then, of course, it's about Mom and Dad – where we, for example. have taken very important steps in terms of the papacy issue, in order to make father more important in the life of children than they have now been — but also in terms of the changes we have made in the marriage law, the possibility of adopting and the possibility of having assisted conception. I think this is right, because very many of these children will be born whether we like it or not. Then it's our job as politicians to ensure that these children have equal rights, that all of us others behave and talk about these children as the real children they are, and that we don't through our attitudes – for example. as we see in the matter here today – spreading the impression that this parent is not good enough, because it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e302	When the Christian People's Party promoted this proposal in Stortinget, I had hoped for an opportunity to have a fundamental debate around parenthood and around mother and father's responsibility for his own child. At a time when both social development and medical and technological developments can give us opportunities that would have been unimaginable some major periods ago, it is important to have such debates, because it also raises ethical questions. It's not obvious that we want to take advantage of all the opportunities that technology gives us. For several years, we have given fathers more rights, through the feather quota, through association – a change in the rules of contributions to encourage more association, which was an explicit objective in the process when discussing this. But with rights it must also follow obligations. Today it is still such that the primary responsibility for children falls quickly on Mother. Nor is there any doubt that the condemnation of a mother who leaves the main care of a father or leaves her own children is quite another than if a father does the same thing. Arguments such as being either too young, too immature or not ready for the responsibility of a child are also arguments that are perceived as more valid for a man than for a woman. These are interesting debates and give a slightly different perspective in the equality debate. In my opinion, it is therefore a pity that the Christian People's Party seems to want to discuss questions about Father's duties, but ends up in a completely different debate. The proposal raises important questions, but in my view it does not provide good answers. The proposal leads to a theoretical discussion about the law, whether it completely equates the way you become a parent. The one who gives birth is the mother of the child, and then there is no doubt about who is the legal mother. She is also, in any case, the biological mother — just as the person who recognizes the danger is usually the biological father. But there are some biological differences here that we can't regulate away from. But if the Christian People's Party wants to stand on the biological line completely, you should actually say, at today's technological age, with the possibilities that exist, that mother should also sign a form for being the biological mother. I think that's a direction we don't want. The proposers fear that men in general may feel less responsible for caring for their children because of a sperm donation scheme here in Norway. I think that's a rather weak coupling. I think the few reflect on this in the same way that the Christian People's Party does here in its proposal. The attitude to father, to take care of your own child and take the responsibility seriously, is about attitudes that are created historically, but it is also about your own growth and family. It is probably not the pater est rule that is why we still have a way to go before the rights and obligations of mother and father are at the same level. The Pater est rule has long traditions in our country, and the alternative would be much more bureaucratic. I also think that some people would feel a little bit like an offense to get away from it. Proposalers also ask many questions about what, for example: a semen donation scheme with the robustness of the parenthood. Those who are undergoing treatment and are receiving help to have children have probably thought through this decision and have gone through more than many of those who have children in the natural way. There's a very strong desire to have kids. I find it hard to understand that a system of e.g. sperm donation or egg donation will weaken the robustness of the parenthood, but there may, of course, be many other good reasons for this type of scheme. But that debate belongs to the revision of the Biotechnology Act. Now that we have this sperm donation scheme in Norway, it cannot be said that this leads to men, in general, having reason to feel less responsible for their own children. The whole idea behind the scheme is that the donor has no legal connection to or liability for any children, because being a donor is not the same as being a father. Although this may not be the main objective of the proposers, I would also say that the consequences of many of the proposals and the ideas raised in the proposal will, of course, lead to gay and lesbian couples not being allowed to apply for adoption, and that is not a political direction that I support. It also makes the debate a completely different one. There will no longer be a discussion about the best of the child and the establishment of families with the child in focus, there will be a debate about completely different things – things we have discussed earlier in this big business, and for which there is a broad majority in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e321	Children’s legislation must be based on young people. When the child’s best interests are the most important, what will be the most important child law that can give to adults? The answer must be responsibility. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed a reform of responsibility in child law, precisely to strengthen adult responsibilities and to give all the same responsibilities – women and men. Section 4 of the Children's Act even states that children do not need a father. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes the modernisation of children's legislation, i.e. child law, adoption law, biotechnology law, to make men responsible for young people in line with the responsibilities women have always had. I guess it was supposed to be missing in 2012. In addition, we propose a review of changes in welfare systems that can support an equivalent parenthood. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote. The attitude shows that the Christian People's Party stands alone on some of the proposals. The Progress Party supports three and two of the proposals on the right. The notes also show that although the Right Party and the Advance Party have different views on important fundamental issues, we are united in some of the reflections on the importance of fathers, the role of the family and the development of biotechnology. Nevertheless, we see in the debate that especially from the red-green camp you are not fully concerned with the best of the children, but much more of the adult's ability to have children. Wishing children is one of our most basic instincts and a desire that deserves the greatest respect. However, child law must be based on the best interests of the child. I have to say that I am a little surprised that you focus so much on how much a child is wanted, and on what kind of premise it is for the individual child. I would ask those who talk about it, to evaluate the signal effect of it on everyone affected by it, in different ways. To what extent we are wanted and planned, varies – as we know – quite a lot. In the light of the reactions we have received, in particular from the Workers' Party and the SV, I will have clear answers in this debate. It is time for the Workers' Party to respond to why mother should be more important than father in modern Norway. It's time for the Minister of the Child on behalf of the government to answer why it's so important with cardboard, but not with Dad. The questions are asked by the proposers in the draft representative and by the Christian People's Party in the vote. There is not even an attempt to respond. It's amazing, especially given that § 4 of the Children's Act was part of the package that was celebrated as one of the biggest victories for the red-green project. It should probably make it all the easier to answer simple questions like: Why is it important with cardboard, but not with Dad? Of the speeches in the debate, it is clear that when there are no defence points, attacks can occur in some kind of attempt to hide one's nudity. The Keieren works very thinly dressed for the season. Semen donation was established in the 1930s, at a time when attitudes were accepted that men abandoned responsibility. The offer of semen donation has been the subject of the alphabetical effect. It was claimed that because heterophilic couples received sperm donation, it was discrimination that did not receive lesbians. So we got the same claim of solitude, then of couples who need egg donation, and now we get the same thing in the surrogacy battery. In short, if you've said A, you're going to have to say B. The argument can be said to be offensive, until you realize that after B, C, D, E, and then the whole alphabet. That's probably some of the effect we see when the red-greens are no longer able to say you're against surrogati. The offer of sperm donation has become a right-wing struggle and is used as a break for a development that challenges human vision. Where do you set the limit? To quote the representative Sande, who spoke for the Central Party minority in connection with the extension of the offer of assisted fertilisation to lesbians: ‘As opponents of assisted fertilisation with donor genetic material, I do not want to vote to extend this right further, precisely because there is no human right to have children, but all children have human rights.’ And on the other hand, "My fear is that by contributing to the creation of more and more children by assisted fertilization, whether we want it or not, we are helping to push our society towards the sorting society." The Christian People's Party challenges all the parties in the Chamber to a broader and deeper debate on children, parenting, human vision and equivalency.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e342	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e345	First, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for this opportunity to take a debate that I think is quite exciting. I'm actually sitting and kissing myself a little bit, because I think there's come up a lot of views here that give reason to reflect a little bit, not least about how society has changed over the years that, among other things, have. The representative, Karin Andersen, has lived. There has been a revolution in how we view parenthood. There has been a revolution in how we view children. My opinion is that that revolution has been for the benefit of our society. I am pleased that today we are given the opportunity to make some principal views of the government on the theme of equivalent parenthood and father strategy. On 17 April the Storting dealt with an interpellation on surrogati, in which the principal aspects of parenthood were also affected. I would therefore like to use this opportunity to repeat that the government's principle of equal parenthood and father strategy must – as many people have been involved in – be based on the child's best interests. This must apply whether in the case of pediatric, parental, adoption or assisted conception. The principle of the best interests of the child is central to all Norwegian legislation, and this principle means that children must be guaranteed a good parenthood, regardless of the way they live and the sexual orientation of their parents and regardless of who their children grow up with. The family pattern, as we know, has changed a lot in recent decades. Family constellations are gradually diverse and often include mine, yours and our children. But the important thing is whether the children are doing well, if they are wanted, whether the quality of the relationships between children and parents is good. The need for a safe legal framework and equal treatment for children is important, and this principle also provided the basis for the introduction of new provisions in particular. the child law resulting from the right of homosexuals to marry and lesbians to assisted conception. It is therefore regrettable that the proposers wish to amend these provisions. I want to add that exactly that moment when the Storting passed common marriage law, one of the strongest moments I've ever had in this room. The government aims to give women and men the same real opportunities. Gender equality must take place both in the workplace and at home. The government is working to facilitate greater participation of women who wish to do so in business, working life and politics. At the same time, we work for men to spend more time at home and with their children, as most want. As indicated in St. reported. No 8 for 2008–09 On men, roles and gender equality, a similar practice in the home and family seems to contribute to more robust living and reduce the risk of a lifelong break. Therefore, equal parenthood and the strengthening of the role and function of men in living together and caring for children are important elements of a comprehensive family policy. Most young children’s parents are currently engaged in taking care of their children in a broader way than in the past. We see a development from a father's role with the emphasis on being an economic provider to feel more responsible for all aspects of the care role. That's great! The Government Action Plan on Gender Equality has provided the most comprehensive representation of policy objectives, strategies and actions. The plan shall be a tool for the implementation and further development of gender equality policies in the years to come and contribute to a good discussion on gender equality and increased involvement among both women and men. We know that men and women who live in equal relationships and who mainly share the same share of housework or care for children, state that they have a higher quality of life than others. There is also less violence in such families. Parents who share the parental leave have more children and break life less often than others. Increased commitment to gender equality in family and work life is, in other words, a win-win situation — it is socio-economically profitable, and it contributes to stable and sustainable living, for the benefit of both adults and children. With regard to the comments on the concrete proposals for legislative changes contained in the proposal for a regulation, I refer you to the letter of the former Council of State of Audun Lysbakken to the Committee of 26 January. I'm going to end up with these comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e366	The Council of State was at the beginning of its speech that society has been in a fragile state in recent years, and that we have a different way of looking at parenthood than what you might have had before. The representative from the Center Party was involved in the Father est rule – that this was a very long tradition, which was difficult to get done with, that it would lead to a much more bureaucratic system. But now it's like this that we're always discussing on the basis of the biological principle: who's father, who's mother? Then it's true that we look at social development and manage to do something with that tradition, and look at parenthood in another way to be able to transform the pater est rule we have today. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council not see that it is now time to look at the biological father and not the one who is married to the mother of the child, as the father of the child?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e375	We've had this question at the hearing. Everyone except one thought we should keep that rule. That's a lot of reasons. The representative Ramsøy was in on a couple of them, among others. that it is very bureaucratic to walk away from it and to test everyone. It is also a matter of someone probably thinking of it as offensive, as the representative Ramsøy also pointed out. Then we also have to ask ourselves if we really have a problem with this pater est rule today. I believe that the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party make this a bigger problem than it actually is, that most families manage to organize quite well as the rule is, and that they are concerned about being good parents for their children, completely independent of the genetics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e382	I am pleased that the Council of State sees the importance of a fundamental and principled debate on children and parents. I'm glad the Council of State recognizes the value of the changes we've seen over the last decades, that fathers are coming on the track to a greater and greater extent. Not least in the light of that, I have to repeat my question in the post that I did not get an answer to, about what I still do not understand in government policy, not least in the light of the Children's Act § 4: Why is it so important with cardboard, but not with Dad?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e387	I really don't understand that question. It is almost striking that there is no one else in this room than the Christian People's Party who understands that question. On the contrary, we're busy with fathers. We're concerned with the role of fathers. Nor is it that my party, SV, or the parties that are part of this government, has only recognised the father role. They have been drivers for the father role to be given a more important place in Norwegian legislation and Norwegian policy. You can just look back at my own story. It was alarming when my own father was born. Today it's almost eye-catching if men aren't at birth. When it comes to taking out fetal leave, we have seen a ripple development — almost a revolution. It's over 90 pst. Which today takes out the dad's quota, and there's a lot of people who want more than the dad's quota. So to say that the father's role is weak in Norway today, I believe it is highly misleading.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e396	It is quite clear that there is a slightly different approach to the issue raised by the Christian People's Party here today. I notice what the Council of State says, that it is a little bit difficult to understand the intention of the Christian People's Party and the suggestions they are making. As regards the rights of mother and father in order to be involved, for example: in the health centre, kindergarten and school, the government is of the opinion that the legislation is good enough as it is today. Here the Christian People's Party emphasizes that there are actually some fathers who perceive it as being unfairly treated, that they are not called to the health center, and the like, especially where parents are shared. What does the Council of State think about Dad's position on these things?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e405	There are some aspects of this proposal that I sympathise with and that I think are good. I think it's great that the Right has an involvement in the areas that the representative of Hofstad Helleland now mentioned. Fortunately, there is also a lot going on in these areas. I've said that it wasn't just too soon that Nav started writing letters to his father too – not just to his mother, so Mother would tell Dad what Dad should do. You turn directly to your fathers. In kindergartens, we now say that both mother and father should be invited to a parent's conversation. We have also given support to these famous father groups – the triple groups – not to standing applause, maybe, but we did so now. It turns out it's pretty popular. So there's a lot of possibilities here, and we can definitely go further in making sure that fathers get involved. It's also about changing cultures, and then it's often like we have to start with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e414	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e419	The Christian People's Party believes that the responsibility of putting a child into the world should be equal for men and women. We want to equate father's responsibility with mother's responsibility. We believe that father's legacy is no less important or worth less than mother's. The debate is not about family forms. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party's desire to give father a greater responsibility, as Mother already has, is met with a great many claims about this. The debate, which is really about the view of modern society on men, also meets with very reactionary voices. Fortunately, the role of father in 2012 has been strengthened in terms of rights, now is the time to talk about responsibility. The articles of the Council of State point to the great development of society in recent years. There has been an incredible amount of progress in equality between women and men, fortunately. Now we can take another step. The draft representative, proposal V, asks for clarification of the mandate of the Committee on Equal Opportunities. To me, it's quite incomprehensible that this doesn't get the majority in this room. Although there are many good intentions behind the offer of semen donation, the arrangement is not in line with the modern view of men, fatherhood and responsibility. The sperm donation scheme encourages men to give up their legacy. This happens at a time when, fortunately for it, there is an increasing emphasis on the need for equality and the presence of father. It's very important with cardboard. Can you at the same time say that it is not as important as Dad, as the representative Øyvind Håbreek asked questions about? Today, under state law, a sperm donor can give rise to up to eight children without having any legal or financial obligations towards the children. Donor children also do not have legal rights over their origin. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has provided that children have the right to know their genetic origin. Therefore, anonymous semen donation is not allowed in Norway. Therefore, when the child is 18 years old, it has the right to information about the identity of the sperm donor. So the child's right to know his genetic origin is fulfilled, but only after childhood is over. It's paradoxical. The Christian People's Party believes that the practice of using donor semen in assisted conception in the long term should be terminated. Where else is there really reason to set the limit for who should be right, and who should not be entitled to semen donation by assisted conception? Some people now believe that lone women are being discriminated against since they do not have access to assisted fertilization at the time of sperm donation. Are we going to end up with all women initially entitled to have children by the state's help just by being an adult, female citizen? The provision of semen donation has helped to trigger a rightstack that challenges society’s view of children and parents. That is why this debate is very important today – it has an important principle side. The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to modernise the law, so that fathers will have the same responsibility for children that women have always had. The provision of semen donation is discriminatory between women and men. Today's Children's Act § 4 a states that a child must have a mother, but not a father. In 2012, we should have a law that says that Dad has the same responsibility as Mother.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e442	Fortunately, we have had a social development in Norway where it has become much easier to be young. Kids are no longer bullied because they are born outside marriage, and kids no longer feel different because they live alone with either a mother or a father. Young people experience much less stigmatisation than before when living with two mothers or two fathers. These changes have come about because Norwegian society and Norwegian politicians have made deliberate choices and have changed the laws that previously led to discrimination against these kids. If we are discussing father strategy, biotechnology law, common marriage law or child law, we need to keep an eye on what's best for the kids. I believe that the majority of the proposals that the Christian People's Party is promoting today are neither about safeguarding children's rights nor giving men responsibility for their children. Nor do I feel that this is a modern family policy or a modernisation. On the contrary, I see many old, prejudiced attitudes attached to the proposals. First of all, the Father Est rule: the reason why the Christian People's Party wants to change the Father's Est rule is that one believes that only fathers with biological connections should be able to establish parents. We disagree. We believe that parenthood can also be established in other ways. Then you propose changes to the Children's Act. This will lead us to remove the rights of lesbian mothers to be mothers for their children. But you don't weaken your fathers' rights for that reason. Chapter 1 of the Children’s Act does not deal with procedural rules for the establishment of parenthood and does not in itself create rights and obligations for the parent-child relationship. Then you have to change the rules. The amendment to Section 4 of the Children’s Act is about a rematch on common marriage law and a lesbian’s right to assisted conception. So you have the proposal on sperm donation, which I don't see as a modernisation either. Nor is there anything that strengthens the rights of children. It makes it more difficult for couples who have a long-awaited desire to have children, and it makes it impossible for assisted fertilization for lesbians. The fourth proposal on adoption is also a rematch on common marriage law. Once again, I experience that the Christian People's Party is trying to represent all caregivers other than mother and father as abnormal. In the case of adoption, this cannot be justified biologically either; it can only be justified that the Christian People's Party cannot accept another form of life. In fact, for the Workers' Party, this is a strong conviction. We don't have an unconscious relationship with the positions we take in this room today. It's actually about fighting for the rights of both lesbians and gays and ensuring that the childless can also have a long-term child.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e461	Although biology and kinship mean too many, it is even more important that kids have good care and a safe upbringing. Many adoptive families and foster families are brilliant examples of just that. But biology and relatives mean a lot. Societal developments show that the importance of biological parenting and its responsibilities is increasing today. This is not least expressed after a break in life, where most mothers and fathers today, even after a break in life, want to have regular association and follow the children as closely as possible. Is a child primarily a gift, or is it a right? Can a health care assistance expect to have a child? Does this apply to anyone or to everyone? As mentioned earlier in this debate, access by others to a service is used as a breakup bar to take new steps into a landscape that, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, challenges society's understanding of parenting, human vision and the view of children. So at the same time, even if a change in the law is used as an argument for taking another change in the law, it doesn't necessarily mean that there are not good arguments in itself to say no to taking another step. There are good arguments that egg donation has aspects that make it more complex than sperm donation. The same applies to the arguments against allowing surrogati. A yes to surrogati would include: be a yes to the exploitation of women. The Christian People's Party believes that there are good arguments that assisted conception should only be given to couples, because it reduces vulnerability to loneliness. The wallpaper is in any case that evolution creates a dynamic where one step triggers the debates and a pressure to take the next. If you have said A, we can – or we must – say B. If the family is increasingly understood independently of biology and kinship and, instead, increasingly becomes a result of the adoption and donation of legacy facilities, it means that it is the state that increasingly establishes family relationships through laws and decisions. It simply raises the question of whether the family lives on delegated authority from the country. For the Christian People's Party, the independence of the family is a fundamental part of our understanding of society. Therefore, we believe that there is a need for a clearer consideration of our view of parenthood, parenthood and fatherhood, the view of equivalency and the view of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e482	It was the Christian People's Party's claim that we do not believe that father is equally important, which made me feel a little need to ask for the word again. For whom is it that Dad is not important, for which we are accused? I believe this is a very designed debate. It is the Christian People's Party itself that makes this a debate about who should be able to have children and not have children – it is not the government parties. How does father in practice become more important with changes to the Children’s Act § 4? These are the practical changes it might be wise to look at – what will this lead to for most people? Will that change in Section 4 of the Children's Act lead to more people taking cardboard? Does this mean that even more people will be present in the growing up of children? No, there's no reason to believe it. What this will lead to in practice is that there will be fewer couples who will have children. Is it the children's best that's in focus then? Is that what it takes to get a better society? Is that what modernising is? The father is equally committed to the father as the mother is to the mother. The big difference is that the Christian People's Party believes that it is the biological thing that should automatically lead to danger and responsibility – Father has equal responsibility, but not the sperm donor. That's why it's very good that the Christian People's Party wants Dad to take more responsibility and not just get more rights. That's why it's also very interesting and a little bit sad that we don't actually find a proposal here that will actually contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e493	The representative, Hope, thinks that the red-greens aren't occupied with the best of children, but that one is just busy with the grown-ups. There are errors, but there must be several things going on at once. Being busy with the best of children doesn't make it possible for people to be busy at the same time? That's why I'm on the edge of being provoked by getting such debts, because that's not right. The Labour Party and the Government Party are busy with the best interests of their children, but this does not prevent us from being preoccupied with opportunities for adults as well. As I said in the debate a couple of weeks ago, it was also claimed by representatives of the Christian People's Party that we had to stop talking about the needs of the Red-Green parties. But if you're so lucky that you can choose to have children – in the usual way – I'm sure I'll believe that there's a choice made by the grown-ups. My point is that it's often the grown-up ones' needs that basically make them have kids. That's why it's also going to be very strange statements. It is also said that this proposal is not about family forms. Sure it does. The consequences of today's proposals would be to influence both forms of life and forms of family that we have in Norway today. And then it's about also talking about that kids who've been through sperm donation don't have a father. I want to repeat what I said in my post: Is it so that adoptive parents and parents with social fatherhood are different parents? It might be interesting to get an answer. I see that the representative Bekkewold will have the floor after me. Then I will challenge the Christian People's Party to answer what they mean when they say in their party program that they will develop the system of assisted conception. The representative, Ropstad, said here that we're still taking new steps. Yes, some of us are taking new steps – not all of us. Today's proposal shows quite the opposite, that the Christian People's Party is more concerned with backwards. But as they have the formulation they have, I am very interested in having a debate on this. I would like to meet the Christian People's Party when it comes to how we can develop the system of assisted conception, and how we can make adoption better. Some, e.g. in the context of the surrogati debate, is the use of surrogati abroad afraid, why not be with us and work for more countries of cooperation, so that homosexuals can adopt? There's an answer to this I want from the Christian People's Party. I think we will have a lot of good and important debates in the future when we are going to revise the biotechnology laws. I just want to stress this: although I have said here today that I am too egg donation, it is not the same thing as being too surrogati – just so we have it clean.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e508	That was to the extent that the representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, made me speak. She stated that this proposal was an attack on the rights of homosexuals, as expressed by the Marriage Act. I just want to make it clear that this proposal is primarily about equivalent parenthood, that is what the proposal is about. It's about the child's right to have both a responsible father and a responsible mother. It's not about the rights of heterofiles or homofiles. It is not about the freedom of adults to choose a form of life or about the acceptance of different forms of family. Respect for, and recognition of, different relationships and family relationships is worth taking care of. You can be a good parent and give children a good upbringing – whether you're in a couple's relationship, whether you're gay, heterophilic or lonely. Everyone should have the same responsibility when putting children into the world – whether you are a man or a woman, a homophile or a heterophile. Being a homophile or a heterophile does not make one a better or a worse parent. "Best of the children" we all say. Most of us agree that it means that children must be guaranteed a good parenthood, regardless of the way they live and the sexual orientation of their parents. We agree that all people are equally welcome and equally worth, no matter how they've come into the world. But when we say 'best of children', it does mean that the children's interests are going to be at the center. Then you have to be able to set some limits for adults at the same time. The Christian People's Party means it, and we're not alone in meaning it. Although we are alone on some proposals and some points of view, everyone in this House agrees that some ethical limits should apply. The parties in this room believe so, even if this means that the State does not always use all available technical means to ensure that all adults can have a child. We have limitations, and it's actually this big deal agreeing on. The issue of the Christian People's Party is a concern about child making if the technique is put ahead of ethics. The purpose of the proposals in this proposal for a representative is to ensure that all children are brought up safely and to ensure that all parents have an equivalent relationship with their children. We want legislation that makes it clear that men and women have an equivalent responsibility for children. That is primarily what this proposal for a representative is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e521	The debate to which Mr Becquerad referred is important. And we'll take that. We take it in the context of the Biotechnology Act, and we take it in the context of the question of surrogati – at all in relation to everything that concerns what opportunities technology gives us, that affects our society, and that affects human vision. This is very important. However, I do not understand why this should be incorporated into the discussion on adoption and on sperm donation – with the premises that the law puts in Norway today. When I hear the representatives of the Christian People's Party argue, I don't get safe. I'm not reassured that it's really the child's best that's the most important thing. You can see, for example: It is difficult to relate to this that we encourage men to give up their legacy. Then I think, isn't it amazing that men are willing to give away their legacy? They have done so since the mornings, in different ways – like it or not – but here they have chosen to do it in organized forms to help others have children, a wish child. It's amazing. So it says we have to set limits for adults. So let's do that. We have boundaries in the law that say something about who is going to get the opportunity, for example. to adopt. This can be seen, for example. that if you are single, there is an additional risk factor that you have to include in your assessment. But first and foremost, the child’s best interests are crucial. If you have care, you can be a good parent. That's the question. The biological principle has been very strong in Norwegian law and in Norwegian tradition for very many years. There have been some good and some bad results. Unfortunately, we have the bad results with literature that documents, which in worst cases has led to a ranking of children, depending on whether they are biologically related to their parents or not. We remember how it was many years ago, when you looked at some children as improper. This is also something we have to keep in mind. In any case, I believe that this is not a major problem in Norway today. I ask whether it is really the Christian People's Party that has a problem, and not others, whether it is the Christian People's Party that has a problem – which they risk transferring to the children. It is important to ask this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e534	I hear that the Christian People's Party says that they are genuinely concerned with the children, and I have no reason to distrust them. They also say that they are not necessarily now concerned with family forms. The problem is that the proposals that have been put forward will work like this. That's why the questions also come up as to whether it's really not what it's about, and not the best of the children, among other things. where the representative Roupstad is to say the importance of biology, and indicates that many parents who are divorced would like to keep in touch with their children afterwards, sail if they do not have daily care. I don't think that's the slightest difference, whether you've adopted a child, or whether you've had a child by assisted conception. The point here is that you think it's just biology that makes these tapes, and it's not. I think that parents like to have contact with their children after a break in their lives, applies just as strongly whether you have been able to make this child yourself, have had to get some help or have been so lucky and have been judged to be an adoptive parent. The big difference in these arrangements is that there is an assessment of the appropriateness at the bottom. For us others who have had children when we wanted that sea, this has never been a topic. I was never evaluated by anyone when I was 19 when I got pregnant. Was I fit? No, no one did it, no one dared do it, and no one should do it either. While those who can't actually have children have to be subjected to this assessment, and then I feel quite confident that that means that we're making the safest assessments we can. Suffering about these are people who consciously over a long period of time actually want a child, it happens that they too break life – you have no guarantee of that. But I am absolutely sure that they have exactly the same need to have contact with their children after a break in life and will do so just as much as any other parent who is responsible. So it has nothing – I think – to do with how this child has become, whether you are heterophilic or homophilic. This is about strengthening our parenting and strengthening the equality of the children. That must be what's in general in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e541	I think that's a lot right in what the last speaker said, but there's a significant difference when we talk about children, parents and frames: what we as legislators are responsible for, and what happens in the world we have outside here. These are two very different things, and here we have to take our responsibility as legislators. Then it is clear that every child should have the best possible growth conditions – in any case. It's interesting to hear that many people say that yes, the Christian People's Party says that it's the child's interests you have in mind, but..., and then there's some well-taught clues that there's completely different things we're concerned about. Let me make it quite clear that for us, it is the consideration of the child that is to be put first. I must also, as mentioned earlier, note that if we put the child first, it is not the rights of adults that are first looked at, but the responsibilities of adults that we first look at, and what is best for the child. Of course, you can take such a debate and say that Christian People's Party or other parties just want to manifest their previous positions in this or other matters. Let me quote Hanne Skartvet, who may be interested in something we have had as a wish for this debate. I quote from World Gang last December: ‘KrF presents something as important as a broad, philosophical debate on the origin of children. As a society, how should we view children's relationship with their parents? Let's put the children's interests first. Then we can leave the adult rights for this time." It's been our purpose, and we're assuming that we're actually being believed in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e555	There is reason at the end of the debate to link some comments to some points that have emerged and that should be answered. Yes, but the proposals will work this way," said the representative Karin Andersen. Yes, but then I ask, what does it mean when solitude does not have the right to assisted fertilization with the red-green policy? Isn't it that the proposals work like this, the same condemnation of those families? Here one has to be consistent, even in terms of its own policy. So to the question from the representative Awake! on the development of assisted fertilization: Yes, we do, because we want to improve the system in order to help more people within the ethical framework we want. If we can help more, it's good, because it's also legitimate to help adults who want children because it's a legitimate wish. However, if there is a conflict between the interests of adults and the interests of the child, adults are forced to leave and the child is entitled to drive. As many people have experienced, there have been huge social changes in this area over the last decades. The fathers are increasingly making up. Not least after a break in life, we see that many fathers – who almost gave up after a break in life, the kids lost contact with Dad – are now turning their lives upside down, and insisting that you should have contact even after a break in life, regardless of whether your mother may have got a new partner and the kids have a new, great social father. You set up, you want to take responsibility. It's the modern one. The importance of biological parenthood has increased – it is modern. You could like it or not. We want to adapt the legislation after this. When it comes to biological matters, it is not essential for the child’s needs to have biological parents in order to have a happy upbringing – of course it is not. But in terms of adult responsibility, we want to be crystal clear that adults have responsibilities when they've put kids into the world. We have not received an answer to the issue of Section 4 of the Children's Act on why it is right to have a child law that says that the children do not need fathers. The representative of Nilsson Ramsøy dismisses it with questions about what kind of practical changes it has. Shall we sit here in the country's legislative assembly and discuss the Children's Act and say that it has no practical meaning what is in our laws? That's why we have the Children's Act, to make adults responsible and to ensure that kids grow up safely. Towards the end of the debate I must say that I am pleased with the recognition also of those who disagree with the proposals, that it is important to discuss these issues in the future. I am pleased to note that we have a slightly different climate to discuss these things today than we had just a few years ago. I think more and more people see the need for a deeper grasp of these questions, and it promises well for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e572	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e586	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e595	The starting point for this case is the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 2 December 2010 which reads: ‘The government asks the government to consider the possibility of creating an exhibition and a possible museum that can make the castle’s many stored cultural treasures available to the public.’ This was a broad consensus in this Chamber, and there is no political conflict theme in that sense. I feel that the proposers show a little more impatience in this matter than the other parties have needed to express themselves. In the wake of this decision, the government has taken up this matter. A task has been assigned to the National Museum and so far there is no reason to believe that it is not carried out in the best way with highly competent staff. There are a number of questions that need to be answered and experiences that there is reason to harvest before any final decision can be made on a castle museum as a fixed museum. The experience is well what is now being gained through the exhibition projects that are now under way and are about to cross the country. First, there is reason to take account of the Castle's own interests. This is an independent institution that must also be taken into account in terms of what one actually wants to make available, in what way and to what extent. So there's also reason to consider in what professional context it's natural to do this, what kind of presentation will be right to do. It's an important experience to bring with it. And finally, there are also questions related to the museum's actual question, which is about professional anchoring in existing institutions, where one also has to assess a self-employment, and possible location for it. These are many questions that require time, and that require not least the background of experience that the exhibition projects that are currently going to give us. I feel that there is a broad political consensus in the Storting on the matter, and that the committee's proposal for a decision in the vote, namely that this is annexed to the protocol, is natural because we will come back to this as the projects progress, and as it would be natural to draw new conclusions or take new steps towards whether and in what way it is natural to turn the exhibition projects into more permanent shows like a museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e613	I would just like to express my support for every word expressed by the rapporteur in the matter, and support the opinions of the representative Thommessen on this matter. The government parties – like the Right – agree that in connection with the 75th anniversary of the King and Queen, we now have six fantastic exhibitions in progress: four exhibitions in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø, and two hiking exhibitions, one for schools and one for galleries and museums. These exhibitions, which will take place both this year and next year, will give us very good experience in how we can make the castle's object collection available to the entire Norwegian people. The great thing about what you're doing right now is that there's opportunities for people around the whole of Norway to take an eye on all the great things that the Castle has. Therefore, we believe that it is now unnecessary and unwise to start drawing any conclusions as to the form and manner in which we are going to make these items available to the public for years to come. We are not ready to say that we are going to establish a permanent exhibition, nor are we prepared to say that it is a castle museum located in Oslo. Perhaps the ongoing exhibition will convince us that we will continue to spread these exhibitions throughout the country. It may also convince us that a museum should not be located in Oslo, but elsewhere in Norway. These are the experiences that we now have to make, which means that we need to spend some time, so that we make this available to the entire Norwegian population. What I think is a little comical in this case is that the Progress Party, the party that has the least money, repeatedly from this pulpit and in this Chamber are engaged in launching major new building projects in the cultural sector. I believe that if you are so keen on it, at least you have to put the money on the table and show that you are actually interested in it when you come to the budget every single harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e620	Norway has many taxes. We have seen that last night when a Munch photo was sold for 690 million. kr, and is very popular around the world. We have to take care of our taxes. We have to get the taxes out of the magazines. The taxes of the Castle and the King must also be made available to the whole nation through permanent exhibitions. Vehicle, art, clothing, gifts, furniture, photographs, documents and many very private items from King Karl Johan's time until today must go out to the people. It is voiced and magnified by the King and Queen to make this available to the public. All of these items may form the basis of a castle museum. The history of our royal family from 1814, 1905 onwards until today is the history of the nation of Norway and Europe. When the hiking exhibitions, which are currently on the road all around Norway, are over, these items and many other exciting objects should be given a permanent exhibition location near the Castle. I don't think, as Gunn Karin Gjul of the Workers' Party said, that it should leave Oslo. Then I immediately think that maybe this is going to end up in the trombones. It's not natural. It is natural that it be associated with the Castle. It's a crisis if the items have to be referred back to dark magazines. The Minister of Culture here has an excellent opportunity to establish a castle museum. The majority have already – as several have said – asked for an assessment of such a museum. But it happens a little bit. Nothing actually happens. We don't get any feedback. I know from other museum debates that it may take many years to establish a new museum. The time of hiking shows now gives us the opportunity to plan and decide to create a castle museum. Many public institutions move out of Oslo. Norway’s Geographical Survey of Beautiful Construction from the 1870s next to the Castle Park can be used – and is available. The building harmonizes with the Castle and is a consequence of the castle architect Linstow's great plan for this area. Previously, the Academy of Fine Arts held up here. There is also room for a modern side building for vehicles here. It's a perfect time to find a permanent place for a castle museum. The Riksantikvar is engaged in many areas, and the role must be to facilitate the use of these old, venerable buildings. I'm going to say that a castle museum with such amazing objects can be one of the nation's most visited museums. It's a story that we have to take care of. That's right: I'm impatient, the party of progress is impatient. Norway has a constitutional anniversary in 2014, where we are to mark the most democratic kingdom in the world. On that occasion, the establishment of a castle museum had been good and possible. This is where the government has to go. This is where the Council of State has to go. I want to promote the minority proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e637	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e640	Earlier in the session, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee examined the notification of the request and investigation decisions of the previous session. The message sets out the follow-up to the request decisions taken in the previous session. In the relevant committee position, it is clear that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs considers that the request decision on the Castle's cultural taxes has been satisfactorily followed up. In my assessment of the proposal for a representative, I have focused on making visible the extent of the government's gift to the King and Queen's 75th birthdays. The gift consists of a total of six different exhibitions that will be shown in the next three years — not just one travelling exhibition, as the draft representative refers to. Now it is the National Museum which, in cooperation with the Royal Court and other museums, has been commissioned to prepare the exhibitions. The six exhibitions will be completely different. They will draw out and shed light on various parts of the Castle's history and treasures. They have in common that they relate to royal journeys, either metaphorically or concretely. There's also a book that complements these exhibitions. The scope of the exhibitions is large in terms of both the theme and the display period. The first exhibition, Royal Copenhagen travels 1905–2005, is currently shown at the Kunstindustrie Museum in Oslo. The exhibition shall be held throughout the summer. So far, it has had a huge influx – a total of 25,000 visitors in just 12 weeks. Only the first ten days of viewing had the exhibition in Oslo visited by 10,000 people. That's a lot. I think it's important to be able to draw experiences from these different exhibitions across the country before there's any lead for the work of a permanent exhibition or museum for the royal collections. Both exhibitions themselves and a subsequent summary of experience will be an indispensable basis for working on what a castle museum will be like in Norway. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with me that the work on the exhibitions will provide good and necessary experience, which will provide the basis for further work on the dissemination of the royal assemblies. We have a lot of exciting you in the royal collections ahead of us, and the debate about the exhibitions, the collections and the stories that they can tell, I hope to follow the exhibitions throughout the country in the next few years. But first I am looking forward to seeing the first exhibition in Bergen in three weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e658	I agree with the Council of State that the gift to the King and Queen is great. I agree with the Council of State that the various exhibitions that are now traveling around the country are also right to show all of these beautiful items. At the same time, we see that representative Martin Kolberg goes high on the track and wants a castle museum in Oslo, and he has to say something about that. What Martin Kolberg is doing is looking forward. What do we do when these hiking shows are over, when we've sent this around the country, which is a very good idea – what do we do after this? Then my question is, what is the Council of State's idea after the water display? Are there still dark magazines?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e665	The answer to that question is that we want to facilitate the presentation of the Royal Collections even after 2014. But I think it would be wrong to start with the concrete planning now, before we have gained the experience that we will have after three years of exhibitions all over Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e670	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e686	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e695	Prop. 49 L, which we are about to deal with today, contains several changes to the municipal law, where the law of the so-called co-municipality is the biggest change. When it comes to the legalization of the joint municipality, there is political disunity, but if the other, less changes, there is no. In the introduction I would just like to mention that there are two obvious errors in the proposal for law decisions that the government party plus the Christian People's Party has pointed out in their comments. When the Progress Party and the Right have not joined these comments, it's not because we're not some people in that there's two obvious mistakes, but it's because we're disunity in the whole joint municipal proposal, and then we're not so much concerned about correcting mistakes in something we're going to vote against. In the case of the law enforcement of the joint municipality, we have a multiple and a minority. It's the government party and the Christian People's Party that make up the plural. There was a slight difference between the government party and the Christian People's Party, but I expect that the respective parties will clarify their views on the matter. We in the Progress Party and the Right have signaled that we want to oppose the proposal for the Joint Assembly. The bill on the co-municipality can be summed up as follows: it is a legislative act of a new voluntary body, a new level of administration between the municipality and the county municipality. The joint municipality shall consist of a joint municipal council chosen by the participating municipalities. The joint municipal council shall have a co-ordinator and a co-ordinator. The joint municipality shall have a co-municipal councillor. The joint municipal council may establish new joint municipal committees under the joint municipal council. The co-municipality may engage in new appointments in addition to the co-ordinator, which is mandatory. As I said, this is a new management level that has similarities with the county municipality before direct selection was introduced there. At that time, the spokesmen of the rural communities in the county constituted the county council. The reason why the Progress Party is opposed to lawmaking the joint municipality is that we think we need less management levels in Norway, not more. So we're a country with a little over 5 million inhabitants, which is a little bit less than half of Great London. Then we should remove the county council instead of creating a new administration level. There are also other things: there is a democratic deficit in this joint municipal model, because the joint municipal council is to be elected by the participating municipalities and not directly by the voters. There are unclear responsibilities: should one, for example: in a conflict of interest be most loyal to the municipality of participants from which one is chosen, or shall one be loyal to the commune as one sits in? We therefore believe that municipal convergence is a better alternative than a joint municipality. We also note that, contrary to municipal convergence, a co-municipality will not have reduced state transfers. So a municipality won't lose weight in entering that model, but a municipality will lose both the small municipality bill, if one is less than 3,200 inhabitants, and the base bill for everyone when one gets fewer. The base estimate is approx. 11 million. kr. Even if there are transitional arrangements here, there is a need to streamline the minimum corresponding to a reduction in income, to get a positive outcome. We believe that if one of them gets to keep the same income in some way, so that one of them doesn't lose anything to merge, it becomes more attractive to merge. It'll be what you're looking at in the long term. We see that there is a need to do something about the municipal structure in this country. So we have 429 municipalities, a number that might have been reduced to less than 100. There is a need to do something, but co-municipalities are not the answer. We believe that the municipal agreement is the answer, and would have wanted us to discuss it in this case instead. The Party of Progress, and the Sustained Right, will therefore vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e721	Yes, the previous speaker was right. The right will go against the law to legislate the joint municipality. Right-wing opinion: this is an unnecessary construction — a law that is made to satisfy two North-Trundelag joint municipal councils, which mainly cooperate on technical and commercial services. The right is not alone in this resistance. The local authority's own stakeholder organisation, KS, has said no to law enforcement. In a study carried out by Municipal Report, 94 pst says. of the municipal councils that they do not consider joint municipal councils to be a current solution. In the same Municipal Report, State Secretary Sandbakken of the Ministry of Local and Regional Government recommends the host municipality model as the best for municipalities that will cooperate. This is right-wing agreement. Why should we legislate a model that hardly anyone believes in – a model that will make voters even more confused about how municipal autonomy is carried out? In our opinion, the Community model is the introduction of a new level of administration. We don't need any more – we need fewer levels of government in this country. In the hearing, the KS, and a large majority of municipalities, clearly opposed the legalisation of the joint municipal model. They believe that it is democratically problematic because it moves important tasks to a new, indirectly chosen level. It almost got the comics cut over when the Municipal and Administrative Committee was on tour in the Nord-Trøndelag and met Levanger and Verdal. Here we were presented to two rapporteurs in each of their municipalities, a co-rapporteur and a co-rapporteur – there were only two people present. In addition, joint municipal and joint municipal councillors are to be employed. We could have been in addition to this bill. There are many questions that can be asked about the democratic legitimacy of a co-municipality. Here we are legislating a model that shifts important tasks to an indirectly elected political body, based on elected local government. How much can one expect voters to be able to follow up on who is responsible and who is to be held accountable if something goes wrong in the joint municipality? How will the other elected members of the local government be informed of what is happening in the municipalities? Or does this become a board for the rapporteur, the councillor and a few elected? The same counter-representations can, of course, be raised against various forms of inter-municipal cooperation. But why should we introduce another model, which will further confuse and contribute to the pulverisation of responsibilities and the reduction of local self-government? If municipalities feel that they are too small to perform important statutory tasks, they should be encouraged to join forces voluntarily. But then, hopefully we have to have a government shift, because this government obviously has no intention of crossing two sticks in order to help municipalities that join voluntarily have something left for it. The other parts of the legislative proposal, on the appointment of the City Councillor, on delegation regulations and other matters, are necessary and good clarifications in the law and are supported by the Right. The joint municipality is an innovation that we do not need. The joint municipal model has no support in Kommune-Norway, except for a few. Therefore, I think it is strange that the government has spent so much time and effort making a bill of 120 pages to legislate something that no demand. I thought maybe it was more important to spend time and effort strengthening local self-government and finding models that make municipalities actually have something left to merge. We have submitted the setting for Meld. St. 12 for 2011–2012, it shall be discussed on 31 May. We see there that so to say all the parties now are positive to voluntary community mergers. Then it is necessary that we get to grips with this and really discuss it, and give the municipalities a toolbox that they can use if they want to merge. It should be a used force and time instead of spending time and forces on a law enforcement of co-municipality – as no demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e740	The joint municipal model originates in some municipalities in the Nord-Trøndelag. There were municipalities that so many other municipalities had challenges that had to be solved, but they did not find the right tools. For the municipalities concerned, the development of the joint municipality was the answer, and they found the tool they needed. And it's true, as the representative of Greece said in his statement, that this is not necessarily a tool that is sought after by many, but for some it could be a tool they can use. So far, this has been an attempt, and it has given us time to gain more experience with such cooperation and time to carry out an evaluation of the trials. When a person meets representatives from the Nord-Trøndelag, something like this. the Committee also gave an enthusiastic and committed message to the representatives when it visited the county on its committee's mission about the importance of the joint efforts for them and that there has been some positive experience. However, for the Workers' Party, this proposal has not been unproblematic. There are several sides, which have been necessary to discuss more in-depth. As pointed out by several hearing bodies, the co-municipality can be seen as a new level of administration. So there's reason to stress that it's not. The Community is a new model of inter-municipal cooperation, in line with other legal forms of cooperation. However, there is reason to point out that it will help to further complicate the governance structure and the way local democracy is organised, and it could make it more difficult for citizens to see who is responsible for what conditions. This extension also raises the question of whether this is a strengthening of local democracy. The joint municipal model involves the transfer of power from the local government of the primary municipality, with directly elected representatives, to an indirectly elected joint municipal government. It is also relevant to point out that municipalities that may choose to invest most of their business in cooperation, and in that way are perceived as a municipality, will not lose state transfers, in the same way as municipalities that choose to merge. We have justly extended the length of how long you will have to keep the state extras, but still municipalities that join together will lose them after a while. However, when the Workers' Party chooses to support the proposal to legislate with the joint municipal model, it is because, in a balance between the benefits and the disadvantages, the benefits are greater. This assessment has highlighted the challenges faced by many municipalities in ensuring adequate skills in different service areas. We are aware that the co-municipal model will not be suitable for everyone, nor do we believe that this will be a very widespread model, but for those who believe that this is the right tool, there is an opportunity to use it and to meet the challenges these municipalities face. However, the crucial element, based on the experience gained by the test municipalities, has been that this could provide better services for the inhabitants of the municipalities for which the joint municipal model fits. And ultimately, the objective must be better and more equivalent welfare services for the inhabitants of all the municipalities in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e761	In the vast majority of cases, there is a positive diversity, including in the organisation of work in Kommune-Norway. Especially if one is happy in local democracy, puts his trust in it and gives confidence to the municipalities in the organisation of work forms, there is every reason to welcome such a model. Indeed, we national politicians should meet local initiatives in terms of organisation, with curiosity and an open mind and feel that it must be fundamentally positive that municipalities come up with new ways of cooperating. The picture of the current situation is already rather fragile, both in terms of municipality size and in terms of cooperation constellations. For me, this is less a problem, more a positive sign that local taste is intact and vital, and that we solve things in different ways around our country. We as national politicians should intervene if this creates major problems for us in acting as national politicians and helping to put national policies into practice. I cannot, with my best will, see that some municipalities in Norway choose a joint municipal organisation, in any way making our job nationally difficult. It is my, and ours, main reason for just being able to provide Norwegian municipalities – I don't think there are many – with an opportunity to choose such a co-municipal model. This is not a new level of administration. It's, as has been said by others here in the past, a new way of doing intermunicipal cooperation, and that's a new and interesting way. One point that underlines this is that the government has said that it should not be possible for a county council and some municipalities to join forces in a joint municipal constellation. It's just going to be the main structure we have today, with three levels of government. Finally, a little comment to the Right and their concern that this creates problems for democracy, that it becomes an indirect democracy and that it is so problematic. And that is what the party says that it has as a major objective to depolitise the entire regional level in Norway!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e772	Today, municipalities cooperate in many different areas. The main distinction in the choice of form of cooperation is between tasks which carry the character of business activities and statutory tasks which involve the exercise of powers. In the case of models of inter-municipal cooperation on non-statutory tasks, there are many to choose from, for example: AS, intermunicipal companies, foundations, cooperatives, etc. For intermunicipal cooperation on statutory tasks involving the exercise of powers, the host municipality model is the only option today. The interaction reform has led to extensive cooperation on these types of tasks, and many municipalities have requested a model that ensures better popular governance. Host municipality cooperation means that one or more municipalities delegate a task or service with the corresponding decision-making authority to a host municipality. It works well in many municipalities; others see challenges in adding responsibility for the service to the politicians in the neighbouring municipality. In other words, voters do not have the possibility to "spark" those politicians if they are dissatisfied with the service, they do not have the right to vote in the host municipality. The central party supports the government's proposal to legislate on the joint municipal model. This will provide municipalities with a new model of inter-municipal cooperation, in line with other legal cooperation models. Of course, it would be entirely voluntary for municipalities to choose this model, in line with the other models. Both small and large municipalities face competence challenges in many different service areas. In particular, the Interaction Reform will lead to extensive intercommunal cooperation on statutory tasks involving the exercise of powers. The co-municipal model will meet the need for a statutory intercommunal model of cooperation in a number of individual service areas. Compared to the host municipality model, the joint municipal model is adapted to cooperation at a broader and more cross-sectoral level, with a significant transfer of authority from the individual participating municipality. For a group of, let's say, five municipalities that have extensive cooperation in different areas, ranging from renovation, child protection, fire, intermediate beds, wages, ICT, and perhaps up to fifty areas of cooperation between the same five municipalities with a corresponding number of administrations, it will now be possible to choose the co-municipal model. The model ensures the popular participation and governance of local government in the participating municipalities, and all the fifty areas of cooperation will be provided by one government. As the experimental municipalities of Inherred and Midre Namdal highlight in their consultation opinions, the joint municipal model, with several inter-municipal units forming part of a single board, helps the board to prioritise across areas and across sectors. Some people have expressed scepticism to legislate the co-municipal model because they claim it will prevent community reunification – I think the opposite is true. If the cooperation in the joint municipality works well, I think many will consider aggregation after a few years. Others have expressed scepticism for the proposal with a sharp contrast to the argument. They are afraid that it will force more municipal mergers. It's not a fear I share. If, after thorough local processes, the municipalities agree to merge, I have confidence that local politicians are entitled to make such a decision. The aim of most intercommunal cooperation projects is to ensure more robust professional environments. The joint municipal model will ensure that local democracy is maintained in that process, as the joint municipal council will be elected by and among the municipal government representatives of the participating municipalities. The centre party is pleased that the co-municipal model is now being legislated so that the municipalities that want it can have a new tool for inter-municipal cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e798	For the Christian People's Party, this has not been such a simple matter. We see the need for closer cooperation between municipalities to strengthen service provision. At the same time, we see that the co-municipal model can be used more or less as a deposit to avoid community mergers in cases where aggregation would actually be the most appropriate. But let me take the needs for the model first. It is important that municipalities and regions cooperate on what is useful to jointly resolve. That is why it is right to strengthen inter-communal cooperation. In several areas, inter-municipal cooperation can lead to better services, more robust and interesting professional environments and more efficient use of resources. Many municipalities face challenges in providing sufficient capacity and skills to provide a satisfactory service, and participation in a joint municipality could provide more municipalities with a better service provision. On the other hand, the increased need for joint municipal councils needs to be seen as a signal of an increased need for reflection and a reassessment of the appropriateness of today's municipal structure. We should not be surprised that the joint municipal model could lead to municipalities that had actually served to merge rather than to establish a joint municipal council. This can be both more resource-intensive and less efficient. Therefore, in addition to facilitating increased cooperation, provision should also be made to enable the municipalities that so wish to have the means needed to merge. I would like to make it clear that the Christian People's Party is volunteering for community reunification. That policy is firm, and that is precisely why the Christian People's Party is calling for more instruments to enable municipalities that want it to merge. I would also like to point out what can be described as the democratic challenge of the proposal. In joint municipalities, the local government is not directly elected by the people, but indirectly elected via the local government of the participating municipalities. The distance between the population and the co-municipality and the co-administration will therefore be felt more. The proposition also argues that the co-municipal model could further complicate the administrative structure and weaken the division of responsibilities. I guess the Council of State is aware of that. But I would like to point out, however, that one must avoid creating a model that facilitates the public to fear or feel that they are not reaching the decision-makers. The division of responsibilities between the participating municipalities and the joint municipalities must be so clear that the population can easily identify who is responsible for what at any time. Finally, I just want to say that the Christian People's Party sees that the joint municipal model can be a necessary tool to carry out some of the statutory tasks administered by the municipality, such as. the many tasks that were transferred to the municipalities at the time of the launch of the Cooperation Reform. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to legislate for a new model of intermunicipal cooperation in the form of a joint municipality, but with the comments that I have then made in this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e813	Our democracy, and especially our local democracy, is not just designed to be an efficient service provider. It shall also provide for the ombudsman role of local politicians and ensure participation in the community – people shall be involved in influencing and contributing to the development of the local environment in which they live. It is about the transparency of citizens in how their local democracy works, it is about transparency and the ability to influence the local democratic decisions that are taken. That's why the values you fight for in local democracy, not just efficient service producers – it's a local democracy where there's a lot of other reasons to do than just have efficient services. That's why the developments we're now seeing, with a lot of inter-communal cooperation structures, are involved in undermining that part of democracy, undermining people's transparency, undermining transparency, undermining direct participation, and undermining the possibility of being representative of local populace. It makes it difficult and unwieldy for local citizens to find out how to influence important decisions in their community. The starting point for the Left's vote today is neither to get an efficient service provider nor to make curls in the system, but we see the system from below and upwards – and seen from below and upwards, there is no reason to establish another model of inter-municipal cooperation in addition to all the models we have today. The major challenge for local democracy is the introduction of all the structures that make it so difficult for citizens to influence and make it so difficult for citizens to participate. Therefore, we should have tightened up the number of opportunities to move power away from citizens and new models and rather have made sure that direct democracy worked well. We should have had more municipal mergers, so that we had an overview of what is working in our local democracy – that we had got clear lines, that we had received clear representations and easier participation than closed rapporteur clubs that we see evolve now. To believe that the joint-communist, as well as to take the big fight against the closed rapporteur's clubs, I see that this is very difficult, as it is also about shifting power away from direct democracy, which we have in a local democracy. I have examples from municipalities here in Norway that have up to 80 different companies in between to organise the production of services effectively, while there are very many who are fighting against community mergers with the same municipalities in order to achieve an effective democracy where it is easy for citizens to have an overview of who has power, and easier for them to influence – and few – decisions that actually relate to the people's opinion of each community. That is why today, the Left will vote against the bill to legislate for the co-municipality, which I think is just to complicate local democracy, not to develop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e824	I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposal to legislate the joint municipal model and the other proposals contained in the proposal. The judicial authorities are divided in order to legislate the joint municipal model. The right-hand side shows that there are arguments for and against the legalization of the model. However, there are generally general arguments that can be used for all inter-municipal cooperation. Most municipalities, regardless of their size, need and want intermunicipal cooperation to solve some of the problems in the best possible way. When one hears the debate in the Chamber today, a few impressions may be that only the smaller municipalities, those who should have joined forces with the neighbouring municipalities, but there is no evidence in what we have, to put it. Cooperation has been used between large and small, medium and medium-sized and large municipalities, and a partner in different fields. We have no basis to claim that there is a greater extent of intermunicipal cooperation in smaller municipalities. That's equal to everything. The tasks that most municipalities report on today's cooperation with other municipalities, and that is mostly done according to § 27, are auditing, renovation, fire protection, procurement, IT tasks – as I said, mostly technical tasks. In addition, many co-operators in power supply are often organised in their own companies or in limited liability companies. Intermunicipal cooperation now appears to be most common in some technical services and administrative support services. This is for the first time small services – what we charge for the operating costs of the municipalities, and how much of them go to such services. Secondly, there are services that require specialist expertise and heavy investments in equipment, especially in the fields of fire protection, IT, power supply and renovation, which are also often combined heat and power companies that require both investment and competence. The care sector and child protection are the other two sectors where we see that there is cooperation according to the host municipality model today. The municipalities have now been given a new major responsibility for the cooperation reform, and it is in this context that the government wants to be able to provide a model in addition to the host municipality model. Paragraph 27, which then fives most of the intercommunal cooperation, is not suitable for that type of cooperation. One cannot cooperate on the welfare tasks there. The Community model is a voluntary provision for municipalities. There is a new model of cooperation in line with other legal models of inter-municipal cooperation, i.e. not a new level of management. There is an alternative to the host municipality model when it relates to forms of cooperation to meet future challenges, and both models are designed to enable and defend the transfer of municipal core tasks with elements of public decision making to inter-municipal cooperation. In this way, both the joint municipal model and the host municipal model fulfil one of the same objectives. Nevertheless, the co-municipal model is to a greater extent than the host municipality model adapts cooperation to a broader and more cross-sectoral task area. In this way, this model may be suitable for cooperation, e.g.: in the field of cooperation reform. Therefore, the co-municipal model is also an important addition to existing models. Then it must be up to the municipalities themselves to weigh the benefits and disadvantages of the different models when cooperating on different tasks. The government and I have confidence that the municipalities are doing well. In the proposition, the government also proposes new rules for a strengthened local democracy. The rules shall ensure that all local government manages the delegation rules at least once in each electoral period and that they decide who they wish to make a decision on matters to be dealt with by the elected body. It's supposed to make the local government aware of what kind of decision they want to keep themselves, and what they think the administration should take of decisions. Since we know that the setting of matters premises the debate, it is also important that the local government is aware of who they want to make the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e851	If two municipalities, e.g. In general, 2000–3 000 inhabitants are able to merge, with a small amount of government revenue being reduced. One will lose two small municipalities, and one will lose one base – a total of 21 million. kr. per year. And then it's just enough to compensate you for 15+5 years, but after that period is over, it's going to have to be more efficient for at least 21 million. kr to get better results. If, on the other hand, these municipalities are part of a joint municipal model, they will not be reduced. Then one keeps the same income from the state. Therefore, the feedback to us is that if you're going to save money, you're going to be part of a community model, even though it would be most sensible to start a municipal merger. Then my question to the Council of State is: why is it that two municipalities, between 2,000 and 3000 people, who join forces, will lose 21 million. kr per year, while those included in a joint municipal model do not lose an ear?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e858	The small municipal council, which is set up against the smaller municipalities – 157 municipalities get small municipal councils in 2012 – has been set up as an additional contribution to the municipalities that have less than 3,200 inhabitants. It is based on regional policy considerations and the objective is to ensure the level of income in small municipalities – therefore the limit on the population. Now I have just met the spokesman in the newly merged municipality of India – there are two small municipalities that have merged. They've kept the divisional approach for 15 years, with a decline over five years, and they've made good plans for how both of the former municipalities should be vital communities in the future as well. I hear some talk about what tools you need, but it was quite absent in the conversation with the spokesperson, who felt that the government has arranged for it to be voluntary, that there are good opportunities for those who want to join together, and that a very local one.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e867	The centre party likes to present itself as a warm defender of local self-government. It also states that it is the municipalities that are in many ways the root of democracy, and the municipalities that should have a strong influence on the way in which the municipal sector is also designed. Then I am a little surprised that when a unanimous board in the KS has said no to the law of a joint municipality, however, the centre party is in favour of this law. It surprises me, but I realize that there are other reasons, and then it's possible that I should ask the question, because Navarsette herself put up with it: the community must therefore be the way the municipalities should cooperate on the cooperation reform, as I understood the Council's answer. Is it, therefore, that the co-municipal model is now being legislated, so that someone then has to have a body to deal with the Co-operation Reform? Wouldn't community reunification have been a better way to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e872	It is up to the municipalities themselves to choose if they want to merge. There's nothing to stop it. On the contrary, the government has made it easier to merge municipalities today than it was when the Right put in government. So I don't understand the constant attacks on the government for that, because we've made it easier. It's because it should be real possibility to choose locally. If we had ordered the municipalities to use the co-municipal model, it would probably have been the Center Party against it. We don't. We put a tool in the Toolbox, such as: – as I said – can be a possibility associated with the co-municipal model, where there is cooperation on relatively complex services compared to what one has talked about in the past. There is not much cooperation in the welfare field - almost not. There's a little bit of child protection, I think it's good. Child protection may be a good thing if you work together on it. As I said in my post, the cooperation between municipalities is completely different, and it's not just small municipalities. There are as many municipalities working together as there are small ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e879	I pointed out in my speech what could be described as the democratic challenge of the co-municipal model. In the joint municipal council, people are not directly elected, they are indirectly elected via the participating municipalities, and the distance between the population and the joint municipal council and the joint municipal administration may feel somewhat long. The proposition also argues that the co-municipal model could further complicate the administrative structure, making the division of responsibilities less complex. What I'm asking is, how will the Council of State ensure that the joint model does not lead to local democratic deficits?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e884	Before we started working with the joint municipal model, I went to Finland and gave some guidance on how they worked there. There's a well-tested model, which you've been using for a long, long time, and there's also a more extended model than the one we've presented to the Stortinget, which is somewhat more restricted. I think it's right, as we also write in the proposition, to be clear that there are some disadvantages in the co-municipal model that relate exactly to the area that the representative is dealing with, and that must be made clear to the individual municipality when entering into that co-operation. But what I think is good is that there should be people from the local government, with a delegation from the local government, and obviously also leads to what individual representatives should do on that board, so I think it'll be taken care of. But it is an obs point, on which the individual local government should both be foreordained and discuss carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e889	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e894	In the opinion of the Right, the proposal of the Council of State to which the majority of the Committee has now agreed is, in fact, a desire to introduce a municipal innovation that is not needed. That is simply the answer to a question that has not been asked, which no one has asked. It is also remarkable that, when you manage local democracy, you are not able to put aside a proposal that many have pointed out the weaknesses, including KS on several occasions – very unambiguous and with overwhelming support. But worse than that, the idea of the community contributes to confusion about the political responsibility of elected representatives towards their voters. The Commune will become an over-communal with over-politicians, but unlike the politicians who have appointed them, these over-politicians are not responsible for the voters. The electors will not know their trust people in the joint-communist community, and one can certainly say it the other way, that the joint-communist politicians, who they may be, will not know who has chosen them either. You've broken the line of responsibility between elected representatives and voters. The ability of the voters to place responsibility in the right place will be poorer if they do not know who to blame them. Not only is it appropriate to confuse voters, but innovation also helps to create a basis for duplication of administrative functions in the areas of cooperation. The municipality delegating to a co-municipality must use several times with time and effort to control the use of delegated powers. Furthermore, there could be a solid basis for conflict of competence due to lack of competence between the old level, the primary municipality, and the new level, the joint municipality. So it's going to be a new level. So, as was said here, it shouldn't be a new level, because it was voluntary to introduce it, but it's actually going to be a new level, no matter how it is. Thus, the co-municipality in demarcated areas does not provide any added value in addition to the number of types of companies already available for those municipalities that wish to cooperate in demarcated areas. You have a share type if the municipality is cooperative, you have a share company if the municipality is more business-oriented. These are corporate forms that you know well, and the voters also have an idea about. So I would say, like the Christian People's Party, that the community – as a third disadvantage – can derail from natural and voluntary community reunification. Larger units would spend less money on administration. The taxpayers had earned it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e905	I think it is important to distinguish between what we need to think about the co-municipalisation of Norway or not, and whether we want to give municipalities the opportunity to enter into such co-municipal partnerships. When Trine Skei Grande says, "See from below and up, there is no reason to do so," there is an opinion that makes me react a little, because we note that there are some who are perhaps more than us sitting on the Stortinget, who have the opportunity to see things from below and have come to the conclusion that they want to cooperate in this way. Then we're going to be careful here at Stortinget saying that we represent a bottom-up perspective and come to a different conclusion than the single municipality that's been out there. Corresponding to Michael Tetzschner, who says, "There's no need for it." Well, there's someone out there who's seen that there's a need for it. Then I think the few municipalities will want happiness from us to try just a new way of working together, and especially from all of us who are very concerned that the municipality of Norway either needs to restructure itself or to work netally in a closer and better way. Honor, then, that there are new ideas in relation to it. If this creates more vortex or chaos: there are already so many different cooperation bodies, there are so many different forms of company that we have, among other things. Hospital administrators where politicians are sitting, not exactly like direct representatives, but absolutely indirectly, so I don't think there's any reason why we should pay so much attention to the sudden introduction of something that kind of creates some chaos in the way we organize public Norway. I think we can do this in addition, I'm quite convinced of that. In fact, co-municipality is a much cleaner, cleaner and, for me, a more democratic form of cooperation than many of those we already see out there, both in the municipality of Norway and at the regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e914	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e928	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e937	As the President said, what we are about to deal with now is a right-wing proposal to set up an independent dispute resolution body between the state and the municipality. In this case, too, the Committee and the various parties where the governing parties make up the plurality and the Progress Party are minority, and where the Christian People's Party – as far as I understand it – has an intermediate position. I assume that the respective parties will also do their best in this matter. The Party welcomes the inclusion in the proposal of the issue of disputes and different dispute settlements between the State and the municipality. We mean the proposal in a good way to illustrate how dissatisfaction in questions of legality and discretion with the system we have today can create challenges for municipal self-government and the further development of local democracy. I guess the Storting is well-known that there are a number of conflicts between the municipality and the state where decisions in elected bodies are set aside, and that this is a democratic challenge. Several of these conflicts concern the exercise of judgement rather than legal clarification. The population of many municipalities is thus in a situation where social development is at risk of being completely stopped or significantly delayed. The Progress Party believes that the proposers come in at several important moments around the involvement of the state in the local self-government and the importance of looking closer to the alternative ways of resolving such conflicts. One or more specialised courts capable of resolving disputes between the State and the municipality have been the subject of debate at several times. The Progress Party notes that there are increasing numbers of supporters of such a proposal, and notes that both KS, several leading researchers, prominent lawyers and the Civil Service Ombudsman have called for the creation of one or more specialised courts to help strengthen local democracy. The party of progress believes it is important to ensure local self-government, and that trust in local democracy becomes weak when locally anchored decisions, decisions by the populace, is constantly being tried or put aside by state bodies. KS has been provided with an interim report entitled ‘Impact of the opposition institute on local self-government’. He was made on January 27th this year. This report is worth reading. He illustrates in a clear way what kind of challenges local policy faces on land issues when political judgement is tested and seen alongside governmental bodies. The report shows that 94 pst. by the municipalities that had had the municipal plan for treatment, it was felt that there were deposits or alerts from state agencies against the municipal plan. So it's almost hard to call it a municipal plan. It is mainly the County that comes with real estate, and then many local politicians will experience this almost as the County Council's spatial plan – not the municipal government's plan. Therefore, we believe that time is overdue to propose an independent specialised court. The party of progress and the right is also behind a proposal that I want to read out, at the same time as I do it. The proposal is based on the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of an independent specialised court which is able to resolve conflicts between the municipality and the State with binding effect.’ Then I see the proposal that is being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e971	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e974	The majority of the Committee points out that the proposal for an independent dispute resolution body between the State and the municipality raises issues in several legal areas, including: process law and administrative law. The working party believes that such a change is too extensive and is currently not sufficiently monitored to allow us to support the proposal. The introduction of e.g. an administrative court requires a comprehensive knowledge base and important clarifications in principle and practice. The Working Party points out that, in the case of independent dispute resolution mechanisms, a denominatored dispute resolution mechanism for sharing costs in the field of child protection has been established through a cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of KS. Guides have also been provided for the establishment of a nationally independent body to handle disputes between the State, including the specialist health service, and the municipality, including the municipal health and care service, on the implementation of the new statutory agreements between municipalities and health enterprises, as set out. Prop. 91 L for 2010–2011. The dispute resolution body shall be established by agreement between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the KS and shall operate in the same way as the Child Protection Dispute Resolution Body. I would like to point out that these dispute resolution mechanisms provide for the possibility to test out a national and independent dispute resolution body on a smaller scale and on a demarcated area. Once the arrangements have been made to work for a period of time, they may provide a knowledge base for assessing whether the arrangements should be transferred to other management sectors, if any. I would like to stress that local democracy is strong in Norway, and I believe that disputes between the state and the municipality are best resolved through dialogue and political processes rather than through a new special court for these matters. The fact that we have rule of the people and democratic elections means that we are here at the heart of the policy. A specialised court is not the solution for local self-government and disputes between the State and the municipality. The relationship between the state and the municipality is debated when Stortinget will discuss Meld. Art. No. 12 for 2011–2012 at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e991	Municipal self-government has a long tradition in Norway. The Presidency laws, which opened up extensive local self-government, were introduced as early as 1837 – otherwise applied in 100 fewer municipalities than what we operate with today, thinking enough. But what the municipal sector can show in impressive length in terms of self-government cannot, unfortunately, point to in depth, because municipal autonomy has been under pressure. There have been two pendulum movements moving in the same direction: the first is that sector interests have become stronger in the country. The fact that the state itself has wanted to centralize more power also fits well with the social democratic heritage. We are therefore faced with the fact that many local governments see that you have less real power. It is seen in the problems of recruiting new trustees at the municipal elections etc. Then we've had a discussion about earmarked grants, which fortunately has shown a striking trend. There it's cleaned up. Several parties have contributed to this. However, municipal self-government is still threatened by the legal process by the fact that an abundance of special laws dictated by the sector interests are being pushed on the local authorities, which have less and less room for action on a daily basis. So also in this area, we see that municipal autonomy is exposed to what is otherwise called legalization. It also calls for certain possibilities for the local level of decision-making to go to an independent body in order to identify how far laws and regulations relate to them actually apply. Today, there is a hierarchical relationship that makes it possible for the state and the municipality/communities to discuss, that is, the State that is also responsible for the application of the law and that ends the discussion. We believe that the state must respect the laws that the state itself gives, even when it does not suit them or their special interests. Therefore, it is important that Norway complies with the conventions we have signed. The 1985 Council of Europe Convention states that Member States undertake to provide the local administration with a legal remedy, i.e. a judicial remedy, enabling the independent third party to bring legal disputes between the State and the municipality – legal disputes that are becoming more and more frequent due to the legal proceedings to which I referred. That is why the answer to these questions is very much in line with what the proposers have put forward today, namely that we get a special court or administrative court – at least one outside the state, which can ensure that the state complies with its own laws, respects the boundaries of governance in a proper way, which the county officials today, as the state's representatives, are not always. I have seen that the majority of the committee, which is not in favour of the proposal, is not entirely reprehensible. But they say that there are so many other big messages that are principled and beautiful, and that you can take it up later, and that you don't have enough knowledge today to go for the proposal. Now you might say, with a little glimpse in your eye, that this lack of knowledge has never been an obstacle to a majority who want to do anything. The major health reforms in recent years have been implemented with strong assumptions, with no specific research background. But no matter how you look at the experience we have in order to support the proposal, I must at least ask the responsible Council of State, Mr Navarsete, whether it is at least not a little embarrassing that in 2012, 23 years after we signed the Council of Europe Convention, we have not given the municipal sector that access to an independent dispute resolution body that we have signed up to. It must be embarrassing, whatever else you think, that Norway does not comply with its international obligations when we have signed the Treaties. So whatever else you mean, we can have a discussion about, but it has to be embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1006	As a county politician, I learned to be very happy in partnership, i.e. this was important with commitment cooperation between municipalities and county councils and not least the state. And a beautiful ideal for us was seamlessness within the government. The reality is too much that if we sit at one of the three levels of government, we would like to owe it to the other two: the municipal politician owes it to the county council and state and the county politician of the municipality and state, and when we sit at national level, it is municipalities and county councils that do not work as they should. This is frustrating in the long run, both for them within the public sector and for them outside. Within the framework of this partnership, it is, of course, ideal that when conflicts arise between the three levels of government, a policy solution should be found. Then a No to EU vessels should be a little careful to pay tribute to the President of the European Commission, Barroso, but he has a very beautiful figure when he is going to draw out these levels of government: then he operates with a straight line, where everyone is positioned equally, as opposed to the pyramid, just to show that there should be an equivalence between the levels of government. This is, of course, true in this idea of partnership, in which case conflicts should be resolved in an equivalent way. It is, as I said, a beautiful ideal, but as, among other things, The practice is much more problematic in a good way for proposers. I think the proposers are raising an interesting debate, a very important debate and a necessary debate as the reality works for us today, and I see, among other things. Michael Tetzschner well justified this by the fact that it is difficult, not least, to live the ideal of finding policy solutions. An additional point is linked to the sectored state, namely that the municipal politician and state politician often meet as much a government office as they meet representatives of a coordinated state political level. So my, and SVs, attitude to this is that this is an interesting and important debate. We'll be excited to follow up on the trials that are now under way. Then I am convinced – we are all – that we should not end this debate here today. We must definitely come back to this at a later opportunity to see what might be the good solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1017	The proposal to establish an independent dispute resolution body between the State and the municipality raises issues in many areas of law, including: process legislation and administrative legislation – issues that are not adequately addressed today. Of course, the centre party wants the most equivalent partnership between state and municipality, but if alternative dispute resolution mechanisms are to be explored, we need a much better knowledge base than what we have today, and different models need to be assessed. There is a denominatored dispute settlement mechanism for the distribution of expenditure in the field of child protection under agreement between the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of KS from 2008. Guidance has also been provided to establish a new nationally independent body to deal with any disputes that may arise between the specialist health service and the municipalities in the context of the implementation of the Interaction Reform. This could be done, for example, by: refers to the definition of ready-to-print patients. The dispute resolution body will be established by agreement between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the KS. The Central Party believes that these two arrangements will allow us to test an independent dispute resolution body in defined areas. Now these health and child protection systems must be allowed to work for a while, and then the evaluation will provide us with a good basis to assess whether it might be appropriate to consider similar schemes in other management sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1028	In this case too, the Christian People's Party is with the government parties. It is not because the Christian People's Party rejects this proposal for the creation of an independent dispute resolution body between the state and the municipality. However, as the government parties also point out in this case, independent dispute resolution bodies are already established. There is a denominatored dispute resolution mechanism for the sharing of expenditure in the field of child protection – an agreement concluded between the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the KS. Guidance has also been provided to establish a nationally independent body to deal with disputes between the specialist health service and the municipal health and care services in the context of the Interaction Reform. This is a dispute resolution body to be established, in agreement between the Ministry of Health and Health and the KS, and to operate in the same way as the Child Protection Dispute Resolution Body. It is precisely on the basis of these more limited dispute resolution bodies that we want to acquire knowledge by evaluating these mechanisms, and that knowledge will be of great importance in terms of how we present ourselves to the representative proposal – whether we should later establish just such an independent dispute body. But we need to learn from the arrangements that have been put in place – and are to be introduced – before we take it out on a large scale. That is, the Christian People's Party does not reject the proposal, but we want more knowledge through the more limited dispute resolution bodies that are established. I hear that SV's representative Aksel Hagen is open that we must continue to take this debate in the future, because there is an important debate. It's about the relationship between state and municipality. But then I have to say that I am very surprised that the government parties reject the proposal. I also understand the council that she is open to come back to this after evaluating the arrangements that are on a slightly smaller scale. But the representatives of the government parties in the committee choose to reject the whole proposal. I think it's strange when you say at the same time that this is an important debate that you have to come back to. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed not to reject this proposal, but to attach it to the protocol, just to make what the representative Aksel Hagen was about: this is not a debate we are doing here and now. We need more knowledge, and we need more time. So there's something about choosing their fights with care. I would therefore ask the government parties not to reject the proposal, but to do as the Christian People's Party proposes, namely to attach the proposal to the protocol in order to make it clear that this is a matter to which we come back. It is an important matter, and in that way we are not entirely opposed to this proposal, promoted by the Right. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1043	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1047	It is true, as many have said from the Chair, that there is an important and interesting debate raised by this proposal. However, as the majority also recommends, the proposal for a representative on the establishment of independent dispute resolution mechanisms between the State and the municipality raises issues in several jurisdictions, including: process law and administrative law. No one should be in any doubt that I want a most jealous relationship of power between the state and the municipality. Later, the Stortinget will discuss precisely the relationship and cooperation between the State and the municipality on the basis of the message the government has submitted on that theme. However, when we are going to deal with possible alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, we also need to develop a good knowledge base and to be sure that the proposal is based on a good knowledge base. We will look at experiences from different models that are useful both here in Norway and in other countries. For this reason, it is too early to comment specifically on the various alternative dispute resolution mechanisms outlined by the representatives in the proposal. In Report. St. 12 for 2011–2012 State and municipality – governance and interaction, as I mention, there is a reference to the creation of dispute resolution mechanisms for disputes concerning the distribution of expenditure between state and municipality in the field of child protection and for disputes between the specialist services and the municipal health and care services on the implementation of statutory agreements between municipalities and health professionals. I think that gives us a good chance to see how national dispute resolution mechanisms operate on a smaller scale and on a limited scale. The representative of Tetzschner from the Right asks whether it is not embarrassing that Norway has still not followed up the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Irrespective of the dispute resolution, Norway's attitude is that we comply with these obligations. It has different governments, including with the Right in Government, and later with the leader in Right as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The right did not address this issue either, as they lead the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, because the stalls have been there. Then, as mentioned in the proposal, I have received a letter from the European Congress. It is clear that this will lead us to review the range of obligations contained in the Charter again and in a tidy manner. This may be consistent with the fact that we look at the schemes already in place in Norway, and that we look at the basis of knowledge when it applies to both the Norwegian schemes and those in other countries, and in that context consider whether those schemes should be transferred to other management sectors. This is, of course, a work to be done by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, but also by the other departments to which it applies. I myself have been in municipal government for many years and in county councils. Not least in the local government, like many other local government representatives, I have experienced that proposals that I thought were good have met with opposition from the state – and then often through the State, which is the one that organizes on behalf of the state in the county. As a rule – at least the matters I have been away from – the issues have been resolved without exception through dialogue and interaction and mutual respect for a different role in the system. The county is acting on behalf of the Grand Duchy when decisions are taken, and it is also important that the county is, in this way, subject to a democratically elected level. So I believe in interaction in front of the juze. I believe in democracy in front of the law, while I'm with and discussing, and through the experiments that you've done when it comes to child protection and the health sector, try to see if it's the way we need a body to evaluate and help solve disputes. But all my political orientation means that we have to work more to prevent such conflicts, and that we don't have to set up another court. It is probably politics that have been jus in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1066	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1069	I thank the Council of State for the receipt – if not exactly the answer to the challenge that we have not fulfilled our obligations regarding an independent local government dispute resolution agency in relation to the state. But the Council of State pointed to what must obviously be Norway's eternal municipal minister, who was Højres Erna Solberg, who – as I know – went off in 2005. So my question is whether the Council of State does not now have an independent opinion on the matter. It is true that at an earlier stage it could be an interpretative will, but it was actually replaced by the Council of Europe's Committee of Experts in 2006 — that is, after the Navarsete Council had taken a seat — clearing that doubt by saying that Norway was not complying with the Convention. Then you have to either renegotiate it or introduce the provision you have signed. What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1076	First of all, the Council of State took Navarsete's seat as a municipal minister in 2009, but the important thing in this context is that I was in government from 2005. What I said in my post is that after we have received that call, we go through the range of obligations in the charter again. For it has been, as I said in my post, Norway's understanding that we fulfilled those obligations, and through alternating governments one, as I said, meant it. Now we're going through it again with the departments it's in, and then we're going to come back to that answer when we've done that review. He's not finished today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1083	Yes, it is okay to review it, but now it is the case that the Council of Europe's own committee of experts has established that Norway is living contrary to the Convention. Then you don't need a review. Then we have to introduce what has been signed as early as 1989 — with a certain amount of doubt, which is now cleared up by the road in 2006. Does it need further investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1088	Contrary to the Right, which still accepts what has to come from different bodies beyond the borders of the country, the government will always go through the affairs itself and have self-esteem about it. When alternate governments from 1989 have said that we have complied with the charter, there is at least a basis for assessing it before we sign it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1093	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1098	The opposition often complains that the majority rejects good proposals simply because they come from the minority. It is not so in this case. This is a bad suggestion. Everything in the process comes out crooked. Using Tocqueville to describe today's Norwegian system hits poorly. His reference is France in the 1800s – today a system of 36,679 municipalities according to Wikipedia. I thought it was only 16,000, but still. The United States of America of the 1800s was his ideal — not much like today’s Norway either. That's why Tocqueville's claim, to which the minority refers, that municipal institutions are not able to fight an active and strong government, is rather grounded in this context. We have an active and strong government, yes. But it does not fight against the municipalities, on the contrary. The municipalities haven't had such a liberal relationship in a long time. Municipal self-government is strong, but of course we can always discuss the degree of government governance. That is what we get, as others have mentioned, good opportunities when the Stortinget at the end of May deals with Meld. Art. No. 12 on governance and interaction. Many considerations need to be weighed against each other – equality for citizens, which politicians should decide what, and at what level, power relations between politics and administration at all levels, and last but not least: Where should power lie in the relationship between government sector authorities and local peoples? It is a little difficult to find where in this landscape the Right Dispute Resolution Body is moving. It's little political, but it's very legal-theoretical in its rationale. However, the minority comments of the Progress Party and the Right go straight into one part of the big picture: the power relationship between the government and the local people. They refer to the conditions in one named state, within a very specific policy area, namely spatial planning. It's a narrow perspective. The relationship between the State and the municipality is more than that. In addition, State sector authorities and county officials operate within a politically agreed framework of key national policy considerations. If we think that the force ratio is wrong, the answer might as well be to change the law, simplify the supervisory regimes, or provide clearer national political leadership on what we expect from local authorities. On the other hand, there is much the municipalities themselves can do to influence their own room of action, for example. by inviting cooperation on the major tasks. State councils say she needs more knowledge to make a decision. That's very kind of you to say. The plural is not the same as the plural. The proposal should be rejected. We shouldn't move power from elected people to lawyers. The state-municipality relationship is politics, not jus. And on top of that, what is it really that suggests that a court would be more municipality than state if, for example, it was. is the law wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1117	It was good to get the cat out of the bag, for what has puzzled us who have worked on this matter, including the representative Bekkevold, who took it up in his post, is that the government parties write a note that appears to be positive to this proposal. They're based on the letter of reply from the Council of State Life Signe Navarsete, where she says that well, this is an interesting suggestion, but it's not a proposal we're going to go in for now. At the same time, however, she refers to arrangements with, among other things, the protection of children and the interaction involving the dispute resolution body between the State and the municipality. However, I have read what is not in large-scale documents too, namely the opinion of Helga Pedersen, the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, who says that politicians abdicate from a new bureaucratic body from which she is taking a great deal of distance. The Official Journal of Bergen wrote a management article that put this in place. They wrote that here they show the rift of the government in terms of municipal autonomy. It is the Central Party's wish that the municipalities should have greater influence, greater equivalence with the State, while the Workers' Party will, of course, insist that the Almighty State should decide. When Lise Christoffersen says that this is kind of a hopeless proposal, I have to say: what is so hopeless about the state and the municipality having a dispute that can be settled in a court-like body, a special court, etc.? We have not taken a final decision on how this should be. For what is the reality today – and it rewrites a joint committee in the context of reporting. Art. No. 12 – is that there is great frustration in Kommune-Norway over state objections that affect almost all municipal plans and that affect municipalities that want to follow the unanimous decisions of the elected people. Then it can sit a person in a directorate, who is not elected to the public, and performs discretionary exercises, thereby overstepping the unanimous decisions of the people's elected representatives. If the municipality complains about this, who is the mediator? Well, it's County, the state's extended arm in the counties. If the municipality is still dissatisfied, it is decided in the department. Where's the equivalency going? Where is the municipality's ability to try its case? I see the jam we got the cats out of the bag. The Labour Party wants the state to be omnipotent and to decide everything. The municipalities have nothing they should have said. It wants the Right to do something about it. That is why we are promoting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1128	The debate on an independent dispute resolution body to resolve disputes between the State and the Municipality is being prepared by the Right and the Advance Party as if it were a real autonomy for the municipalities, unlike today. The relationship between the State and the municipality of Norway is based on the generalist principle. All municipalities have the same responsibility for their inhabitants, whether they are small or large. State and municipality are closely intertwined in Norway. That might be one of the reasons why we live in a welfare society with relatively small differences between people. The aim of the Workers' Party is for municipalities to provide good welfare services and ensure legal certainty for the inhabitants. Everyone is equal to the law, regardless of which municipality they are residents of. This principle has developed welfare services across the whole country. The proposal of the Right may strengthen individual municipalities in any dispute with the State, but it does not necessarily ensure equality for the inhabitants. Equality is ensured through a good municipal economy, which balances income differences between municipalities. It is even possible that a dispute resolution body leads to more inequality between municipalities. It may also be that the largest municipalities, with the most resources, are able to make the most of such a disputed body. Another concern is whether the proposal paves the way for the law to replace political judgement. The argument about local self-determination may be a rewriter of political disagreement with the current government. We see that some municipalities choose to pay cash support to two-year-olds and in this way avoid getting new kindergartens. I see that as a mere bypass of government policy in the kindergarten field and a good example to illustrate different political views. As has already been mentioned, two attempts have been made at such a dispute resolution body specifically directed against child protection and the cooperation reform and the allocation of expenditure. These are areas where the state and the municipality are closely interwoven and how individuals are strongly affected if the system does not work. I therefore regard this as a quality assurance of the cooperation reform and as a means of ensuring the implementation of the reform – as smooth and fair as possible. It also provides us with experience, and it ensures that the economic aspects of these fields are distributed fairly. In addition, the government has consultations with the local authorities’ stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1143	As previously elected local authorities, it is quite inevitable to be reminded of the feeling we often shared in my municipality, that when you disagree with central authorities, you are met with beautiful words in the word change, but when you come to reality, you are completely rejected as to what the matter actually applies. It's the central authority that has to decide. It is the same feeling I inevitably get in this debate. Is that one signal we get from elected representatives at the municipal level, and rapporteurs, it is that they experience increasing state domination. The representative Lise Christoffersen was commendably honest in her post, for which she shall have honor. She supports why the majority rejects the proposal to strengthen local democracy, while at the same time denying Tocqueville's contribution to the development of democracy – it now has to do with the representative's own account. I would rather recommend the representative – since she rejects old classics – to read modern social studies, among other things. the 2009 Nobel Prize winner in economics, Elinor Ostrom of the United States, who was awarded his prize because she demonstrated that decisions and local management of Community resources were more effective locally than central governance. She confirmed Tocqueville’s old-fashioned approach in 2009, and she received the Nobel Prize for it. Proximity provides good governance. Local democracy needs a safety valve as it has developed in Norway. That's what the Right's proposal is about, and it's going to be totally rejected. The Minister of Local Affairs claims that there are enough policies that have become jus. It is possible that it is right, at least the Right does not support such an approach to local democracy – let it be said. But with today's policies, there are more than enough policies that have been transferred from local authorities to a state bureaucracy. That's what we want to reverse with our proposal. But it is not being followed, it is being rejected on the contrary – as is stated in the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1155	There were a few comments, first in the first posts of the Navarset Council and then in the posts of the representative Lise Christoffersen, where the juxtaposition was presented almost as a bureaucratic invention that impedes the exercise of democracy. It is a little special – if you consider that the representative Christoffersen is a member of the country’s legislative assembly – to remind the representative that every time we adopt a law in this room, it is an expression of politics, but it is turned into law. There are also deeper thinkers than me who have said that legislation is really stronger law. This is quite important, because what we are basically discussing is that when, as we all recognise, the State has legislative competence, the Stortinget has it, it chooses to address the municipalities with legal requirements, it must also ensure that the state and the various state administrations respect the laws of the State. Then they cannot be self-sufficient in their interpretation of how the law is to be understood. I think the representative Trond Helleland in an excellent way pointed out that the appeals you have today mean, in fact, that it is the same party that only refers to a door further down the corridor. In the worst case, the case must enter a department in Oslo, where it is of course decided in the same way – as the state will – and without an independent third party body being able to intercede and say that here the state has not complied with its own rules of play. And that's the key: with a dispute resolution body you get a check on whether the state has kept its own rules of play, when these rules are given in law. And then there's also a final point, if we're interested in keeping the Storting as a central element of our democracy: if we make laws here in the hall, which allows the government to interpret in its own discretion, the Storting has also transferred authority from this hall to the state bureaucrat. That's another side of the overarching of local democracy we see. So I don't think either the historical or other parallels that have been drawn from the majority side to justify that this is not a good proposal, hold. I still believe, and have been further strengthened by the debate, that there is a two-part view on this matter of local self-government. They are the ones who want it. We don't challenge the state's ability to make laws, but we say in the meeting with the local government, government agencies must also respect their own laws, and if they need help to read the law of a dispute resolution body, they will get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1168	The Norwegian administration system is quite distinct from many European countries. We have historically had a very strong central power – first represented by the King and his advice and later by the Stortinget. Johan Sverdrup put it in his famous post in Stortinget on 8 March 1872 as follows: "... at the moment when all power and power are gathered here in this hall for the purpose of determining the highest and most important matters of society, there is a great awakening beyond the land." Although the representative Sverdrup thought first and foremost about the relationship between the King's Council and the Stortinget, this also gives a good picture of the Norwegian administration. It is the Stortinget that lays the framework for the activities of municipalities through the laws. The government has no independent authority to instruct the municipalities. It must be in a law. The main reason for maintaining this strong central power has been to ensure both equivalent cross-border services and national interests. The representative of Greece was very concerned that the cats had come out of the bag – and I am also very pleased that the bourgeois side let the cats out of the bag. When I hear the representative, Werp, justify why it is now important to introduce a administrative court, or a special court, which is to settle disputes between the state and the municipality – he justifies it with the policy being pursued today – it is obvious that the Stortinget policy is the leader, which is the problem, and not how to resolve the disputes and disagreements and the differences in interpretation that arise between the state and the municipality. We don't have to go to Nobel Prize winners to know that local democracy has its advantages. It is enough to read the 2006 Borge Committee to see that strong local democracy is providing clear economic efficiency gains and good use of resources. That is why we are living with strong local democracy in this country, and so has this government and the majority in this Chamber. And that's not what the representative Tetzschner said in his post, that it's been a flare of earmarked grants. On the contrary, the level of earmarked grants to municipalities is at a historically low level, after we have now raised kindergartens into the framework of municipalities. So in that area, the municipalities are significantly stronger than they were in the past. Then we all agree that there are challenges associated with how the municipalities meet the state, and that sometimes it feels like frustrating. But what I hear as an example from those who are in charge of such a dispute resolution system is, of course, taken from land management. The land management is inextricably linked to precisely opposites of interest, and the whole of the land legislation is linked to creating processes that resolve conflicts at the earliest possible time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1186	It is referred to as the rift of the government – the central party will have greater local government, and the Labour Party will have an all-powerful state. It's as wrong as it can be! Question: What is hopeless about the state and local authority having a dispute that can be settled by a dispute body? I tried to say that in my first post. The hopeless thing is that you can't set lawyers to solve political issues; you need elected politicians to do that at all levels. As former rapporteur, I myself was many times informed of the government sector authorities that I thought went far beyond their powers. I myself was so lucky to be able to help change that relationship of strength through the new Planning and Building Act, where one has placed strong restrictions on the right of objection. But it requires local authorities to use their own room of action. Some of the worst things I know is when municipalities stop without using their own room of action. I can use a concrete example: we in the Drammen perceived the state road system as one of our strongest opponents, but through our own initiative for cooperation, the state road system became our best partner. But in the great conflict in the Drammen at that time – if we were to have a double motorway bridge or tunnel under the eleven – we could not agree. We felt overwhelmed by the state, but the one we had the dialogue with was the Minister for the Environment – a politician. No court can solve that kind of issue. So when we talk about increasing state detail management of the municipalities: it comes from here, from this hall! For every special law that we adopt, the more detailed and greater power we give to the government sector administration. In my view, even more of today's sectoral legislation should be terminated and included under the Planning and Building Act, because it is not just a law for spatial planning, but for social planning in all areas. That would have been really moving power from bureaucracy to local elected politicians. So I'm not too more state detail management, I'm to the contrary. I believe that we should manage more after the results have been achieved. I also believe that the municipality is the popularly elected level which is the best body to coordinate state sector interests and achieve very many important national policy objectives. So here in this room, we could focus more on steering according to the results achieved – according to the course we want for Norway – carried out in the communities where people live, and not as today when we drill into the smallest details. And at least we don't have to send those details into a legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1199	The right makes it appear that state governance is the opposite of municipal self-determination. Right-wing want to legalise the policy. Our society has been developed over many years through political processes and not through legal processes. Until now, it has actually created one of the world's best societies to live in. It is true, as Greece says, that the Committee is concerned about the number of objections and that we need to look at the whole. We're going to do that. Provisions that are initially well intended can work together against the sincere good intention. I believe that we must constantly, through a dialogue with the municipalities, reconsider whether these are things we need to change. Policy is being developed in dialogue with those who are going to implement the policy, namely the municipal level, and not through a legal process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1206	The representative Michael Tetzschner has already had the word twice before and thus gets the word to a short remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1209	It was to Lise Christoffersen's posts, which contained good elements, in particular the proposal on how to improve laws, and that we can do more to reduce the number of state objections. We have 22 of them today, so it must have been even worse, if you praise yourself for doing a clean-up there. But that's not what this question applies to. The proposal for an independent body applies precisely in cases where the relationship between the State and the municipality has been legalised by the State itself by addressing the local government sector by adopting a law. However, if the law applies to the municipalities, but not to the state, the choice is to accept it as a subordination relationship – which is no contribution to local democracy – or to attack it with legal dispute resolution mechanisms, as we have recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1230	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1239	From the slightly large issues of principle to the more practical – but also interesting legal – issues. Because what's available here is something that we were in for, that the Stortinge makes decisions in the form of law decisions every day, and if we agree here, it ends with an improvement in the housing law. The proposal is that it should be easier than in the past for a housing team that owns all the shares in a limited liability company to introduce this if they themselves believe they need it. Today there is no basis for such mergers in the case of housing construction layers, while the cooperative law § 119 already has a very simple procedure that has the advantage that it does not trigger a document fee or a property information fee, and that it is also not necessary to walk the road to the dissolution of the merged company. So you can do a normal merger, according to the pattern of what is found in the Share Act. It is the unanimous view of the Committee that this is an instrument we would like to provide for housing law, and that, although the state may theoretically miss some income from the document fee, it is also socio-economically important to respect the wishes of the local authorities to organise their activities in the most rational way possible. Unfortunately, the Committee has divided itself – in a minority – in pointing out, with this law as a starting point, the simplification possibilities available to it. There is such a coincidence between the law on cooperatives and the law on housing construction – which is also a cooperative law – that we have pointed out the benefits of incorporating these laws into a common law, so that we do not break the Stortingen by changing two laws in parallel when the basic provision is the same one that we want to introduce for both areas, the residential construction area and the cooperative area. What we are doing now – and on which the majority are also involved – is adjusting the Housing Construction Act, so that we get the same merger option that is already in Section 119 of the Cooperative Act, as mentioned above. We have therefore pointed out that there is an undissolved potential – whether you are engaged in housing construction, cooperatives, or other activities – in order to simplify the overall law, and that should be looked at in more detail. So even if it doesn't get in touch here in the Chamber today, I hope that some of our officials in the Departments could look a little bit closer to that matter, because it's actually a very good proposal. With the richness of laws that we have in the red book that lies before the President, we should look at all the possibilities to simplify the legal and regulatory image in Norway and also make it easier for users to find out and get good guidance in the laws that see the same jurisdiction, as it really is, in the context. So this is a proposal for consideration. Although these remarks do not have a majority behind them today, they are of goodwill to those who are dealing with such questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1250	In the case we are now dealing with, changes in the housing law, there is no major disagreement. The working party is with the other parties about most. That's the last point that the representative Tetzschner was on, we disagree a little bit. Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party want, as they say, to simplify by moving housing laws into the cooperative law. The working party does not regard the removal of the law on housing construction layers as a so-called simplification, but as a hollowing out of the housing structure model. The working party believes it is right that we have our own law for housing construction. We are committed to strengthening this way of living, because it is a safe and democratic residence. But the Labour Party is pleased with the decision being taken here today and that the Committee is unanimous. In addition to what I have now commented on, we agree with what the case-rapporteur, Mr Tetzschner, said in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1259	For many years, housing construction in Norway has been a key player in the construction and management of housing, mainly housing organised in the framework of a housing structure. Building blocks associated with NBBL, today count around 9 300 housing companies with 415,000 housing units, which are spread throughout the country and make up approximately 18 pst. of all the dwellings in Norway. The government is busy facilitating the organization of building layers in the best way possible. NBBL and OBOS have asked the Ministry to make a change to the building law that opens up a simpler process for merging residential building companies and their entire subsidiaries. The cooperative has such an attribute. NBBL and OBOS indicate that there are no significant grounds for discriminating between housing and other cooperatives in the case of mergers of wholly owned subsidiaries. A consequence of discrimination has been that cooperative undertakings which have been regulated by cooperatives have abolished the payment of a document fee and a settlement fee if the cooperative undertaking merges into wholly owned subsidiaries as own property. If building permits are to be merged into wholly-owned subsidiaries as own property, they must pay both the document fee and the costs of settlement. For this reason, the government in the proposition proposes to introduce a new lease in the building law, in accordance with the cooperative pattern, which makes it easier for building permits to merge into a wholly owned subsidiary company. There is no reason to maintain the discrimination between housing and other cooperatives currently taking place because of this missing merger rule in housing law. This will strengthen building laws as a company form. At the same time, a flexibility that the actors have long asked for will be provided. The government believes that this will enable housing construction teams not to stumble on unwarranted and costly obstacles, but that they can organise themselves purposely. There has been a full agreement on the proposal in the universal hearing. I am also pleased that all parties agree on the simplification proposal. In the context of the hearing, the Association of Lawyers has asked the Ministry to consider introducing a corresponding merger rule into the law governing civil law, in order to facilitate the merger of a wholly owned subsidiary. Traditional law of the community rarely establishes a subsidiary. The department believes that such a rule would be a little bit practical. A protective layer itself does not have an interest in opening it for such a solution in the framework of the Law of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of For the burette layer, such a scheme would also cause certain disadvantages, such as: the risk of tax pruning if the tenants of the barge would later decide to dissolve the barge and section the ownership. In my opinion, this will make the border stroke more inconspicuous. So we're not going to follow this suggestion up in the proposition. It hasn't been on public hearing either. The members of the Municipal Committee of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have pointed to the possibility of incorporating housing law as an own chapter in cooperative society. The idea has been to bring forward the similarity between the different cooperatives and to open up to facilitate future audit work. I do not recommend such an association. Such a collection was assessed and rejected by the Cooperative Committee, which elaborated the proposal for cooperative society. The reason for this was that the special legislation was tailor-made for the construction and construction of buildings. One found that it would be unfortunate if one were to replace this regulation with a law that did not take into account the peculiarities of these layers in the same way. Norway has a long tradition of, and good experience with, owning a barricade law. From the point of view of housing cooperation, there is an advantage to a comprehensive regulatory framework for the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1276	No one has asked for the word in reply. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1292	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1301	Today, we are going to consider a proposal from Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden on a review of the regulations relating to the building and planning laws in order to make it easier to rent out a part of your own building. The proposers think it must be easier to rent out a part of your own dwelling in case the landlord himself lives in the same house, and where less than half of the building area in the house is rented out. The current legislation on renting is uncomplicated and square in the opinion of the proposers, and it does not help to resolve the lack of housing. The aim of the proposers is to increase the number of rental units in the cities and to reduce the current approval system. They also point to the fact that the most important measure one from the state can contribute to meeting the increased demand for rentals is that one stimulates more people to rent out parts of their own housing in which they themselves live. They also indicate that today's regulations to the Law on Planning and Building add a number of leads when you set up rental units in your own housing, and these will be listed in the document. The proposers agree that requirements are set for new buildings for the establishment of rental components, but they point to, for example, that the legislation for the approval of rental units in their own housing should reflect different needs in a better way than today. In the light of the opinion of the proposers, the legislation for the approval of a rental agent should ideally be so simple as to ensure that a part of a dwelling complies with the requirements for rental if it meets certain minimum requirements and that the approved process can be fulfilled through a simple notification to the municipality. They believe that as long as requirements for escape routes, fire safety and basic facilities are met, there should be a greater degree of contractual freedom between landlords and tenants than is the case today. Furthermore, the proposers argue that municipalities should be given more space for action as approval bodies when applying for the approval of the rental component, and in this context they refer to the situation in the municipality of Stavanger. The Committee is pleased that proposals are being made to help identify potential challenges in terms of access to housing in the market. The Committee also agrees that greater demand than market supply contributes to the upsizing of prices and thus excludes and hampers access to housing for many. The Committee is well aware that a large part of the rentals are part of private housing and that the changes in the framework conditions for renting out parts of a private dwelling can easily contribute to their withdrawal from the market. The Committee would stress that housing issues are a complex issue that needs a broad and thorough approach, and we refer to NOW 2011: 15, Space for all, where a number of challenges around the housing market and housing-social issues are addressed in a thorough manner. Furthermore, the Committee will refer to the government's announcement of housing, which we expect to see more closely on several aspects of housing issues, both on the own and on the rental market, and possible measures to improve the situation. I would like to show that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party agree with the conclusions that new public demands may adversely affect access to rental buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1329	The Committee is essentially assembled on the observations in this matter. As the rapporteur pointed out, housing policy is a complex and broad field. In the rental market, there are different types of housing needs. Some people may have special needs and may need to have a specially adapted home, while others do not have such great demands on how to live. With regard to the proposal from the Left, I would like to point out that the existing residential space can be rented free of charge without the approval of the municipality. The construction technical requirements of the Planning and Building Act are first addressed by the conversion and change of use of existing dwellings, e.g.: if a dwelling is to be changed to a dwelling. Of course, the construction requirements must be followed in principle. The point of having these requirements for the design of the dwelling area is to take care of the tenant. This applies, for example: ceiling height and escape routes. If it is to be agreed – in a pressed housing market – whether the dwelling is suitable to live in, I think there are many people who can agree to a dwelling with, for example. for small windows, through which it is impossible to get through. Therefore, we need to have a regulatory framework to ensure that the dwellings that are rented out are suitable for living in. I think that's important. The representative proposal raises questions as to whether all the rules on which it is based are necessary for the establishment of a rental part. I then show that last November the government sent out a bill to the hearing to see if changes in the planning and construction process were possible. The consultation addresses issues related to the application requirements for existing buildings. This proposition has now come to Stortinget – it's Prop. 91 L for 2011–2012 – so we get the opportunity to look at this topic there, and also in the announced housing announcement from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1340	We support the intention of the proposers to make it less bureaucratic and easier to rent out a part of the dwelling in which you live. Like the proposers, we are also concerned about, as we have stated in our remarks, that this large housing reserve, as this can represent, disappears from the market if you have unreasonable demands. That's not what society deserves. Then, of course, it also needs to be clarified that in the case of public regulations aimed at making all parts of the dwelling fireproof – of course also the parts used for rental – it will be an important marker for us. Otherwise, housekeeping should not be rented out that has an unacceptable low standard. But there is still a lot to go on to make it easier for private people to rent out a part of the dwelling, and we support, as I said, the intention of the proposers. In the setting it was shown that the Stortinget has been treated within quite a clear time the long-informed housing report, and we see the follow-up of various NOUs that go on the construction standard. Then we agreed to recommend that the Left's proposal be annexed to the Minutes. Once they've traveled this in the hall, we just want to stress that we're positive about it. We will therefore support the Left's proposals when it is reached in the Chamber. We expect that the majority are also positive about the intention, and that we will have the opportunity to come back to the matter in other propositions, not least in the context of the forthcoming housing announcement. We therefore support the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1351	Only for the sake of order and with regard to voting: the President perceives that the right is no longer behind the position they stood behind in the vote, but wants to support the Left's proposal. This could be the case with alternative voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1354	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1359	All right, then we've registered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1362	Proposals are concerned both with facilitating the establishment of an owner-occupied rental unit and with stimulating the increase in the number of urban rental units. It's a goal I share. I agree that more rental properties are needed on the market. Regularly, rental prices in big cities reach new records. It is difficult enough for students to find a place to live that they can afford, and students often compete with disadvantaged groups. In the Nou Rome for all, some of the issues raised by the proposers are raised. Among other things, it focuses on increasing the establishment of student housing, which will release rental units to other groups. We need both commercial and non-commercial dwellings in the rental market to be able to provide room for all those who need it. At the same time, it is important for us to ensure the terms and conditions of the tenants, and for vulnerable groups and persons with low incomes to enter the rental market. I agree that there is also a need to stimulate more private people who have the opportunity to rent out parts of their own housing. At the same time, it is important that the rental units meet a basic standard of fire safety, basic facilities are in place and the dwelling is otherwise in good condition. In particular, the fire safety requirement should rather be more focused on than less. The notified housing notification will address measures to improve the situation on the ownership and rental market. Furthermore, the government has consulted on a legislative proposal to amend the Planning and Construction Procedures Act, which sets out the requirements to be met when applying for measures on existing buildings. The bill is scheduled to be sent to Stortinget during the current session.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1375	I have to say that when I heard the Workers' Party's contributions here, I thought that it would have been a great advantage if the committee had been involved in what these proposals really are about. For our benefit when we promoted this proposal, it was not that it would compromise fire safety or escape routes. In summarising the rental rules, there is so much that two years ago, Sintef found out that they had to publish their own book in order to clarify these rules. I can mention someone: there shall be no permanent room for a stay of less than 15 km2, the ceiling height shall be more than 2,2 metres, all toilets shall be accessible to persons with reduced mobility, sports grounds – I do not know if the President has it, I do not have it – shall be more than 5 km2, according to the rule, and no bathroom shall be without a membrane. If I had tried to rent out some rooms in my apartment, which have a view directly towards the railway, it would have been a problem that all the apartments should have a view and – not to forget – the average daylight factor should be 2.5 pst. So this isn't the fight to secure fire routes, this is the fight to make it possible at all to rent out some rooms in your own apartment to make sure people have the opportunity to have an apartment to live in, either because you're commuting, because you're a student, or because something has happened in life that makes you need to just rent some rooms. It is not such that this is taken lightly. Not long ago, a company at Hövik got a fine of NOK 100,000, because they had rented an apartment before it was approved. Then the plan lawyer in Bærum said that using a dwelling illegally is initially very serious. So these are rules that are being enforced. I could spend time reading aloud from this paper. On page 68, there is a page and a half on how to build stairs that do not crack. How to make sure you have enough space for umbrellas, shoe racks and other things in the hallway, it's also dedicated one and a half sides. The bureaucracy lives its own lives. Sometimes a lot of good intentions develop along the way, but those who fall victim to it are two groups. They're the ones who are trying to find a place to live in a phase of life because they don't want to pay a lot to do that, and they like to stay with someone to get to it. It's students -- I think a lot of students have a good time renting an apartment where they're under a little supervision of a family -- or there might be people who are weekly commuters, and who think it's nicest to have a room that they know, to which they're going back, instead of a hotel room. The other group it goes beyond is all those who are going into the housing market, and who dream about having their own house, but who realize they can't afford it. But being able to rent out some rooms in that house makes the dream of the house come true. It could be real because you share the cost with someone. It's always been like that. There have always been people who have used that opportunity, both to help someone and to help themselves. It's not just about the big house sharks, it's about renting out when you live in the same house. It's about going together to live together, and then you rent out some rooms. Here it has to be possible to have simpler rules than a daily light factor of 2.5 pst, or the sports floor of 5 m2. This has to be sorted out. It's our job sometimes to put a line on red tape when bureaucracy goes "bananas" with good intentions. What we see in town after town is that it's getting harder and harder for students to get into the housing market. We see that we are developing a class distinction within studies – between those who have parents who can help them with a dwelling while they are studying, and those who do not have such parents. We see that it is harder and harder for people to enter the housing market. The dream of buying your own villa or terrace house is disappearing more and more, because the student you were going to have in the sock apartment can no longer be there. It's because the daylight factor is too low, or because the sports floor is too small. This should have been put at the forefront of the policy so that we could achieve it. I'm dealing with the proposal that we originally had.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1407	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred and which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1411	The government is busy facilitating a well-functioning housing market and ensuring that the process against building governance is good and effective. I would like to mention that I am going to present a communication on housing policy for the Storting in the current year, and also that I agree with the Committee on Housing that the housing issue is complex and needs a broad approach. A lot of people are going into the housing market. Especially in cities, there is a narrow room for many to enter the housing market. In NOW 2011: 15 Rome for all, the selection has discussed several interesting suggestions. We've also got a lot of good audio recordings on the distribution. In the housing policy message we will see the housing issue in context and assess possible measures for a better housing market. Representatives Skei Grande and Tenden are asking for a review of the regulations relating to the building and planning laws, with a view to making it easier to rent out a part of your own building. In this context, I would like to mention that you can rent a part of the existing housing area freely, without the approval of the municipality. There is no need to reconstruct, change in use or create a new building unit to rent out a part of the own building area. Building requirements under the laws on construction and civil engineering will first arise in the conversion and alteration of existing buildings, e.g.: if a bow is to be changed to a dwelling area – i.e. if the named sports arc is to enter the stowage. I refer you to a recently submitted bill on changes in planning and building laws. The legislative proposal was submitted to the Municipal and Administrative Committee on 24 April 2012 and is currently under consideration in the Committee. The proposal addresses issues related to the requirements to be met by the mandatory measures on existing buildings. The proposal provides for a regulatory environment in order to clarify the requirements to be met by measures on existing buildings. In order to ensure good and effective regulation of technical requirements in the case of work on existing buildings, I believe that there is a need for a prescription to clarify the requirements to be imposed. The starting point must be that the construction requirements must be followed when expanding or building a building, for example. whether to make an Earth source or an arc into a dwelling area. The requirements are given to cover health, the environment and building and fire safety. Even in a crowded housing market, we should not offer inappropriate housing. We should avoid speculation in rental with too low a standard. Unfortunately, from time to time there is one example of housing that should not have been offered on the market. The majority will be able to discuss these issues in the examination of the legislative proposal. So renting a part of an existing dwelling where a cage itself is not subject to approval. It can rent out, without any kind of bureaucracy, as it works today. There is no requirement for conversion, no requirement for change in use. There is also no requirement for the establishment of a new unit of use to allow parts of a dwelling to be rented out, i.e. a dwelling in which a cage itself can be rented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1431	The Climate Communication states that the government will intensify ‘the energy requirements of the building technical regulation for passive house level in 2015 and almost zero energy level in 2020’. Already today, there are too few dwellings in Norway. Today's forecasts indicate that we're getting 28,000 new dwellings this year, while we need 40,000. This means that renting is also more difficult, as one does not build enough housing, because prices are high. With what is in the coming climate communication, building costs will be much higher. Does it not worry the Council of State that this will have a significant impact on the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1438	It is important that we get good access to new housing, and it is important that existing housing stock is kept at home, so that it can also be offered in good condition. Because it's a relatively small piece of the housing stock that's being newly built, most of the housing stock is the one that's already there today. We facilitate and also work for simplification and measures to increase our take-up of housing. Municipalities must assume their responsibilities to facilitate land use for those who want to build up. I am very happy that the industry takes both climate and environmental responsibility, and not – as the Progress Party – denies that it is the big challenge, but actually goes into it with life and desire, develops new technology and will play on teams with a forward-looking government to get a housing stock that is set up for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1448	The reason why we have promoted this proposal – it has not been taken out of the air – is that we have received a lot of enquiries, especially from some cities, such as Stavanger, where the enforcement of this legislation has led to a significant decline in the number of dwellings that are being rented out. In this book from SINTEF, they say that the rules are so many that they suggest that a company should be set up in order to rent out parts of their own housing. Then it'll be easier to deal with all the rules. Doesn't the Council of State see that making these rules easier, making it easier to rent out, would create more opportunities for those who would be absolutely helpful, namely those who have bad advice – both those who own it and those who rent it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1455	One point: As I also said in my post, you can rent out a part of your own apartment without approval today. It is when you want to expand the building, or when you want to rent parts that go beyond the building unit in which a cage itself is built, that the code goes into effect. In the housing message, we look at how we can simplify, and we're also going to see if we can do something easier in this area, but it has to go into a holistic housing policy and not like a tearful piece of a big healing. The important thing for us is to ensure health, environment and safety for those who are going to live in the dwelling. We cannot ignore the fact that there are also, especially in the cities where there is a crowded housing market, trends in a housing provider that should not be offered in the housing market, but there are usually dwellings outside the cage itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1462	Most of the time, you don't have to live with your tenant. The group that then hires out to someone you're also going to share a house with is a very special group, and a group that socially makes you have a relationship that makes you have a lot of social rules. This means that you can't take advantage of people the way you've seen some sharks do. This is often about people with bad advice sail, who are trying to get help to get the ends to meet in order to own their own house. Doesn't the Council of State see the need to look at it very lightly, because it's its own things that come in? There are not so many sharks that will rent out their sock apartment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1469	I'm a little uncertain about what the representative Skei Grande actually thinks about, because, as I've said several times now, there's no requirement to set up a new change in use or to rent out the building area of a cage, which is part of its own dwelling, and which will then be a piece of the social stuff that the representative Skei Grande talks about. The requirements will apply if you want to have a change of use and extensions of the dwelling, so I don't see the whole problem that the representative points to. If one is to have a self-contained building unit, the government is of the opinion that it should meet the construction requirements. I think at least most people will appreciate that the ceiling height is 2.2 meters, and that there are windows of a certain size – that these are the requirements I think both me and Skei Grande make for a good housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1474	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1477	I'm not going to keep any long posts, I just want to tell you that we in the Progress Party want to support the proposal from our friends in the Left. I would also ask the President to inform us that the Progress Party wants to support this proposal when we go to voting, so that voting goes well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1483	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1489	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1831	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1841	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1849	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 5-7, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Sections 4 and 9, as well as other relevant paragraphs of the Children's Act, so that father and father's responsibility are given the same meaning as mother and mother's responsibility.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to amend the adoption law to ensure that adopted children are entitled to a father and a mother.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Biotechnology Act in order to close the offer of semen donation from a foreign donor over time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1891	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the effects of the legislative amendments adopted at the Innst. O. No 63 and put this before the Storting in their own case." [[2007-2008]] The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1908	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the removal of the pater est principle in the Children’s Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1927	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure, in an appropriate manner, that a broad review of the law is carried out, with a view to equalising men and women’s responsibilities for children.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a separate case on how to ensure and strengthen further the liability of the father, and considering the following elements: how to ensure that all parents can be granted independent rights to take out parental leave for two weeks after birth/care take-over, ensuring that both parents can be called to the health centre to ensure that both parents can receive payment of child benefit, ensuring that the procedures for contact between kindergarten/school and parents ensure that both parents are invited to parental talks and meet to strengthen the provision of parental guidance across the country, including counselling and mediation aimed at parents after a break in life, continue cooperation with the labour organisations with emphasis on labour attitudes towards fathers and mothers’ left alerted that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1978	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to carry out a permanent exhibition or museum to make the castle’s many stored cultural treasures available to the public.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e1991	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2503	The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2517	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2531	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2539	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for the establishment of an independent specialised court which is able to resolve conflicts between the municipality and the state with binding effect’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2567	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, which reads: ‘Document 8:32 S [[2011-2012]] The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2626	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2636	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2646	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to review the regulations of the Planning and Building Act as soon as possible, with a view to facilitating the rental of a part of the owner-occupied dwelling and increasing the local action space in connection with the approval of such rental units.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-03.ana.ud625e2861	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
