ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e83	Honourable co-representatives! Former Central Party representative, Ola O. Røssum, died in May this year, 86 years old. With the passing of Ola Røssum, an important voice in the public silence. From the time he entered national policy in the 1960s, Røssum marked himself as a mad and angry politician. One of the things that remains after him is a proud modernisation of agricultural policy. He was, among other things, Aware that food producers in this country would have a growth in income in line with other occupational groups, and he was driving this important work as long as he was active in the policy. The legacy of Ola Røssum is motivation for today's politicians, who work for the same continuation today. Ola Røssum was born at the cemetery in Kvam, North Fron. He took education in agriculture and represents a proud number of agricultural academics who have set important signs in society. Ola Røssum represented Uppland on the Stortinget. After a period as an alternate from 1965 he became a permanent member in 1969. In his first two periods in the Storting, he was a member of the Church and Education Committee, where he was involved. marked himself as an important spokesman for the small schools, and he was a strong spokesperson in order for the new Norwegians to have their place in school and social life. His last period at Stortinget was a member and vice-chairman of the Agriculture Committee. Here, Ola Røssum used his wisdom, experience and competence to help Norwegian food producers. These four years he was also vice president of the Lamentations. In the Central Party, Ola Røssum was a bauta, a friend and colleague many listened to. At Stortinget he was solution-oriented and an important support player for many. Røsum was also vice president of the Centerpartiet from 1977 to 1981. When he left the Storting in 1981 after twelve years as a permanent representative, he also left as a central trust elected. The centre party honoured Ola Røssum with the party's honorary sign in 1994. We remember Ola O. Røssum and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e106	The representative, Oskar J. Grimstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e109	It is a pleasure on behalf of the representatives Per-Willy Amundsen, Henning Skumsvoll and myself to present a proposal for a big deal on the state of energy of the state of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e114	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e117	I have enjoyed it on behalf of the representatives of Vigdis Giltun, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself to promote representative proposals to adjust purchasing power in terms of cash support and child benefit in relation to the level of expenditure in the country of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e122	The representative of Svein Harberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e125	Then I am delighted on behalf of the representatives Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Bjørn Lødemel, Øyvind Halleraker, Anne Karin Olli, Anders B. Werp and myself to make a proposal on increased local autonomy in motor travel matters in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e131	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e145	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e161	On 6 June this year, I was in Alkallja, South Kurdistan, in northern Iraq. In the graveyard in front of me were several thousand women and children killed in 1988 in one of the most brutal and cowardly acts against humanity. At the entrance to the graveyard there is a sign that says: No access for Bath members. I understand why that sign is hanging there. Even today, 24 years after the assaults, it is offensive for survivors and relatives that people who were once responsible for these atrocities should come to this tomb, violate the dignity of the dead and arouse painful memories of the relatives and survivors. A few hundred meters from this graveyard, a monument has been erected above the victims. The SV delegation I had the pleasure of leading got a thorough tour of the monument, which at the same time is a documentation centre of the abuses. There are many pictures of what happened in this small village 24 years ago. I couldn't focus on all the pictures. It was too strong for me. Members of my delegation were very impressed by what we saw. The whole room was filled with pain and sorrow. There are limits to how much pain a person can bear. Some dried tears in the eye hook. But our pain cannot come near the pain that the inhabitants of this small village suffered in March 1988. We hit some survivors. It was a fascinating story we were told. We hope that what happened in Alkaly, never happens again anywhere in the world. In total, it is estimated that about 15 000 people were killed in these attacks, but that's not the whole story. The Kurdish people have for a long time been subjected to injustice and abuse, both in Iraq, Iran, Syria and Turkey. In Iraq, they have been denied the right to cultivate their language, culture and identity. It is a proud people who have stood up for their fundamental rights – recognised by the UN as universal human rights. This pride and determination was punished with violence, torture and killing during Saddam Hussein. In a well-directed and long-term campaign, called Al Anfal, over 180,000 people were systematically killed in Iraq. I want to express my compassion for those who have lost their loved ones as a result of these abuses. My delegation was delighted to meet the President of the Kurdish Parliament, the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of State and the Minister of Martyrs and Anfal. I see the latter sitting in the diplomatic booth today and monitoring the debate. It shows their commitment to their people. I would like to mention briefly that although we are today focusing on the suffering and rights of the Kurds in an area many call South Kurdistan, I am fully aware of the pain the Kurds are inflicted in both Syria, Iran and Turkey. People are denied their fundamental rights, refused to speak their language, cultivated their culture and fought for their rights. Thousands of people are sitting behind locks and hitting in many of these countries. Why did SV send a delegation to Kurdistan? Well, because we want to learn more about the wrong Kurds have been inflicted on them in the last decade. We want to establish even closer contacts with good forces in Kurdistan to find collaboration venues and ways we can work for: Norway can help to increase and disseminate knowledge about the painful history of the Kurds that Norway can help to recognise what happened in Alkaly in March 1988 as genocide. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: will the Foreign Minister contribute to the recognition of the attack on Alkalya and what happened there in 1988 as genocide? Norway can contribute to raising awareness of biological and chemical weapons in the world that Norway can work to prohibit and eliminate chemical and biological weapons that Norway can contribute to the benefit of the Kurdish people in both Iraq, Iran, Syria and Turkey of their political and cultural rights and that their human rights are safeguarded that Norway can help to address violations of Kurdish rights in international arenas. Chemical weapons have been used in wars since World War I, when these terrible weapons were first introduced and used extensively. This is also important to include, because even after the First World War, progressive actors in the world have tried to get these weapons abolished. The first attempt was in 1922 with the Washington Naval Treaty. Since 1928 we have had the Geneva Protocol which has made it illegal to use chemical and biological weapons in warfare. Nevertheless, this weapon has been used to a greater or lesser extent since then. The biggest and most brutal use was just under Saddam Hussein. The main argument used by countries to acquire weapons of mass destruction is not that they should be used, but that it should scare the opponents from putting them into service. Unfortunately, it is countries that still have chemical weapons, even officially. Although Russia and the United States have stated that they want to destroy their stocks, they still have the good fortune to confirm that they no longer have such weapons. It is my opinion that especially so large states as Russia and the United States send the important signal that such weapons are no longer acceptable, and that they themselves no longer have these weapons. SV is seeking cooperation with positive forces to achieve the goals I described instead, both in this Parliament, in Norwegian society and in other parliaments around the world. Today I am delighted to have a debate on these issues in Stortinget. Norway has good opportunities to contribute to the removal of chemical and biological weapons from the ground. We have signed and ratified the Kjemivåpen Convention and are members of the Executive Board in 2012 and 2013. This gives Norway both an opportunity and a considerable responsibility to prevent the spread of such weapons, and these weapons may be re-used at any time. Syria has admitted to possess chemical and biological weapons, and the regime has not concealed that they can imagine using them. I have therefore invited the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on his objectives for this two-year period. Knowledge is an important tool for changing the world. Therefore, it is important that knowledge of weapons of mass destruction — and not least the consequences of such use of weapons — is prioritised. The Kurdish people know what chemical weapons do, they've known this on the body. Fortunately, very few others have done so, but it is important that knowledge of the abuses such weapons have caused arises. How can we spread this knowledge in Norway and raise awareness of the evil these weapons represent? My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is about how we can spread information, but also express justice to those who have experienced injustice. I look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e212	I thank the representative Chaudhry for a very important question and for this opportunity to say a little about how I imagine working against weapons of mass destruction in the years to come. As is known over the years, universal agreement has emerged that the use of weapons which disproportionately affect the civilian population or which cause unnecessary damage or suffering to the counter-parties is to be considered as prohibited. From the Norwegian side, we have worked intently to support the development of precisely these rules. We have examples in the Geneva Conventions and their additional protocols. We have also been at the forefront of banning weapons that cause particularly great damage and suffering, such as anti-personnel mines, class weapons and chemical weapons. I am pleased with this opportunity to review the status of Norwegian policy, especially for the three types of weapons that we refer to as weapons of mass destruction: chemical weapons, biological weapons and nuclear weapons or nuclear weapons. The interpellant specifically addresses chemical weapons in his question. Both chemical and biological weapons are, as you know, prohibited. The origin of this ban is precisely the widespread use of chemical weapons that we saw during World War I, with the cruel consequences it brought, and the opinion pressure that followed. The 1925 Geneva Protocol forbade chemical and biological means of combat. The protocol did not prohibit manufacture and storage, and a number of countries reserved the right to return. However, the protocol provided a clear standard against the use of such weapons. The 1975 Biological Arms Convention banned the possession of the entire type of weapon, and before there had been any major problem. The Convention was the first in its kind and has no own verification regime. However, this has also contributed to a strong norm. The Convention is the starting point for extensive international cooperation that has become no less relevant in our time, with the tearing development we see in the field of biotechnology. Norway also actively contributed to the Convention which imposed a total ban on chemical weapons, which came into force in 1997. An important backstop for it was just the experience of Iraq's repeated use of chemical weapons, both in the war against Iran and against its own people, which we were reminded of in the questions of interpellant. The Convention prohibits both possession and use, involves the destruction of existing weapons and has a comprehensive verification regime. The Convention has its own organisation, Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, OPCW, with an executive board where Norway as the only Nordic country is a member for the next two years. The Convention has been an effective instrument against proliferation. The strong standard against the use of chemical weapons also works beyond the current Member States. To date, 188 countries have joined the agreement, and more than 75 pst. the world's known stocks of chemical weapons have been destroyed. Unfortunately, eight countries remain outside. It's a priority for the government to get these too to join. The destruction task is not completed. It has proved to be far bigger and more costly and demanding than what the United States and Russia initially took into account. Libya also has chemical weapons. Libya's destruction activities stopped during the internal conflict in the country, and the new regimes also found undeclared weapons stocks. Last year, when the Convention deadline for destruction expired, these three countries – the United States, Russia and Libya – presented detailed destruction plans for the remaining stocks. They must report on the progress in the future. It is important that commitments are met as quickly as possible. For Norway, it is a major priority that remaining stocks of chemical weapons are destroyed. Syria's admission that the country has chemical weapons, and then their suggestion that they could use them, has aroused disgust in the international community. Syria is not a member of the Kjemivåpen Convention. Norway and many other countries have asked the OPCW to follow the situation in Syria carefully and to have inspectors and the necessary resources available if the United Nations requests assistance on suspicion of use. We are pleased with the agreement that was just concluded between the OPCW and the United Nations to make such technical assistance more effective. We see from the example of chemical weapons that the creation of a norm and a regime that apply to all the countries of the world can often take a long time. It requires patience, but also systematic and targeted efforts. The government is ready to do this, even in the run-up to it, with very concrete results as a target. So finally, as regards weapons of mass destruction for nuclear weapons: the Non-Proliferation Agreement, NPT, entered into force in 1970. The agreement means that the nuclear weapons countries commit themselves to equip themselves, that the non-nuclear countries undertake not to acquire them, while all countries have the right to peaceful use of nuclear technology. The NPT is the bottom plan of our work for a world without nuclear weapons. The non-proliferation agreement has been under strong pressure for a long time. Since the agreement entered into force in 1970, the number of countries with nuclear weapons has almost doubled. Although we have to assume that that number is significantly lower than what would have been the case without the NPT, that is obviously not good enough. It has been difficult to achieve real progress in meeting the objectives of the agreement. In recent years, the danger of non-governmental actors being given access to weapons or weaponry has also been high and deserved attention. Today, the goal of a world without nuclear weapons has very broad support. But such statements will only count if they are followed by practical policies. From the Norwegian side, we have worked consistently for this in all contexts. From September this year Norway became a member of the Board of Directors of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA. The IAEA is the central control mechanism of the International Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT, for the follow-up of UN Security Council Resolutions and for the provision of credible information on nuclear programmes in individual countries. The IAEA has been central to following up worrying nuclear programmes in Iran, Syria and North Korea. It is essential that all countries show full openness and cooperate with the IAEA. Through the Board of Directors, we are intensifying our efforts to strengthen the role, capacity and independence of the IAEA and hence the global non-proliferation regime. Norway has also played a driving role in reducing the role of nuclear weapons in NATO, in line with an up-to-date understanding of the challenges of the alliance. NATO's new strategic concept, which we played an active role in designing, determines that NATO is also working for a world without nuclear weapons. The Chicago Summit summarised an important work in NATO, where the role of nuclear weapons in the policy of deterrence of the alliance has been reduced, the negative security guarantees of the nuclear states have been made available to NATO, and we have a separate committee that discusses the policy of the alliance in the development of disarmament and non-proliferation, including transparency and confidence in Russia in the field of corresponding nuclear weapons. We believe that this is a necessary first step towards removing these weapons from Europe. We are also closely monitoring the follow-up to the disarmament commitments contained in the Action Plan of the NPT Monitoring Conference in 2010. The five nuclear weapons states have met several times, now also with China as an active participant. But once again, it's the results that count. We must recognise that another ambition of the action plan, namely to create a multilateral negotiating apparatus for nuclear disarmament, is not yet fulfilled. Norway speaks with a clear voice when we promote the humanitarian perspective of international policy. We also do that when we call for a broad discussion of the humanitarian aspects of nuclear weapons. We are planning a conference in Oslo in March 2013 to highlight the humanitarian consequences of a nuclear detonation, for whatever reason, and our readiness to deal with such a situation in an efficient and credible way. These are issues that have no natural arena today. The plans have aroused great interest since they were first announced by my predecessor, Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre, here in Stortinget in spring. So finally, the interpellant's question about the recognition of genocide against the Kurds. Here I would like to point out that the Iraqi judiciary has established that the monstrous and massive attacks of Anfal against Kurds in Alkalya constituted a genocide. The government has the same perception of the events in the Alkaline as the one that comes out here. Let me add that genocide is a legal concept. Therefore, in cases where there is no judicial review, it would be difficult for the Norwegian Government to categorize an offence as genocide. However, where, in an independent trial in accordance with international law, a court has concluded that there is a genocide, the government will deal with this conclusion – as we do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e256	I thank the Minister for a thorough presentation. Let me first point out that the Minister of Foreign Affairs shares the view that the Iraqi judiciary has come up with on what happened in Alkobia, namely genocide. This is a step that I am absolutely sure the Kurdish people will find very satisfactory. It is important for all of us in the world to contribute to the control and limitation of chemical weapons, biological weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, which are not selective at all, and which strike everyone regardless of age and gender. We hope that what happened in the Alkaline, never happens anywhere else. That's why it's important that we learn from what happened in Alkaline. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this debate will then be: Are we in contact with the Iraqi government or the regional Kurdish government to learn some of these experiences? How are we going to use these experiences further? It's also important to raise awareness and knowledge of this evil at home. I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if we have an ongoing work on this, and how do we make the Norwegian population aware of the evil that these weapons represent? I am very happy to note, along with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that 75 pst. of these weapons have been destroyed. But it is worrying that there are still a lot of weapons of this class in the world. I see that two of the world's most important and largest countries, with power of impact and political influence, possess these weapons – the United States and Russia. I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to comment further on what kind of contact we have with the United States and Russia about this, and how do we use Norway's influence to eliminate these weapons also in Russia and the United States. Finally, the conflict-filled area in the Middle East, where Syria owns these weapons, and the conflict goes, and the regime can fall at any time. I want to hear how the Foreign Minister thinks about the chemical weapons and biological weapons that exist in Syria today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e273	I thank the interpellant, Akhtar Chaudhry, for good follow-up questions. I'll start by saying, as I mentioned in the post, that it's just the experience of the cruel abuses that Saddam Hussein had against his own people, who have created the new giver in this work. In this way, the experience is already at the root of both our work and much of what is done internationally. These experiences are, of course, a topic that we have discussed and will discuss with both Iraqi and regional Kurdish authorities and the follow-up work done there. They deserve the world's attention, and I am pleased with this occasion that we can both remember the sufferings that were being inflicted and work for it not to happen again, just as the people of Hiroshima and Nagasaki have played a role in reminding the world of the totally unacceptable effects of nuclear weapons if they are used. So the representative asked Chaudhry a question about Syria. In general, we are deeply concerned about the whole picture in Syria – about brutal abuse on the part of the regime against its own population, but also about a fragmented opposition and very much of what happens on the other side of the road. We see that what began as a democratic uprising evolves more and more into a civil war, and unfortunately countries outside Syria are involved in it. One of the things that worries me the most is if this were to lead to either the use of chemical weapons from the regime's side or by a regime collapse that chemical weapons come on crazy hands. It is therefore extremely important that the competent bodies and the United Nations have this very high on the agenda, that we have a crisis plan for this to happen, either in case of use during the current conflict or in case of a regime collapse. This is the great attention around, and I will personally contribute to greater attention around it. On this plane, even though there are deep disagreements about many other issues, the major powers share that concern about developments in Syria. Finally, the United States and Russia. It's true in the whole field of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons that we need a strong norm, but we also need strong verification regimes. There are countries that may have thought that they should once dispose of these weapons, but then they will be sure that in retrospect people will also know that others will not get them. This is why there is a link between the construction of norms and the construction of strong and good institutions that can be credible in the commitment of Member States to standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e286	The fight against weapons of mass destruction is one of the important tasks of our time. It is important to raise it in the political debate, whether it be chemical weapons, which the interpellant takes on profitably, nuclear weapons or other types of weapons with humanitarian suffering as a result of their use. In the case of chemical weapons and biological weapons, the framework — the ban — is in place, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been subjected to. But there's still a job to do. Several countries have not committed themselves. More old stocks have not been destroyed. And so chemical weapons were used in Alkaplana in 1988, as the interpellant assumed. So there's still a lot to do to prevent such a monster from happening again. On the nuclear side, it's further ahead. After three decades of progress and hope that the arms spiral of the Cold War could be snuffed out, the first decade of the new century became the lost decade of the disarmament struggles. The 1970s gave us the non-proliferation agreement and the first agreement to reduce the strategic arsenals, SALT I. The 1980s, which ended with the fall of the Berlin Wall, meant the end of the cold war, and the 1990s gave us a test stop, START II, Landmine Convention and a halving of military material in Europe. We received an encouragement at the end of the lost decade behind us: the convention against class weapons, where not least Norway with the foreign minister at the head was a decisive driver. The new START II agreement between the United States and Russia, which reduces the number of weapons deployed by one third, was also a step in the right direction. The new strategic concept of NATO requires efforts to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons and that the alliance should not use or threaten the use of nuclear weapons against countries that have signed and comply with the non-proliferation agreement. A goal of the next revision should be for NATO to refrain from the first use of nuclear weapons. Also positive is the launch of a process against Russia to reduce the arsenic levels of cortical nuclear weapons. The government's plans for the conference next year, focusing on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons, are an approach that can bear fruit. During his visit to Japan last year, the Foreign and Defence Committee was also in Hiroshima. It made a strong impression to be on the spot where the first atomic bomb was blown up – see the model showing the destruction, which hit an innocent civilian population first, and meet one of the victims. It was awful. The humanitarian consequences were cruel. Terror bombing was a nearby thought. The Workers' Party has programmed to work for a world free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. This is also reflected in the government's platform. That's a goal we'll never have to give up on. But the most serious threat to the proliferation of nuclear weapons is now in North Korea and Iran. It's scary to think that the leaders of the two countries should be able to sit with their fingers on a nuclear button. As Napoleon said, "Anyone who says everything can do anything." It is an international responsibility to prevent this from happening. It is therefore also worrying to see that the Israeli Prime Minister does not exclude a unilateral Israeli military action against Iran. Israeli writer David Grossman has in several articles warned the government of Tel Aviv against such an action. Israel has the right to defend itself – but not to attack its neighbours. For with what right can Israel, which has nuclear weapons itself, use military power against other countries that wish to obtain the same? What should the country do if neighbouring countries like Saudi Arabia or Egypt also want to acquire nuclear weapons? Are these also to be attacked? The work to prevent Iran and North Korea from acquiring nuclear weapons must be carried out by the international community. It's the only way we can succeed, and it's the only safe way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e322	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising important questions here in the hall today. Before I go into the very interpellation theme, a little visit to the representative Hansen: it's a very understandable warning to Israel about a possible attack on Iran. I share that concern far along the way. But we must say that what is special about Iran in this context is that they have come up with declared threats and want to eradicate the State of Israel. It makes the relationship with Iran very special, and it's understandable that Israel is concerned. With regard to the attack on the Kurds, which the representative Chaudhry is very generously addressing, and which the Foreign Minister is exemplary in defining the concept of genocide in relation to, it is incredibly important that we do not forget, and that we put knowledge of this into the history books, into the teaching, into all relevant contexts. We have done that in the case of holocaust against the Jews during World War II, and we do that when we experience things as cruel as the representative Chaudhry describes in detail, and as it is important to give us a collective memory, and not least in order for young people to understand why many of us are engaging in politics – in order to prevent that kind of situation. Nor do I have any problem sharing the interpellant's concern about the situation of the Kurds in general. The land area of Kurds is divided into several countries and, in particular, the situation in Syria is difficult today. It wasn't easy before the civil war broke out, but it's very demanding now. Iran, as I was in the past, is also a country where many Kurds live, and where the situation of human rights in general and of Kurds and other ethnic minorities is very demanding. I want to give the government recognition for the work on various types of weapons – weapons of mass destruction and the class weapons have been mentioned. We have believed that the government has done exemplary work here. So to what the Foreign Minister also spent a lot of time on: nuclear weapons. It is and remains one of the greatest challenges of our time. We have nuclear weapons near the Norwegian border in the Barents region. An application that has done a lot of good, perhaps more quietly, not least to take care of a number of nuclear submarines on the Russian side, is the so-called Nunn-Lugar program, which has been going on for 20 years. This is a cooperation with mainly American funding, where they have entered Russia and taken care of nuclear submarines and other nuclear weapons that should be destroyed and destroyed in a proper way, and not least ensure that this does not end up in the hands of elements that we do not want to have this kind of capacity. The Russians now signal – according to the information I can read in the press – that they want to end this cooperation. It's worrying. Here, together with the Americans, of course, we should try to get the Russians to continue working together and continue the good work that has been done here. The Russians believe that they may now have the capacity to handle this themselves, but we believe that such removal of nuclear weapons is best done in cooperation under international surveillance, and where we can ensure that this type of weapon is destroyed, so that they cannot be used again for all future. This is how we will overall reduce the capacity of various weapons of mass destruction — in this case nuclear — but the historical lessons learned here will also be drawn with regard to other weapons, such as biological and chemical weapons, which have also been taken up in the debate on interpolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e339	Of course, it is a very important topic for the representative of Chaudhry to address today, and he asks directly: What role can Norway play in these questions? It is clear that Norway has played and can still play a central role, and let me just say that I share the foreign minister's approach and responses to the interpellant in this area. As a member of the Kjemivåpen Convention, Norway also has a unique opportunity to influence and prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It is quite right, as the representative Chaudhry claims, that such weapons are unfortunately still being produced, and they have until recently been in use. It must be tragic for the Syrian people to record the paralysis of the world – as defined by the Minister of Foreign Affairs as the practical policy – when the Assad regime slaughters its own people and even now chooses to threaten the world with weapons of mass destruction, if it is now intervened from outside Syria. It is very difficult to see who in these situations – in practical policy – supports Syria and ensures that tyrannicals continue to plague their own population, and once again document that the world is paralysed when major acts such as China, Russia, Iran and others, for example, choose to say no. Unfortunately, there are such countries as these and others. which is decisive and determines the rate of progress attempted. The representative Chaudhry himself pointed to the suffering that the Kurds have suffered, and he described, quite touchingly, the events in Alkaly, in the attacks that the Kurds were subjected to. They are a persecuted and plagued people who still suffer a homeless life, even 25 years after Saddam Hussein's chemical gas attack. The Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is a very successful international agreement in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation. The Convention was launched in 1997, and most countries have ratified the Agreement and the Convention. With some exceptions like Syria, North Korea and others, many have nevertheless chosen to destroy their arsenals. The Convention prohibits chemical weapons and imposes destruction of the remaining stocks of these weapons. Unfortunately, history has shown that weapons of mass destruction are most dangerous when they are held in the hands of anti-democratic and unpredictable leaders. These are still known by a lot of them. The setbacks in the fight to get rid of these weapons are many. 11 September 2001 is such an example and led to what the representative Svein Roald Hansen described in an excellent way as ‘the lost decade’, the start of a lost decade. Nuclear weapons as deterrents are still an applied and known principle. Nevertheless, the Start I and Start II agreements have shown that results can be achieved. So far — especially from the great nuclear powers — it has been a willingness to realize that the proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious threat to international peace and security. The goal of a nuclear-free world is well-founded in the UN and not least in NATO. NATO has on a number of occasions, for example: in NATO’s 2010 strategic concept, it was established that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile technology is an increasing threat and one of the main challenges facing the alliance in the future. Nevertheless, as you know, there is still a long way to go. The representative, Høglund and others, have been involved in the relationship between Russia and the United States and that this has become cooler. We have a neighboring nation, Russia, which has an increased military budget this year at 25 p.m. During a two-year period it shall increase by up to 60 pst. They have 600-700 tactical nuclear weapons on the Kola Peninsula, and they are carrying out nuclear bombings about 100 miles from the Norwegian border. We must – as Mr Höglund and others have been involved – ensure that the relationship between Russia and the United States does not become cooler, but that this dialogue can continue and that the Nunn-Lugar agreement can be continued. There is no other nation that may have more to do with continuing such cooperation than just Norway, which is neighbouring the world’s largest stockpiles of nuclear waste and weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e362	All first I want to give praise to the interpellant for drawing out two important themes. The first is the fight against weapons of mass destruction, and the second is the genocide of the Kurds in 1988. At the same time, I would like to commend the government's work on weapons of mass destruction. There has been a cross-political consensus that the government has managed in a wise and good way, where the Norwegian voice has been central to the international debate on weapons of mass destruction. I would also like to say that the Foreign Minister's comments on this matter were wise and good and have the full support of the Right. But I want to start at a different end when it comes to the debate. I want to start in Iraq. It's a lot of positive that's happened in Iraq in the last few years. The country has democratic elections and a democratically elected government – not without problems, but with considerable progress. There has been a transfer of security responsibilities from foreign forces, mainly American, and over to Iraqi security forces. The justice system in Iraq now has an independence that it has never had before. It was clearly seen when the Alkomja massacre and genocide were convicted and it was classified as genocide. Iraq now has a distribution of power that they have not had for a long time, and there is a great deal of autonomy in the Kurdish areas. That is good for the Kurdish people, and that is good for Iraq. Then I would also say that the picture that we are now drawing of the Kurdish people when we discuss them and all the abuses that history has seen against them is like the largest ethnic group without a nation state. After World War I the Kurds were promised their own country by the Western powers, but when Mustafa Kemal introduced East Anatolia into the Turkish Republic, this possibility fell away. In 1947, with Soviet support, a Kurdish republic with capital was established in Mahabad, Iran. The Republic survived for one year, but it is a republic that still has great cultural and spiritual significance today. From 1991, around the first Gulf War, there has been a real area of autonomy in the areas of Iraq that has a majority of Kurds in the north. Kurdish control has been extended and the Kurds have been given central positions in governing bodies following the parliamentary elections both in 2004 and 2005. In 2005, the Kurdish regional government with its seat in Hewler was recognised in the new Iraqi Constitution. Barzani is today president of the autonomous province of Kurdistan. In other words, there has been a significant improvement from the time during Saddam Hussein to today. I believe that a working Iraq with real power distribution is looking at as a model also for Turkey, Syria and Iran, where we can no longer see the Kurdish population being systematically undermined and discriminated against. I'm not going to go into a big discussion about Syria here, but yet there are two points I want to raise. The first is that it has been raised beyond any doubt that what is happening to acts of war in Syria is a real civil war. But what I want to stress is the importance of Kurdish voices in the movement of democracy, that the movement of democracy in Syria has, and must have, clear Kurdish voices that bring in the element of a real division of power when the conflict is over. The last one is Turkey. Turkey has an estimated 55 pst. by the Kurds of the world in their territories. It is systematic discrimination, but the situation has greatly improved in recent years. Both in Kurdish language and in the current situation, with refugee camps, we need to see a Kurdish policy that changes against discrimination and for real tolerance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e381	SV was formed on resistance to nuclear weapons. I'm proud to be part of that party. Our resistance is still strong. That is why I am very pleased with the signals that came from my colleagues. We are impatient about the abolition of all nuclear weapons in the world. I freely share the views of the representative Svein Roald Hansen. We have to do everything we can to ensure that Iran does not acquire nuclear weapons. That's the SV. It's perfectly clear. At the same time, I agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen that no other country should use weapons against Iran, because then we have a problem, then we have a Middle East that is on fire. And I share the representative's view of Israel, which itself has nuclear weapons: with what moral force will they use weapons against Iran so that they do not acquire nuclear weapons? The best thing that can happen in the Middle East is that the entire Middle East will be nuclear-free, and Israel will dispose of its weapons. Then we get a Middle East that's nuclear-free. There is SV very clear, and we will continue to work for it. I register and thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for having good contact with both the Iraqi and the regional Kurdish governments to learn from and share the experiences of Alkalya in order to avoid such weapons being used elsewhere. I am pleased to note that there is a broad consensus in the Norwegian bigotry that chemical weapons, biological weapons and other weapons of mass destruction are an evil for the world and should be abolished as quickly as possible. I am very pleased that Parliament gives the government its full support in the work done by the government. I am also very pleased that the government will hold a conference in Norway next year where we will use our influence and our commitment to make the world a more peaceful place than it is today. Then to Syria. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the situation is inconclusive. There are too many actors. We don't know who they are, we don't know what agenda they have, we don't know what they're going to do with Syria today, much less what they're going to do after the regime's fall. That's why we need to stay focused and keep in touch with the world's actors, so we're ready to assist so that there's a peaceful development there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e396	I thank you for many and good speeches on one of the world's most important and demanding questions. I want to acknowledge – as was mentioned by several opposition representatives – that I also greatly appreciate the broad cross-political consensus, because this is a matter of importance where, as a relatively small country, we are very well placed to stand together, so I thank you for what was said here, and also for the ongoing cooperation. I'd like to say a few more words about the very question of Alkalya and the genocide. It was such that the massive attacks on the Kurds in Alkalya in Northern Iraq were first investigated by the Human Rights Watch in 1992 and 1993. Their conclusion was that the assaults were a genocide. Then we had a criminal conviction in the Netherlands in 2007 against a businessman who had provided Iraqi authorities with raw material for the production of toxic gas, and the Dutch judiciary believed that there were strong indications that a genocide had been committed. And so, just after that, the specially created national court, Iraq's Supreme Court, was given a sentence against five people, among other things. for participation in genocide committed against the Kurds under the Anfal attacks, which they considered to be genocide. So it is the legal process and interpretation that Norway supports when we also join – as the interpellant – that this constitutes a genocide. Then to the representative Svein Roald Hansen. It is very important that we continue with the one that has succeeded in the lost decade – I fully agree with the description of the 'lost decade' – in the disarmament arena, and that is to put the humanitarian consequences at the centre. We've seen that by taking some disarmament questions out of the traditional forums and setting the humanitarian angle, we can get new ones. That is exactly what the government is trying to do when we are now working on a major conference in Oslo on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. It is not in itself a disarmament conference, but there is reason to hope that it will create a new dynamic in that work. As far as cooperation with Russia on nuclear clean-up is concerned, I would say that there has been long-standing cooperation. I have participated in it myself for several periods. It has been demanding, but important. There has been a lot of progress in lights and cleanup in old marine bases, and it is not unreasonable that Russia should gradually take greater responsibility for it itself. But what we're going to continue to do is to support independent Russian surveillance agencies – that is, the Russian state's nuclear oversight. It is important to have an internal dialogue in Russia on how to do this. Finally, I would like to say that I agree with what has been said about the situation of the Kurds in a number of countries deserve much more attention than the one who likes to get. It is a theme we address every time we have occasion to do so in our relations with the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e424	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e433	The Progress Party's Kenneth Svendsen, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Jørund Rytman and Christian Tybring-Gjedde propose a plan for how electric cars using new technology can keep a predictable charging code over time. In the June 2012 climate agreement it was unanimously defined – with the subsidiary agreement of the Progress Party – a roof in 2017, or 50 000 cars sold. No other fuel types were mentioned in the decision itself. The right had a similar representative proposal in 2010, promoted by Nikolai Astrup and signed. On several occasions, the government has announced a switch of vehicle purchase fees to a more forward-looking charging system. That is strictly necessary. Today’s charging system is not well organised for technological developments in the automotive industry that are becoming more and more rapid. Unfortunately, the government's work to date has only led to flickering on the old system in order to adapt, among other things. to the new type of in-hybrid plug, which is, in fact, provided with a better parking solution in today's state budget. But, unfortunately, the tax system is reactive rather than proactive. The proposers have a proposal that they themselves are going to put forward. There is a significant development of automotive engine technology, whether it operates on gas, electricity, hydrogen, or so far on ordinary petrol and diesel. There is considerable uncertainty among proposers about the duration of these exemptions for vehicles other than electric cars – which have been resolved in the climate agreement –. As regards the tax advantages for electric cars, as mentioned above, it was decided in the context of the 2012 climate agreement and, fortunately, the government has no plans to change them now. However, it has been announced several times that in view of the development of sales of different vehicles, the government must return to Stortinget with a new model. We have noticed in the committee that a number of new environmentally friendly fuels have been introduced in recent years. We are going to have an interpellation debate on not too long on environmentally friendly fuels in the transport sector – biodiesel, biogas, bioethanol, electricity, of course, EcoPar, EcoFuel and hydrogen. With the current level of the levy, the CO2 tax exemption will not be enough, as these climate-neutral or emission-reducing fuels will be competitive with traditional fossil diesel and petrol. Therefore, exemptions from other charges may be necessary during a then pre-defined introduction phase. It is important for the Right to realise new climate-friendly products that there are stable and predictable regulatory framework conditions. The removal of the exemption from the car diesel tax for biodiesel is one example of the opposite. During the night, the tax exemption was removed, which has caused major problems for biodiesel producers. The transport sector was the sector accounting for the largest share of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in 2008, with a share of 32 pst. of the emissions. At the same time, the transport sector is the clear majority of the sectors that will be outside the European greenhouse gas allowance trading system from 2013 onwards and will therefore be subject only to national instruments and responsibility for these reductions. From the right, we point out that the biodiesel case and the EcoFuel/EcoPar case, which are currently under way in both the legal apparatus and the government's regulatory change, create uncertainty about the framework conditions, also for others operating with climate-neutral or emission-reducing fuels. There is therefore a need for a review of the fuel charging system in order to create predictable and stable framework conditions that can ensure the future. The right point is that if we introduce a temporary exemption from non-climate taxes on new fuels at an introductory stage, it is early to indicate how long this exemption will apply, so that manufacturers and consumers – and possibly manufacturers of additional new fuels – can adapt to this. It's actually by model from the 2012 climate agreement. It is necessary to establish predictable criteria for the nature of the fees to be imposed, the nature of the charges to be removed for new climate-friendly fuels and the duration of the temporary exemption. I take on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left up proposal No. 1, while others will certainly take up the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e459	Yes, the majority position of the committee is already under consideration. The representative of Arve Kambe has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e464	In the government budget for 2012, the government gave a comprehensive review of the car charges. The aim was precisely to ensure predictability with regard to the evolution of future charges and to give individual charges a fundamental anchor. The review announced a switch to a more general fuel user charge. The user charge shall cover the cost of the car park to society through accidents, queues, noise, road wear and emissions which are harmful to health and the environment. In 2015, the exemption from user charges shall be evaluated. I believe that this review provides the basis for a comprehensive, principled and predictable policy. The car charges are complex and must take account of many considerations. If you grab one place, it can make a difference in other areas as well. In the process of the review, the Ministry of Finance had contact with a number of organisations with an interest in car charges. This process showed that more and partly conflicting considerations need to be balanced. It is right to use the charging system to contribute to a more environmentally friendly new car park. Strengthening the CO2 profile of the one-off charge has been an important part of national climate policy, and the conversion of the one-off charge to focus on CO2 emissions has helped Norwegian car buyers to be environmentally friendly. This policy is a success story. Average CO2 emissions from new cars have been reduced from 177 g/km in 2006 to 130 g in the first nine months of 2012 – a reduction of more than a quarter. Since new cars are on average on the road for about 20 years, this will have consequences for Norwegian CO2 emissions for a long time to come. There is an important reason why the government has set ambitious targets for reducing CO2 emissions from new cars. The changes in the CO2 element of the one-off charge in 2012 make it even more profitable to choose cars with small CO2 emissions. Local NOx emissions are now also highlighted in the one-off fee. In the climate agreement, there was agreement to place further emphasis on climate and local pollution in car charges. Cars that have both low climate emissions and low local emissions are thus particularly effective. This policy is working. In September 2012, electric cars amounted to 5 pst. and hybrid cars 6 pst. of the sale of the new car. It is also positive that predictability is created, both for industry and for the drivers, by ensuring that the user charge for alternative fuels does not change until 2015 at the earliest. The climate agreement agrees that the current tax advantages for pure zero-emission cars will continue beyond the next accumulation period, so that the number of pure zero-emission cars does not exceed 50000. This is a positive contribution to a predictable charging policy for electric cars. On that basis, we believe that the document should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e506	On several occasions, the government has announced a switch to a more forward-looking charging system for the purchase of vehicles, and this is most necessary. Today’s charging system is not well organised for technological developments in the automotive industry that are accelerating. Unfortunately, the government's work to date has only led to flickering on an old system to adapt. Among other things, we do. put on the new type of plug in-hybrid. Thus, the tax system is reactive rather than proactive. It should be amended accordingly. We must have a forward-looking charging system. It is important to stimulate a modern, environmentally friendly and safe car park, which is adapted to the transport needs of most people. The Norwegian car market is small on a global scale, but can nevertheless be an interesting market for car manufacturers with new technologies. Today's purchase fee for cars is made up of some CO2 taxes, some taxes on weight, some taxes on power, as well as NOx taxes. In each of these terms, there is a significant progress, which is already striking out strongly for ordinary family cars. This particularly affects large families of children who depend on a slightly larger car. Many families with children are therefore forced to choose a small car instead of a car that meets their needs. There is considerable activity in the automotive industry to develop new car models and use energy carriers other than petrol and diesel. There is a significant development of automotive engine technology driven by gas, electricity and hydrogen. In the past, cars running exclusively on electricity have been small two-seats with significant travel limits. Developments in this area, including: with new battery technology, going faster and faster. Both the potential driving distance and the weight of the car increase gradually. It is now possible to buy larger family cars, with a large range, which only run on electricity. This makes this type of car more applicable to the large mass that buys a car. Other car brands have solutions where you have an electric car with a fossilly driven auxiliary engine. The Progress Party believes that the development of electrically driven cars is positive, as such cars are very energy efficient, and reduces the emission of environmentally harmful substances in urban areas. Electricly driven passenger cars are currently exempt from charges borne by other passenger cars, but these are from several teams, including by the government, uncertainty about this exemption has been created. There are also several types of hybrid cars in the market, such as: hybrid normal cars powered by an electric motor and an internal combustion engine. In addition, there are plug-in hybrid cars that are charged via the mains power supply and where someone has a separate power supply that charges the battery. All these hybrid cars have a reduced fee. However, most of the adjustments to the charging system were not adjustments in advance, but became the way the road was made. For all cars with either a tax exemption or a reduced fee, there is considerable uncertainty as to the duration of such exemptions. This creates considerable uncertainty for importers, traders and customers. Cars with such a new technology are often more expensive than conventional petrol and diesel cars. Since the ticket for many is managed by financial arrangements, it is important to have predictability of different costs both at purchase and during the operating period. Increased uncertainty about the future framework for new cars with alternative technologies can quickly lead interested car buyers to get on the fence. Several environmental and car organisations, including: Bellona and the Norwegian Automobile Association, have called for a long-term exemption for electric cars until 2020. The proposers believe that the authorities must contribute to the inclusion of such long-termity in the framework. In the climate agreement, the government has exempted charges on pure zero-emission cars until 2017, subject to a maximum of 50000 cars. But the big question is what to do with all the other cars, cars that are used as an ordinary car – it is not clear. This type of car still lives in uncertainty and depends on decisions in the State budget in November on how the fees for 1 January of the following year should be. Not only is the actual charge on the car uncertain, we have also seen that the fees on environmentally friendly fuel have exploded overnight. I am thinking of both biodiesel and gas for the propulsion of cars. In an deployment phase, it is crucial that new, environmentally friendly fuel sources are exempted or heavily reduced. New fuel sources are usually expensive to produce, including: due to low initial sales volumes, and both producers and consumers who are required to make large investments require a certain predictability. It is therefore necessary to establish predictable criteria for which fees are to be imposed and what one would exempt from charges and, where appropriate, the duration of such a regime. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e531	The representative then addressed the proposal he himself mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e534	I would like to ask for the floor to underline some of the points made by the representative, Dag Ole Tegen, in his statement. This is a special proposal we are discussing, because the proposal claims that there is a tax regime that is not working and that is not predictable. The background to the claim is that these one-off charges are to be evaluated in 2015, and then you do not know what can come next. But it's true to say no reason to create uncertainty about whether you can get a tax regime that goes in the opposite direction to what we have, in the case of low-emission cars. The climate communication, which is behind the red-green government, clearly sets itself the objective of reducing average CO2 emissions from new passenger cars to 85 g/km by 2020, i.e. a clear overall lead to a significant reduction in emissions by 2020. Furthermore, the Communication states that, in the case of the car tax, which we are now discussing, further emphasis should be placed on climate characteristics and local pollution. This means that, to the extent that there are changes in the regime compared to the current one, there will be further reinforcement in order to achieve the effects that this tax regime has already achieved. With regard to the claim that it is unforeseeable, I have seen an organisation that should have a bearing on this area, namely Norwegian Elbil Association. They have written the following on their website: ‘Norwegian politicians are best placed in the world to create a framework for electrification of road transport. During the last twenty years, all Norwegian governments, agglomerations and municipalities have taken measures to facilitate the introduction of electric cars.’ Here we get the brilliance from the Norwegian Elbil Association – we are the best in the world. To the representative of the Progress Party Svendsen and the proposers: it should also be noted that the tax regime we have has effects, that Norway has the highest electric car sales in Europe per capita – the highest electric car sales, that is. Electric car sales are rising considerably, but not only: we are also third in Europe in absolute numbers, after France and Germany. Norway accounted for almost one fifth of the electricity car sales in Europe. I think it is positive that the opposition's representatives, and perhaps especially the Progress Party, who have not been particularly concerned with the climate problem, now want to commit themselves to a good regime, but then you should get better involved in the matter than you have done. It's going very well, if Norway accounts for almost one-fifth of the electric car sales in Europe. And that's because of the measures of this government, the tax regime, to get the electric car sales up. Politics is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e555	The changes in car charges in recent years have been successful. The average emissions of CO2 have been reduced by 24 pst. in the course of five years. Norway, as everyone knows, is also a transit country for electric cars. There is a result of tax exemptions and other advantages, such as free parking and bomb duty exemptions, which come to the attention of the owners of these cars. I feel apathetic to the proposers when it comes to establishing long-term arrangements, as positive, but at the same time I think it's opening doors. In fact, last year, the size of the stock deals with its review of charges, driving gear and fuel and joins the progress plan for changes to be phased in. We carried out a budget increase in the financial committee last week, in which the Norwegian Automobile Association said in the context: ‘The amendments proposed are based on a comprehensive review of the charging system with which NAF is satisfied. We recommend that the Stortinget give a clear signal that this is a common policy that will be followed independently by a political majority. This will increase predictability for consumers and the market, and could further promote road safety, the environment and the consumer economy.» The opposition calls on the government to ensure that work is done on the conversion and in such a way as to divert the signal given to both consumers and industry about how new measures will be implemented. It is doubtful whether this is a wise strategy. The size has recently addressed the climate message, and we have provided important guidance for the development of a more environmentally friendly car park. The government budget for 2013 also proposes changes to the single fee that have been well received. Illness can be good, but it's also important to be careful. In the course of changes in the car charging system and the fuel to which the government has added up and got the Stortinget's connection, we have been on the run in a way that I experience has a wide connection. We are therefore following the plans made for a cleaner car park, a better environment and greater road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e572	Sometimes it makes sense to take a look and see what actually happens. In the area we are discussing today, for example. in the case of electric cars, Norway is a leading country. We should be proud of that, and we should also be proud that there is a broad political upswing that it should be that way. We have made major changes to the car charges in order to reduce the emissions of the new car park. That's what results are. Earlier in the debate, reference has also been made to actual figures — that during the period 2006 to 2011, CO2 emissions from new passenger cars have been reduced from 177 g/km to 134 g/km. That's a reduction of about 27 pst. in a period of less than 6 years. In the budget currently under consideration in Stortinget, we are further strengthening the environmental profile. Greater emphasis is placed on CO2 emissions and NOx emissions. We reduce the highest entry points of the CO2 component by 5 g/km, and the reductions for cars with CO2 emissions below 110 g/km are increased. The NOx emission charge is increased from SEK 22 to 35 per mg/km and less emphasis is placed on the engine power of the charge. It helps, in my view, to give us an even better structure on this charging system. The changes we are now proposing will in particular reduce the charges for the most environmentally friendly cars, for example: apply to hybrid rechargeable cars with both low CO2 emissions and low NOx emissions. It is the second year in a row that the government proposes to reduce car charges, and it is primarily the re-registration fees that go in that direction. Today, electric cars have a number of tax advantages and user benefits – exemption from VAT, one-off and user charges and a low annual tax. In addition, they can drive in the collective field, and they have free bombing, free parking and free fuel, i.e. charging stations. Overall, this provides significant economic benefits for electric car buyers and electric car users. There is probably also some of the explanation for the high electric car sales we have in Norway compared to very many other countries. Until September this year, 3,000 new electric cars have been registered. It represents about 3 pst. of all new passenger cars during the period. It occurs in a country that is relatively scattered but with some large population concentrations. It's also important to bring it with you in this picture. The number so far this year is higher than for the whole of last year, and there is an increase if you look at the period from 1 January to September 2011. Compared to the same period this year, there is an increase of about 140 pst. Only in September this year nearly 600 new electric cars, representing 5.2 pst, have been registered. of all new passenger cars in September. One must not go back beyond 2010 because the sales of electric cars during a whole year were lower than in September this year. In total it is now approx. 8 000 electric cars in Norway. It was announced in the 2012 state budget that the government does not have concrete plans to change the advantages of the electric car. However, it was announced that overall framework conditions for electric cars have to be assessed in the years to come in the light of developments in the sales of such vehicles. In the context of the climate communication, to which reference has also been made so far in the debate, all the parties here, with the exception of the Progress Party, have agreed to retain the current tax advantages of buying and using pure zero-emission cars for the next peak period, i.e. until 2018. This applies if the number of pure zero-emission cars does not exceed 50 000. In my view, there is now a predictable and long-term charging system and a framework for how to develop this further. I therefore do not see the need to make further plans for a longer-term charging code.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e620	I've been at Stortinget for almost 16 years. In many of those years, at least in the last eight years, it has been announced by the government that a new charging system should be introduced that is forward-looking. It still hasn't come. It is not forward-looking to focus on the weight of a car. It is not forward-looking to focus on the effect of a car. It is future-oriented to focus on what comes out of the exhaust pipe on a car. The government hasn't done that yet. They have made changes to the old system that has been good – they should have boasted – but they have not come up with a forward-looking charging system. They have constantly, as innovations have come to pass in the automotive industry, been patching up an old system. When are you going to come up with a forward-looking system that you can deal with for many, many years to come, including new technologies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e629	The representative Svendsen said that a forward-looking charging system would take account of CO2 taxes and impacts. That is exactly what we are doing in the new charging system with regard to the one-off charge on cars. It is putting greater emphasis on the CO2 component and in such a way that low-carbon cars become cheaper. As late as in the draft budget that was presented on 8 October, we put less emphasis on the power component, which also means that cars with a certain engine size, but with low emissions, actually get a double advantage, to use that expression. In my view, it is a forward-looking and good charging system. Then it could be that there are car types coming into the market, for example. hybrid cars and others, which require one to look at adjustments in the charging system. But it is also a good move in the sense that there are still new engine technologies that cause emissions from new cars to decline. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e640	The climate agreement introduced a period of compliance until 2017, in order to say so, for electric cars and framework conditions. That's right very pleased with. At the same time, the government, as the representative Svendsen tells us, has always said that there will soon be a comprehensive review of the charging system, and anyone who does not pay the user fee must eventually pay such a fee. I think the vast majority of people on Stortinget really agree on that. Some of this proposal is just about to know when, how long the introduction phase will last and such things – it will not. Both the Right Party and the Labour Party – and to the extent that the Advance Party – have been very interested in raising the proportion of cars going on gas. I'm from Rogaland, where both the Stavanger region and the Haugesund region are offered gas through pipelines – reasonably easy to get hold of. For many of those who own such cars today, the use value is uncertain. Are they going to buy a car that goes on gas, or are they going to wait until 2013-2015 to see what happens? What is the gas status?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e650	As we wrote in the current year’s budget, where we gave a very broad review of the charging system, the starting point was – both for what we wrote and what we did – what has now become a more well-known expression within the charging system: predictable and long-term framework conditions. It is pointed out that by 2020 one will have a system where one has a general user charge, and then the plan is that you will have a charge linked to the energy content of the fuel. It's the long-term path that the government is going after, and then there are some posts in the meantime. There will be an evaluation in 2015, and we have it special with electric cars, which is 2017, as it is in the climate agreement. I think it makes sense in this period to also have stable framework conditions, in the sense that the exceptions that apply today should be assessed in this context, and that nothing should be done to them until one comes to this new station, among other things. in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e655	The challenge for the government and government parties has certainly been the election experience in how to handle different charges in this area. The diesel tax is perhaps the most blatant example, where one year people recommend buying a diesel car, while a few years later they say it was a bad idea, and they get to pay for it now. That's what gives some challenges, to say it very carefully, to those who manage a policy, up against those who actually notice the consequences of it. My question is based on the experience of the department and the government with the conversions actually made, so I simply ask: based on the experience, what will the Council of State have been the most effective conversion to achieve the common goal we have of multiple cars going on environmentally friendly fuels?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e662	First of all, what I want to call a little misunderstanding: we've never encouraged people to buy diesel cars, but we added the charges in 2007-2008, which made diesel cars relatively cheaper, because they released less CO2, and because one had a system that put more emphasis on CO2 emissions. I would say there are two things that are quite important to emphasize. One is the effects that have just been derived from the conversion of more emphasis on the CO2 component, which has led to a significant decrease in CO2 emissions from the new car park – that is good. The second is that the experience we have with the measures now targeted at electric cars seems to have a very good effect. It shows that it is possible to use the charging system to both stimulate behaviour and achieve other important objectives than to provide the treasury with good income, including: environmental objectives. But income is important in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e681	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e684	First, until the last state council said, "He said he didn't encourage the drivers to buy diesel cars, but at the same time, the state council has said on several occasions that they use the charging system to create incentives." When you make incentives to buy diesel cars, isn't that an invitation to do that? What made me take the floor was the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen, who painted a pink picture of the government in the case of electric cars in particular. Electric cars have had tax exemptions as long as I have been at Stortinget, so there is nothing this government has agreed to do. We have supported the schemes that are for electric cars, and they seem to have been very good, but both manufacturers and sales appliances have said that they will have predictability until 2020. 2017 is good – not as good as 2020, but nevertheless it is a good order. But you can't stop there, because the problem is all the other cars. They say you have predictability. Diesel cars were mentioned: First they lowered taxes on diesel cars, then they discovered that there was a lot of pollution with it, and then they increased the diesel tax the following year, so it was not profitable. Then you have the biodiesel tax, which was increased overnight, the gas charge was increased overnight – I could have mentioned several things. One boasts that there is a future-oriented charging system that allows us to have a significant reduction in CO2 emissions. This is true, but – and I would like to get an explanation for – the CO2 emissions in Europe have been at least as high, if not higher than in Norway, and those countries do not have a charge on cars. How have CO2 emissions been reduced in these countries if there is a charging system in Norway that is responsible for the reduction here? I could imagine having an answer to that – I doubt I will get it. There has been a bad treatment of diesel cars, as you said would be so very environmentally rich. When this was dealt with at Stortinget, I went in and looked at the maybe the hardest place in the world in terms of emissions: the state of California. The cars that were cheaper during the reduction of diesel taxes in Norway were on the California Red List that year the government said this was a very good idea. The following year, the light went up for them, and they had to increase the diesel tax in order to counteract emissions. Is it forward-looking?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e706	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e720	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e729	Today’s VAT legislation is designed to reduce the rate of retail trade offering food. With this proposal, the proposers support in so far as that scheme is concerned, but the essence is to introduce equal rates of VAT on food, regardless of whether you buy them in a store, in a restaurant or choose ‘take away’. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. Unfortunately for the proposers, this means that there is an overall committee – minus the Progress Party – behind the vote. At the same time, restaurant and catering establishments have to operate at two different rates, depending on whether the food is to be eaten on site or taken with them and eaten at home or elsewhere. Such elements of the system make it both unnecessarily complicated for traders and frustrating for consumers. For example, eating at the restaurant will have a VAT of 25 pst. So it's 15 pst. if one takes the food, even if it is initially about the same meal. This problem arose as a result of the government's reduction of the food tax, which today is 15 pst. A side effect of this was that a bread purchased in a bakery – where a bread is usually more expensive than in a regular store – got an even higher rate of VAT than if the same consumer had bought a bread in a store. A total mass thought that this was an unfair consequence, and thus it was opened up to some kind of ‘take away’ tax, or ‘ta-away’ tax, as it is called in the Ministry of Finance. The Committee points out that there are currently different rates of food consumption – 25 pst. and 15 pst. – and that foodstuffs placed on the market as part of a food service shall be chargeable at a general rate. Otherwise, the Committee shows that VAT is a general tax on the consumption of all, most goods and services and is an important source of income for the country. This suggests – as underlined by a unanimous committee – that the basis for charging is therefore broad and that the number of rates, exemptions and special schemes is minimised. A multi-rate charging system and exemptions help to increase the administrative costs of the charge, which are fully covered by the operators themselves. The proposers point to the fact that, as has been said, restaurant and catering establishments operate at two different rates, and they believe that this complicates both business and consumer frustration. Any introduction of a reduced rate of 15 pst. However, the problems of delimitation between food served and food included, but alcohol — which is often a prelude to the places where the food is served — are to be subject to a normal VAT rate, in which case many enterprises still receive two rates. The Committee takes note of the fact that the government estimates a reduction in the VAT rate of 15 pst. in the case of serving services, the proceeds will be approximately EUR 2,8 billion. kr. The major budgetary implications mean that such a proposal may have to be implemented in budgetary terms. The government hasn't done anything now, and I don't think that from the Right side we're going to prioritize it in our alternative state budget, but this may well be a leak on what's going on in the Progress Party's alternative state budget, since the proposal has now been promoted. The Committee considers that there is no economic basis for reducing the currently existing VAT rate for serving. We refer again to the government's opinion, because many other countries have reduced VAT on food. The problem in many other countries is that they have a very high unemployment rate. Norway has, if you ask people who run restaurants and cafes today, a high level of turnaround in the labour market. People are there for a short time, and there is often a shortage of people in the food industry. So using unemployment is maybe a point for other countries, this can make it easier for people to get a job in the industry. Fortunately, in Norway it is a good labour market, and one will not have the same effect here. I would also say that a side-effect of a reduction in a VAT rate does not necessarily contribute to the full participation of customers in a tax reduction. It often disappears in a vortex between wholesaler, supplier, restaurateur and others. So it may not necessarily benefit consumers. So, in this context, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to introduce reduced VAT on catering services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e752	I want to be brief, because this is a matter on which a broad majority stands, and I can support his conclusions. The VAT is designed as a general consumption charge, which should have a broad basis and be exempted. VAT shall be calculated at a general rate of 25 pst. unless expressly provided otherwise. For food, the rate is 15 pst. Food traded as part of a food service shall be chargeable at a general rate. Should have a reduced rate of 15 pst. on serving services, one could reduce the demarcation problems between food served and food included, while at the same time making the legislation more difficult for serving places serving alcohol at a normal VAT rate but not offering ta-med food. At the same time, VAT is one of the largest revenue items in the State budget, and extending the range of reduced rates will have considerable costs that should be discussed in an overall context together with the rest of the State budget. There is also no reason to believe that the whole reduction of charges will benefit the consumer. So, in line with what Mr Kambe has said, the Labour Party will also support the Committee's recommendation that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e765	After hearing the two previous speakers, it doesn't look very happy with the proposal. Today’s VAT legislation is designed to reduce the rate – 15 pst. VAT. This is a system supported by the Progress Party, and once the red-greens have previously increased their limits, the Progress Party has consistently voted against the increase. The retail trade system is easy to implement and easy to control as all products have the same rate. This is not the case for restaurants and catering establishments, which have to operate at two different rates, depending on whether the food is to be eaten on site or included. Such elements of the system make it both unnecessarily complicated for traders and frustrating for consumers. For example, catering at the restaurant will have a general rate of value added tax of 25 pst. However, if you want to take the food with you, you will have a reduced rate of VAT of 15 pst. However, initially it is about the same meal. For serving places, today’s charging system is beneficial for those who are only designed to bring food with them, while it will be a challenge for those who have a combination of serving and ordinary grocery stores. For restaurants and restaurants this is therefore a disfavor in the charging system, without any reasonable nutritional or environmental explanation being said. The facility with the combination of ‘take away’ and the serving site, in order to provide both services, leads to additional work and imposes additional costs on businesses. It also often leads to extra littering in the streetscape by throwing more disposable packaging on the street. In addition, the proposers are of the opinion that this VAT system is anti-consumer and creates irritation for customers. This scheme also creates a need for increased control in those places where a boat can take the food or choose to eat it on the spot. This will apply in particular to the many food chains that supply ‘solid food’ – McDonald’s, Burger King and other chains or single businesses. These companies have to be sure that someone who says he or she will take the food, actually does. If not, this could lead to reactions from the authorities of the equations, as they've only taken 15 pst VAT, against taking 25 pst. The system is therefore extra bureaucratic and leads to increased costs for both the driver and the control authority. In order to ensure a level playing field in food sales and to simplify the charging system for both business and consumers, the Progress Party considers that food should be treated equally in terms of value added tax, irrespective of the facilities of the restaurant or the restaurant. I'm taking up our proposal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e784	Then the representative Kenneth Svendsen mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e787	Reduced VAT on food to make basic household costs easier to bear. Food, as you know, and reduced VAT rates are not a strange phenomenon, but a common way of managing distribution in European countries. It may well be irritating and bureaucratic for serving places to consider two different VAT rates for food included and food served at the place, but as long as we keep a full VAT on alcohol, two tax rates must be applied to the companies that have it. The progress team believes that today's food charging system is discriminatory in pure food serving places compared to places that supply food that is included. This argument includes, inter alia: have been produced from at least five of the weak points which compete with service stations and kiosks. So I'm not going to reject the problem. The Ministry of Finance has calculated a proceeds of 2.8 billion. kr if the VAT on services is reduced from 25 pst. to 15 pst. It is also worth noting that the guests in serving places in the near vicinity enjoyed the tax reductions when they were introduced into our neighbouring countries. The gain remained in the companies. The representative proposal to introduce equal value added tax for food of 15 pst. is formally about assimilating served food with food that is included from the serving site. In reality, however, the cost of ignition and serving reduces the fees. This can be difficult to see as a natural consequence of the rationale for the reduction in the rate of the food tax. We introduced a reduced fee to keep food costs down, not least in the case of families with children. It is not as easy to find arguments to subsidize restaurant visits.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e798	I think the case rapporteur made an exemplary contribution, so I can limit myself to a few comments. Firstly, what is quite obvious is that VAT is one of the Community's most important sources of income. It accounts for about a quarter of all tax revenue, and I think that the fee is the easiest one to comply with when it includes as many goods as possible with a general rate and as few exceptions as possible, or in other words, a robust and good system. In general, it is also the case that both the tax base and the tax base should be wide, with minimum rates, exemptions and special schemes. It is true that the introduction of graduated rates or new special schemes into a system will result in increased administrative costs both for those responsible for the management of VAT in the public sector and for the individual enterprise, which will then have a more complex structure. It might be that it introduces 15 pst. to the provision of services, as proposed by the proposers, means simplification. But on the other hand, which was also discussed by the rapporteur, this could mean that it would be more complicated in relation to, for example: the provision of alcohol — which was referred to by the rapporteur-general. The second thing I want to mention is that this means a huge loss of income for the community – at the base of 3 billion. kr – and I am not sure whether this is one of the areas that should be given priority in order to reduce taxes or taxes. But I will leave it to those who are going to deal with their alternative budgets in a little bit. The last thing I want to mention is that in Sweden and Finland, VAT has been reduced on restaurant services, mainly as an employment measure, and experience, among others. from Finland, the average price reduction was estimated to be about 5 pst. However, if the whole tax reduction had benefited consumers or restaurant guests, prices should have been reduced by about 7.5 pst. It lies in the fact that there was also some kind of subsidisation of a particular industry. I think this is a relatively expensive employment measure. What has been estimated in Sweden is that a reduced rate for restaurant and catering services involves a cost of approximately DKK 600 000 per year. In Norway, we do not need to provide such incentives to increase employment. Here, employment is high and unemployment is low, and it suggests that a similar action in Norway would probably have an even lower impact than what we have seen in Sweden and Finland. I am pleased with the setting that exists, and will once again just say that here there is a broad consensus that this is not a priority measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e815	There has been a special debate to follow up on, because there are several people who have talked about that background of reducing food tax in their time, among others. was helping families with children and others to make things more reasonable. But this proposal is not about increasing any VAT. This proposal is about removing a completely meaningless exception. I'll try to explain why. If a person or family goes in and eats at a restaurant, you get 25 pst. VAT if you are sitting there. But if you're going to take the food out and go somewhere else, i.e. That you don't buy mineral water or other things and you sit and eat in that environment, so you have to pay a premium so that you don't want to use the establishment, but you take the food with you somewhere else. For SV, this should be an environmental argument, for example. that it is a little strange that you have to be paid extra, or subsidized, to take the food away from the restaurant. When it comes to whether it's the restaurants or who's left with the profits, you could use the exact same argument if you reduced the overall food tax. Obviously, that kind of thing you want to focus on. What happens then if the person who bought the food suddenly thinks about it and says, "No, I want to be here anyway, or maybe on the way out just sit down at a table and eat?" What this could mean then is simply that if you get a check, that restaurant could actually be taken under the law for violation of the VAT law. This just shows how this law actually doesn't work after what you originally thought. It can't be that you have to be premiered not to use the restaurants. That is what this is actually about, and it is a distortion of competition compared to take-away activities. We see that there is no majority in favour of this proposal. The Council of State argued how much each job would be subsidized if this had been done. But this is not about subsidising neither jobs nor anything else, it is actually about being able to compete on equal terms and remove part of the law that was introduced in its time, which clearly has effects that are contrary to common sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e828	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e842	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e851	I thank the Committee for its good cooperation. In this case, too, the Progress Party is opposed to an overall committee. The proposal concerns a request from the Progress Party to remove the charge on boat engines. With effect from 1 January of this year, the Act on Excise Duties provides for a levy to be paid to the Treasury both on introduction and on the domestic production of boat engines of at least 9 hp with NOK 155,50 per hp. That charge also includes engine blocks for boat engines, but not electric motors. The charging basis is the power of the boat engine measured in hp. I have made a quick search in stores that sell boat engines and found out that on average, plus/minus, the fee will be 10 pst. the selling price. So it's not an essential part of people's spending post when they buy a boat engine. The fee of 10 pst. on an engine of 50 hp is NOK 7 775. Marine engines supplied for use in vessels registered in e.g. the ships registers NOR and NIS are exempt from this charge. The same applies to boat engines supplied for use in vessels registered in the corresponding registers covered by the EEA Agreement. But this proposal applies, as I understand the proposers, to recreational boats. Both rescue and other auxiliary boats have this exemption today. The proposers believe that a charge on the boat engine leads to boat owners not buying a new engine. Moreover, it negatively affects boat sales, it is claimed. Furthermore, the proposers point out that the likelihood of breakdowns and rescue operations increases by people using old engines, which are also unnecessarily noisy and using too much fuel. The Committee otherwise indicates that the boat engine fee is levied on imports and domestic production. The boat engine charge is mainly, like very many charges, a fiscal charge that intends to provide revenue to the country. It has been estimated that in 2012 this fee will give the country 230 million. kr in income. The removal of the levy would therefore entail a loss of income which must be taken into account in the State budget. From the Right, we are not going to do anything about that charge in our alternative state budget, but I expect the Progress Party has put it into its alternative state budget since they have promoted this proposal. In 2011 it was sold in Norway about. 15 800 outboard engines with an average of 40 hp per engine. If we think that the tax rate was around NOK 7 000 – 8 000 for 50 hp, perhaps NOK 6000 – 7 000 is an average Norwegian tax rate on a boat engine. In addition, it was sold approx. 950 inboard engines. The majority of the committee points out that both cars and boats pay a fee when buying and using, and sees no purpose for boats not to pay a motor tax. For example, it is paid. CO2 tax on fuel for boats to cover the cost of CO2 emissions. The majority of the Committee also notes that, contrary to the purchase of a car, there is no weight component for the purchase of a boat. There is already a favourable charging system. At the same time, the boat engine charge can help reduce noise and speed by shifting demand to smaller engines. The majority of the Committee would also point out that new engines will lead to reduced noise and reduced fuel costs. In fact, it would be an incentive for purchasers to save costs when purchasing a new engine. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee notes that the Excise Committee proposed to introduce a progressive rate structure into the levy itself. It has not yet been followed up by the government. The evolution of this charge has not been real in the last few years, but only followed the index of consumer prices. The majority of the Committee cannot support the proposal to remove the motorboat fee. Some industries have made contact. I chose not to mention them in the comments themselves, but the boat manufacturers who are going to export are initially not obliged to pay a fee. But if a boat is put on the water for a test, for a test drive with a foreign customer – and we hope that we will get to export Norwegian boats – it will have to be paid a hp fee, even if they are just going to try the boat. I say this because it would have been okay for the Minister of Finance and the Directorate of Customs and Fees to have a more modest approach to trial driving if the boat were to be exported. It is normal that when you are going to buy a boat for a few hundred thousand kroner, you are allowed to test it first.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e887	The representative Kambe did an arithmetic here that was obviously wrong. He forgot, of course, that there is VAT on taxes, which means that you get up to NOK 10 000 here. This means that a boat engine that cost NOK 50000 could have cost NOK 40000. This is a significant reduction in fees. The fee was introduced in 1978 as a temporary fee, like so many others, for the sale of engines for pleasure boats from 9 hp up and up. At that time the tax on boat engines was 30 kroner plus VAT per hp. The fee for boat engines was introduced to dampen the sale of boat engines and to reduce the emissions from the engine. In 2011 it was sold approx. 15 800 outboard engines with an average of 40 hp per engine. In addition, it was sold approx. 950 inboard engines. The environmental benefit hoped for in 1978 has changed to the opposite, as new engines emit significantly less than older engines. Today's charge means that more than one engine keeps the old engines longer than normal, leading to increased pollution and more noise from the old engines. It can therefore be said that the original reasons for the imposition of the fee do not exist at present, and that the fee on boat engines today works against its original purpose. The fee for boat engines has been adjusted several times, it has even been doubled on one occasion. In recent years it has increased only with the consumer price index. However, the fee per hp today is NOK 155.50 plus VAT. The fee for boat engines is a purely fiscal charge that does not benefit boat users at all. The fee for boat engines has several negative consequences. Some may be mentioned: The tax is an environmental problem because many are postponing the purchase of a new, environmentally sound engine because of the charge. The new boat engines are more environmentally friendly in two ways. They have significantly lower exhaust emissions and thus emit significantly less than older engines. They have significantly lower noise levels, leading to a reduction in noise at sea. The fee leads to lower safety because many defer the purchase of a new engine due to the fee. This can be illustrated in several ways: Old engines are getting worn out. This leads to a higher risk of engine failure, which in turn increases the risk of costly rescue operations. A high price means that the purchase of a new engine is delayed. Boats are purchased with too low engine power due to the cost-effective charge. This may lead to lower safety due to poor handling characteristics with low engine power. Unlike cars, the manoeuvring characteristics of boats are poor if the engine power is too low. The charge also leads to the conversion of used car engines into boat engines, resulting in environmental and safety consequences, as these engines pollute more, and they will not be as safe as new engines. The fee leads to the smuggling of boat engines because the fee is a strange fee, like so many others. The fee costs the purchase of boat engines for teaching — for them there is also a full fee. This also applies to engines installed in classrooms and never used in boats. Boat engines have a significantly higher load than an equivalent engine in a car. This means that the need for replacing boat engines is greater. It is therefore common that a switch engine in a boat several times during the life of the boat, which is not common for the corresponding engine in a car. This means that a car engine is charged at the first time, while a boat engine is charged every time it is replaced. While a car imposes on society the costs of road construction, society does not incur the costs of boat infrastructure. The majority – The Working Party, SV and the Center Party – say themselves in their comments at Innst. S. No 28 for 2012-2013: ‘The consumption charge shall cover the total external costs of the car park on the part of society.’;» [[accidents, queues, noise, road wear and harmful emissions]] This was something the representative Tegen made a point of in a previous debate today. For boats, this fee is also paid without it being used specifically on the road. I would like to have the position explain why boat owners have to pay a user charge on petrol when they themselves say that the user charge will be used to cover the costs that the car park incurs on society. It's going to be interesting to get an explanation for that. I am referring here to the proposal that the Progress Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e928	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e931	Nor in this case is it necessary for me to keep a very long post. I might start with a little story. This fee dates from 1978, as a so-called temporary fee. Some time before the 1970s, a temporary charge was also imposed on tractors used in forestry. After the escalating decision on incomes in agriculture, there was an overinvestment in tractors, and I remember that in a meeting that I attended, there was a delegation that would get rid of this temporary fee. They were informed by the chairman of the Agriculture Committee: there are few examples in Storting’s history that a temporary fee has not become permanent. That is why it is right, as the rapporteur says, that today this is essentially a fiscal levy, which must also serve a number of other important purposes. It is true that there are charges both for the purchase and use of things moving, i.e. on the road and at sea, and that you have a charging system that has a similar structure, where you have both a purchase fee and a user charge, I believe is a sensible and good charging system. So it's like boats also charge the community costs. Noise is one example. There are accidents and, of course, emissions occur. So it's important that you now have a charge that can at least work towards a buyer of engines, for example. with fewer horsepower and engines that contribute to less sea speed and thus perhaps also fewer accidents. I am therefore pleased with the setting available in this context. Then I see that this fee may also have some results that there may be reason to look at, without suggesting anything specific in that area, but there is one area mentioned by the case rapporteur, trial driving for export – we will look at it – but it may well be that there are demarcation problems that make it not that simple anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e944	I just have some comments. At first, it was interesting to hear the Minister of Finance ridicule his own policy and tell stories about how bad politics is and how meaningless it is. That's interesting in itself, but the Minister of Finance will have to take it with him. I had hoped there had been some more present, but I hope someone hears it. I thought I would react to the text here. The majority say, among other things:\t\t You can change the «Removal of the levy will mean a loss of income for the country, which must be covered by increasing other taxes or by reducing the expenditure of the country.» Are there the only two alternatives available? Or is there a third option that you don't buy the same number of shares in Coca Cola? It's a third option that's not here, but it's clear that it's an alternative. And it's probably not that it's so bad to be able to cut somewhere else that it's almost impossible to get it to, because it's actually possible. There's three alternative ways to do it. Norway is not a deficit enterprise. So you can imagine, what do those who own boat engines do, with 230 million. If they had received the money they should actually have, which they have paid in? If you think that money's being burned up, they're going to disappear, they're going to be put in Coca Cola abroad? No, probably not. Of course, they are used in some way in society, they generate new income for society, new taxes for the country — called dynamic effects. So every time there's a tax relief or a tax relief, the dynamic effect is more or less. It also has to be factored in. I am aware that the Minister of Finance does not like it, but it has been demonstrated. It's proven that it exists. It's quite natural that if you get NOK 100 more in income, you'll probably use it. You want to save something, and then you want to spend the rest. It will generate more revenue to the public. Then it goes on to say in the text from the majority: ‘The majority do not consider it appropriate to exempt boats from the boat’s engine charge, even if the use of the boat is also subject to tax through the fuel charges.’ Appropriate for whom? You have to say who it is appropriate for. This is right behind it. Appropriate for whom? That might be what you should explain and not just say ‘appropriate’. And then we're left with the setting: ‘Furthermore, the majority notes that, unlike in the case of the purchase of a car, it is neither a weight component nor any other element that affects the purchase of a boat.’ No, no, no. There are several charging components in car charges. Is there any reason not to reduce the unreasonable charge on boat engines for that reason? Nope. And I have to say that I am surprised that the Right both in rhetoric and in content agree with the Workers' Party on a case-by-case basis in terms of fees. I remember a few years ago when they said it was hip-hop – when the Progress Party came along with it. Whether it was the Right or the Working Party: have a good time with the Working Party and hip with the Right. It is exactly the same wool, and it now turns out that the Right is just as happy in the fees as the Workers’ Party is – and not least when, according to the State Council’s statement, the fees are now a fiscal charge. So it's called a tax. Didn't come up with all of these reasons that aren't real and that we're rebutting time and time again. Call it a tax!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e975	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e991	I was a little late to take the word in the previous case. I could have intended to answer Tybring-Gjedde's comments, but I think the normality will be restored with this interpellation, and that this debate will reveal that there is great disagreement, at least in this case, between the Right and the Labour Party, and that the Progress Party will agree with the Right. The background of the interpellation is a little strange. Before the summer we had a representative proposal from the Progress Party as a real majority in Stortinget, in my view, supported the content of. It was the GTL that had been exempted from the car diesel tax, but it was thought, as the Customs and Fee Directorate had ordered anyway. So it was like if, for example, Natural gas, parts of biodiesel, ethanol and electric cars were also thought to be free of this type of fuel. The amazing thing about this was that the news burst at the same time that the diesel ban would come in Oslo, perhaps in Bergen, just because of the large NOx emissions. This was the case with EcoFuel, EcoPar, which was a fuel that would dissipate everyday emissions in the big cities. Then, unfortunately, the producer of this filed the State while the case was pending in Stortinget, and of course it did not exactly help to resolve the matter politically. But the strange thing about this -- not just strange, it might start to become a rule -- is that the Ministry of Finance is losing cases in Norwegian courts, whether it's in the courts or in the law of law -- and very often in the Supreme Court. Then – that is to say, the Directorate of Customs and Fees’ understanding that this fuel should be dropped from the user fee and thus be competitive and competitive out of diesel, which has a lot of NOx, in the big cities. Then the Ministry of Finance in the summer – just after the judgment in the District Court – sends a change of regulations to be heard. This amendment is subject to the condition that, regardless of what may be done, whether the judgment becomes enforceable or — in the disfavor of the department — one must at least ensure that, if one loses again in the courtroom, a regulation must in the meantime be in place to ensure that the trial is not of any practical significance. The government doesn't look very good. It doesn't look – what to say – the whole thing is very good. But in the meantime – to protests from a lot of people – the regulation, as I understand it, is adopted by the government. I Prop. 1 LS for 2011-2012 has been clarified that fossil natural gas is considered to be an alternative fuel, even if it emits greenhouse gas: ‘Daytime user charges do not cover all fuels. Today fossil gas is [[LPG and natural gas]] Thus, it is not the opinion of the majority of the population that the change to which the administration — and the ministry — is adding will result in a user charge. Nevertheless, these charging authorities are now going to introduce, by implementing the regulatory change without political treatment in the Grand Duchy, by choosing to do so through a regulation. NAF has protested against the regulation that is coming, and is concerned about the need to facilitate alternative fuels and new technologies, for the benefit of the environment and the climate. The proposed tax changes, says NAF, will make the emergence of new alternative fuels for diesel cars impossible, since by definition they will have to be imposed user charges in any case. New fuels that have a higher introduction cost because a preliminary cannot make money on them will then have major problems and thus not be produced, will not be researched on, etc. With the policy signals given, it now appears to be somewhat incomprehensible that it is proposed to impose charges on a fuel that could have a significant positive impact on local urban emissions. The problem of a diesel ban in Oslo and other cities underpins and makes visible the importance of providing simple alternatives to diesel. However, instead of promoting a fuel that can contribute to solving the NOx challenge, a regulatory change is proposed that will effectively eliminate such alternative and environmental fuel from the market. This will in practice mean that the fuel can of course be offered on the market, but it will be so expensive that no one will be interested in putting it into service. The pace of replacement in the Norwegian car park is low, regardless of the changes made to the one-off fee in recent years. The average age of passenger cars is high and in 2011 was 19.2 years. That means that it takes a long time to get something done, that we will have to live with today's cars far into the future. Therefore, much more attention should also be paid to the environment and climate in relation to existing car fleets. Therefore, it is so sad that EcoPar, as an alternative fuel, has been completely wiped out by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry has therefore proposed – in order to avoid the professional discussion of the category to which this fuel belongs – that it be defined from the boiling point. An overall opposition – the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – has asked the government at least to look at what the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance have announced in several budgets, that a new review of the charging system will take place in 2015. For example, natural gas must be exempted until then — perhaps also in the future, but at least until 2015. I am quite sure that there is a real majority in the Storting – when they are taken from the Workers' Party, before the Minister of Finance did so – who would grant this exemption until 2015, and deal with it in the same way as similar instruments, when this has a huge environmental impact on the local environment. According to the Eco-Foundation Zero, this fuel would provide an emission reduction of 5–45 pst. in the case of NOx, 25-40 pst. reduction in particulate contamination, 40-60 pst. reduction of hydrocarbons and 40-80 pst. reduction of carbon monoxide. On this basis, the fuel should not actually have a user charge. The seller of the fuel considered this to be good practice and sold the product – without user charge – to the customer. Then the Customs and Fee Directorate comes in retrospect and collects all the money, while the money is no longer available. This means that a company that has done a great job is sent to the right to change. And that's why it gets extra fluent, I think, because the Ministry of Finance when this company takes the Directorate of Customs and Fees and the Ministry of Finance to justice – and wins against the Ministry of Finance at first instance. The judgment is not valid enough, but I think this speaks a little because the Ministry of Finance could have been a bit lenient with the interpretation and for example. including this in the same way as natural gas, with the exemption from user charges until 2015, when the major review comes. In the meantime, the sample size of the country would be very manageable. We have said several times – today and other days – that the user charge will cost the costs that road traffic incurs on society. An electric car takes up space and makes noise, a gas car does, a bioethanol car does – all this does. These account for a certain percentage of accidents, queues, noise, wear, dust swirling and harmful emissions to health and the environment. Well, that's good, I think everyone agrees. The Minister of Finance has, of course, announced the need to look at this by 2020. In other words, you have plenty of time to include just new fuels. The right is also little concerned about what signals the government sends out to the research environments that are now researching alternative fuels, and to the investors to which they are going to go when they think of something clever. In order for this to come out to consumers, investors are needed. The company we've been talking about has, among other things, — Ironically, it has been supported by Innovation Norway; it is now another case. However, it shows that a person must have confidence that those who are going to research, develop, invest and get it out to consumers, in a start-up period have a certain – to say – incentive to have some tax advantages, otherwise one would like not to research. And so environmental emissions are increasing instead of decreasing. Unfortunately, we saw the same thing about biodiesel. I believe that the government has a great job to do here. That being said, I would say I'm a little excited about the discussion, for the prescription is there. We're going to have a little discussion and we're not going to use the trial as part of the inter-pelling debate. What strategy does the Council of State have in order to facilitate research, development and sales of more alternative fuels in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1045	The question is what strategy I – or, more specifically, the government – have to facilitate research, development and sales of more alternative fuels. The question also refers to an administrative matter relating to the levy on synthetic diesel. The State considers that the product in question is a mineral-based diesel oil, which is subject to the fuel user fee, in accordance with current legislation. The company EcoFuel disagrees with this. That is why the case has been brought before the courts. There it is still. In addition to this, it would not be right for me to comment on this individual matter. With regard to the proposal that was being consulted this summer, this is the result of a longer process in which one has wanted to clarify the current legislation. The proposal is not intended to extend the charging obligation to new products. Vehicle pollution represents a challenge both globally and locally. These are issues that the government is actively working on in several areas. As we discussed earlier today, through several changes to the one-off fee, we have arranged for the choice of environmentally friendly cars to be profitable. This has contributed to the fact that the cars sold in Norway today have significantly lower emissions of CO2 than before. With the introduction of a NOx component into the one-off charge, local emissions have now also been taken into account, which also gives the purchaser an incentive to choose a vehicle with lower NOx emissions. In my view, the conversion of the charging system may be the most important measure to achieve a more emission-friendly car fleet. The user charge on fuel shall be set at the total cost incurred by driving on the road by society in the form of accidents, queues, noise, pollution and road wear. Local pollution represents a small proportion of these costs and, in my view, the need to reduce local emissions cannot justify a full exemption from the user charge. Local pollution is mainly a challenge and a problem in built-up areas, and a derogation will therefore be a small targeted measure. As we discussed in the Questionnaire yesterday, I believe that opportunities for local authorities to take local action, for example. cow pricing can be a much more targeted measure than a general removal of the user charge. If a person is granted many exemptions and reduced rates on individual fuel types, a few distortions which, in the worst case, may result in an investor in a vehicle and infrastructure that is profitable only because of the exemption from the tax. So it's consideration to take so far in both directions, which it's important to bring with it. We announced in the current year a conversion to a more general user charge by 2020, where all fuel types are to be subject to an energy user charge. We'll stick to that. The exceptions currently in force include: for gas, high-melting ethanol and hydrogen, shall be phased out, and we have no plans to change the user fee for alternative fuels before 2015. In that case, the exemptions in the user charge shall be evaluated. In addition to the user charge, fuel is also charged CO2 tax. The CO2 tax makes it profitable for the individual to use less fuel and to choose fuel with lower CO2 emissions. This is in line with the main objective of the tax, which is to reduce emissions of gases, which will reduce global climate change. The size is free to adopt exemptions from individual products and applications under the EEA Agreement. In my view, new exemptions will be a step in the wrong direction, which I cannot join. The tax exemption for synthetic diesel is unlikely to contribute to significantly smaller local emissions unless large parts of the fleet use such fuel. It seems unrealistic that it can happen in the short term. In the longer term, it is necessary to put into service vehicle technologies that provide both lower global and lower local emissions to air. That's why the electric car strategy that you've set up, that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy has now come to the fore, is so important in that context, and we were also involved in a case earlier today. The sale of electric cars has, as I said, gone down, and the number of hybrid cars has increased sharply. Not only do I believe, but I am quite sure that this is due to the conversions that have occurred in connection with changes to the one-off fee. In my view, fuel taxes and the other car charges are not as accurate as they are in order to help solve local environmental and health challenges. These are challenges that need to be solved in a different way. Such an action, as I said, can be cow pricing. Purchasing means that road users have to pay to use certain parts of the road network at certain times. The objective is to correct the weaknesses that general charges cannot solve. The government has facilitated research, development and sales of alternative fuels, including: through Transnova. There is work to replace fossil fuels with alternative fuels or energy carriers that give lower or no CO2 emissions. A goal of Transnova is to generally contribute to the transition to more environmentally friendly modes of transport and reduce the overall transport volume. The government is also a driver of biogas production, and there is a wide range of investment in that field. Both Enova and Innovation Norway support the development of biogas plants in Norway, both large plants and small garden-based plants. I believe that the government is pursuing offensive climate and environmental policies, the aim of which is both to reduce local air pollution and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions nationally and globally. An important tool is to have predictable legislation that people can deal with over time. I believe that moving forward in the direction we have already taken in the context of the one-off fee is an important measure, and not least to strengthen research and development both in order to produce alternative fuels and also in general transport patterns, transport costs, etc. Many of these measures have also been mentioned and are to the extent within the agreement now reached on climate policy, and one looks at the development of the transport sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1098	I said in my first post that I think the process has been little dressed for the government, and I will repeat that. Just after the District Court ruling, where the government lost its way in the courts, proposals were sent to the hearing, during the summer holidays. The letter of hearing refers to two judges, Norethyl and Agder, who are in favour of the Ministry of Finance, but do not mention two other judges: the Franzefoss judgment of the Borgarting Law Court on 20 August 2008 and the EcoFuel judgment of the Oslo District Court on 24 April 2012, which runs counter to the State’s view and where its understanding has not been supported by case law. The government now expanded the consultation period as it understood that it was not so nice to have a short consultation period in the public holidays. Of course, the government has to pay tribute to that, but in any case it has not changed the reality of it. I believe, in view of the leakages that have occurred from the workers' party’s staging representatives, whether on TV or elsewhere, that there is a real majority in Stortinget just to let these fuel types drop the user fee until 2015, and therefore we could have a good basis. I mean, to sharpen the message a little, that the finance minister and the government have done a bad political craft. They've let the case go with it. It could have been solved at a significant earlier time, when the problem arose between the Customs and Fee Directorate and this company. Then the Minister of Finance and the Government also received political enquiries both from their own party and from the opposition, which could lead to a solution. They pointed out that it was misinterpreted here, so we have a right that says it was misinterpreted, there was an overall opposition that thinks it was misinterpreted, and we probably have a purely majority in Stortinget that says it's misinterpreted. The government has created a problem here that no one knew was a problem. Then you've gone into locks – there's been a performance in it because the case ended up in court, and then there was even more prestige in it because you lost the court and posted the change of regulations. As the Council of State is the next speaker, I ask: why did the Minister of Finance choose to issue a regulation after losing his place in the District Court? Why was it not expected that a legal, final judgment would not be given to this fuel with a tax exemption from the user charge until the judgment was delivered, such as for example. I mean, a real majority in Stortinget meant?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1105	As I said in my main post, I believe that it is not right for me to go into the specific individual matter that is being dealt with in the legal system, but comment more generally about what the interpellant has now taken up. I probably have to distance myself from the term "snake" in. This is a matter that has been at the hearing, and if the motive was to sneak something in the back door, it is a little strange to send the matter out to the hearing. It's important to emphasize it from my side. What's actually happening is that there's been some ambiguity around the rules for mineral oil, waste oil and such things, and what's happening now is that a desire to clean up this legislation to make it easier. Among other things, one wants to rely on what are international standards for the definition of that type of product. That is why a person wants to go over to a boiling point definition and not what is in the legislation today, where there is an estimation of the individual products that are subject to a charge. This is not a proposal to extend the charging obligation, but to define in a simpler and clearer way the definition of the product itself. So I think it's important to stress one more thing in the case of synthetic diesel: it can be used in several ways, it can be used clean or blended into ordinary mineral diesel. What is a challenge is that if you were to grant an exemption for synthetic diesel based on gas, it would of course be that one did so in general, so that it would also include synthetic diesel produced from coal. It is hardly a good environmental measure. Another is the case where synthetic diesel can be produced from renewable resources or renewable raw materials, for example. biogas, forest waste, etc. Finally, Norway is not a specific case in this area. Both Denmark and Sweden have a similar charging scheme as we have in Norway, and the case has been the subject of a very broad debate, among other things. in the Swedish Parliament on how to look at this in the future. So it's not strange that it's such a fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1116	I want to start by saying that I think the answer to the Council of State made it clear that the government is pursuing a targeted and results-oriented policy to reduce both greenhouse gas emissions and the extent of local air pollution. Norway may have the world's best electric car tax regime: exemption from one-off taxes, VAT and tolls, and reduced annual tax. In September 2012, electric cars amounted to 5 pst. and hybrid cars 6 pst. of the sale of the new car. The one-off fee has been changed to emphasise both CO2 emissions and NOx emissions. Cars that have low emissions of both parts thus come out best. This policy produces results. The CO2 emissions of new cars have been reduced by more than a quarter. This is largely due to technological developments in this area, but environmentally friendly tax changes also contribute. Policies work. It is important to have a charging policy that is comprehensive, principled and predictable. The user charge shall compensate for the total cost of the car park to society through road wear, congestion, accidents, noise and environmental problems. The user charge goes towards becoming more general, not less. The Government has no plans for changes before 2015 and by means of the climate agreement, it agreed that clean zero-emission cars should retain the current tax advantage until 2017, if the number of pure zero-emission cars does not exceed 50000. It is a positive contribution to predictability. In the 2013 tax proposal, the Ministry of Finance proposes to link the duty on mineral oil and petrol to a boiling point. The system for categorising different types of mineral oil is thus being changed. This is not a proposal Stortinget deals with, and therefore I find it difficult to go into detail. As I am familiar with, the proposal does not intend to change which oil products are subject to duty, but to change the way products are categorised. At present, it is through an estimation of the products that are subject to excise duty. Regardless of what is considered to be taxes on different types of fuel, precise legislation should be desirable. Categorisation by boiling point is an international standard based on the EU Energy Taxation Directive. This debate concerns an amendment to the regulation, not a legal act of the Stortinget. So I think it's positive that the topic is being debated through an interpellation, a conversation with the Council of State, and not through a proposal for a representative, since this initially belongs to the government to decide. But regardless of how you categorize it, the size determines which fuel types are subject to tax and which are not. What was sent out this summer was a consultation on regulatory change in which the government sought to get the theme illuminated and get feedback on whether it was a good proposal. The case referred to, I will not comment here, except that of course it must not be affected by that proposal. The verdict in the tribunal was appealed, but the court must rely on what was current right when the case was brought before the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1144	As the interpellant has rightly pointed out, in the middle of the common holiday, the government has sent out a proposal for full charging of alternative fuels at the hearing — with a short consultation period. This goes into the way in which the red-green government operates, which is one of the things. then during the treatment of the biodiesel product. This is the opposite of predictability. I also support the inter-pellant's view that there is a real majority in the Storting to put fuel like that. EcoFuel receives a fee exemption, as is the case with other fuel types. This is good for Norwegian environmental emissions, air quality in major cities and Norwegian business. I believe that such fundamental decisions as the government is about to sneak through should be discussed with the Stortinget in advance. Although the council doesn't like that it's called a carnival, I think that's exactly what it is. I have heard previous debates in the Chamber today that the government parties have no plan to phase in new environmentally friendly fuel sources. Research is carried out over a low shoe on such alternatives, but if one is to be able to transfer the research to marketable products, tax incentives must be provided for it. The government doesn't. We've seen more of a slightly predictable policy. During the night the red-greens made sure that the biodiesel producer had major problems with the sale, overnight increased the gas charges used for the propulsion of cars, dramatically. This led to large parts of those driving a taxi going away from gas and going over to diesel. As you know, diesel is a nuisance in terms of pollution, especially in cities. We have to get away from this. Several manufacturers now come with products that are so-called climate neutral. A product is, among other things, EcoPar GTL, an important part of the development of so-called second-generation synthetic biodiesel. Instead of natural gas, methane is used from algae, biomethane or wood and cellulose. These are raw materials that do not cost food resources and that can provide an environmentally friendly fuel option. Such energy carriers combined with modern diesel engines and hybrid systems are alternatives available today and in the near future. Looking at the life cycle of a total CO2 account, there is also a net emission reduction of CO2 measured according to ISO 14040. Tomorrow's BTL fuel is completely CO2 neutral, applicable in all diesel engines and will contribute to an even better environment. This product, and several other products, depend entirely on being able to be sold to customers. As I have said before, it costs a lot to produce new products, both through research and investment, and if a non-taxable enables the sale of new environmentally friendly products, yes, they will not be on the market, and we will be able to miss out on more innovations. What the red-greens now add up to, and the thing with SV that likes to call themselves the environmental party, is to put a damper on those who want to bet on the development of new environmentally friendly fuel products. The Progress Party wants a forward-looking fiscal policy that does not go from the State budget to the State budget, where we have sometimes seen that it does not last longer than from the state budget in December to revised in June. A forward-looking environment-friendly charging policy has a built-in predictability, enabling new products to be integrated into the market. Manufacturers must know that their investments can be written off over a period of time, without suddenly getting a fee paid over their heads without any advance notice. The same applies to customers. The government cannot first lure customers to buy an environmentally sound car and then double the charges on the fuel overnight. It's tricking people. Unfortunately, the red-greens have a bad habit of doing just that – the biodiesel business is mentioned, but also stunted as the government did with diesel cars a few years ago, where they lowered the taxes on the cars, and when the population had switched to diesel, they raised the charge overnight. In addition, there are threats of bans on urban driving and sky-high charges for driving diesel cars in cities, despite the fact that the red-greens assured the population that this was an environmental car. No wonder there are many who are both cursed and disappointed by the red-green government. This is not predictability. The Progress Party wants predictability, and I refer to our proposal at the end of the year. 28 S for 2012–2013, which we discussed earlier today, proposing a review of revised principles to base predictability on environmental fuel charges and a proposal for a long-term regulatory framework for vehicles based on new technologies. The red-greens found that there was no need to vote in favour of these proposals. I guess that means there won't be any change until we get a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1170	I would like to thank the interpellant for this interpellation. The representative Arve Kambe asks what strategy the Council of State has in order to facilitate more research, development and sales of alternative fuels. That's what I and Left think is a good question. For example, in Akershu County, cross-political efforts are being made to facilitate the use of hydrogen as an energy carrier in the transport sector. That's set of 1 million. kr per year for the operation of hydrogen stations. The left has also been driven there to ensure that we have in place a minimum of hydrogen infrastructure when the hydrogen cars come on the market. Several of the Asian car manufacturers say they can deliver hydrogen cars to a commercial market in 2015. Then we must be clear. The current Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete opened in 2009 the hydrogen station at the Desert. This created optimism in the research community and industry. Statoil announced last winter that in February they would lay down their hydrogen stations in Stavanger, Oslo, Drammen and Porsgrund. With the support of local authorities and Transnova, the operating company took over HYOP, which originated in research environments at Kjeller, the three stations. Now the government in the state budget is threatening to cut the state support for hydrogen stations. The proposal for a State budget requires that businesses contribute much more if the State continues to provide support through the Transnova company. Left agrees that industry can carry both the development and operation of hydrogen infrastructure in the long term. However, we are not there today, and there are still several years to come hydrogen cars for sale in a commercial market. Today we have 6 hydrogen stations in operation in Norway, as well as a test fleet of 22 cars and 5 buses. It may sound a little puzzled, but the fact is that Norway is the most advanced country in Europe in terms of hydrogen investment. No other country in Europe currently has neither infrastructure nor the number of vehicles to the extent we have in Norway. The left is concerned that we have to hold on to the position and competence until it becomes a commercial bet. What we know right now is that it's hard, because it's only in three to five years that it can be a commercial bet. Business will therefore continue to be careful to enter this area before they know for sure how it develops. Therefore, it is necessary for the State to enter into a transitional period, as the Left sees it. When the government will continue to make support depending on the business contribution – which is not available today – Left becomes very concerned. It is important that the state is in the way it has now been if this is to succeed. The concern of the left is that Norway may lose both market position and acquired competence, and that a commercial investment will be delayed for many years. I noticed that the Minister of Finance did not specifically mention hydrogen in his contribution. I hope, however, that the Minister of Finance will be able to take this challenge into account in his response here today, but I would prefer that this be remedied in the final state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1185	Let me first put behind everything that came from my colleague Kenneth Svendsen. I would like to highlight a few points a little bit better, because this is a subject that the Storting has been dealing with for a long time, and I do not remember in the history that the Minister of Finance comes with when he tries to give the impression that this has been a basically clear line from the government. That's the opposite that's the case. His predecessor, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, sent a number of government budgets, down payment proposition No. One, to the Storting. There the government decided that it would invest in alternative fuels by providing a tax exemption for all alternatives to fossil petrol and diesel. After the famous biodiesel case, where the Prime Minister was able to force everyone on the Storting to think anything other than what they really meant – he believed – he included biodiesel in what was not supposed to have a tax exemption. Fuels other than petrol, diesel and biodiesel should be exempt. That's how the government was going to bet on alternative fuels. So we saw that people were in danger of starting to use this product, and then he introduced a fee. He's actually lost in the judicial system lately. I also think that the Minister of Finance should take it with him, and not hide behind the fact that the matter is in the legal system and is not settled. It is that the government has appealed the matter further in the system, which means that the matter is not settled. The legal system therefore believes at present that EcoFuel is the right person – not the government. When I look at the arguments that the government uses, they're not in line with what the majority of people say. There, the representatives Kambe and Svendsen are absolutely right. The representative Rudihagen, who represents the Workers' Party and sits on the Energy and Environment Committee, was at the NRK last year and promised that it would be wrong for a man to have synthetic diesel taxed. It was not in line with the government's environmental policy that this product should be subject to tax. This had to be wrong, and here it had to be cleaned up. So this cleaning up took place in that the Ministry of Finance overthrew its deposit representatives. It shouldn't be like that. When the Workers' Group clearly believes that this product should not be subject to tax, it was the government that would change policy – not their large group. It says a little bit about how one uses its power in the government. However, there is a wrong position taken by the government. When I look at the arguments used by the government – e.g. argues that this is not an environmentally friendly fuel, by Secretary of State Kjetil Lund, in today's business. Well, this is a highly environmentally friendly fuel. It reduces local environmental problems compared to fossil diesel. The only point on the environment where it's not as good is on CO2 emissions. But it's not about the environment that way – it's about the climate. If it is that the government believes that it is more important to cut Norwegian CO2 emissions marginally, that it is a more important priority than prioritizing local environment where people live, where people have asthma problems and things like that, then it is an argument that the government would have to stand for. But it is not about good environmental policies – it is about bad environmental policies. The government says that cooling can be a way to solve this problem. It is not the intention of people to drive less, it is the need to distribute traffic more evenly over the day in order to make better use of the infrastructure. So we're going to have the same number of diesel cars on the roads, if the goal of cooling is what the government says. So this is not solved. The government has, for example: in yesterday's Question Time, said that the new diesel cars now have lower environmental emissions. That's absolutely right. But it takes some years to replace the car park. The question, such as interpellant So what are we going to do in the meantime? What are we going to do as the cars that are now sold still go on the roads and release this that causes us to get environmental pollution locally? The answer is driving ban. That's what the government has opened up to. They don't want to demand it, so the Minister of Finance doesn't have to claim that I say it. But the government makes it easier to choose this locally instead of making it easier to choose a better fuel. That's what one could do from a central point of view: reduce the tax on environmentally friendly fuels so that we didn't get the problem initially. We could have had a positive approach to letting people choose better alternatives instead of choosing the negative whip instruments where a person refuses to use the car that the government invited them to buy – the diesel car. I urge the Minister of Finance to be constructive and solution-oriented in his last speech, saying that as long as this problem exists, we will leave the GTL, the product of EcoFuel, free of charge – at least in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1210	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank all the contributors in the debate. I'm glad too much support, because this is an important matter. I am accusing the government of having had an ungainly progress in the project process. I believe there has been bad political craftsmanship in the Ministry of Finance and in the dialogue between the Directorate of Customs and Fees and the Ministry of Finance at an earlier time. If it had been better, the government would have avoided getting into the legal system for the next time and losing in the legal system for more than nth time. It's not dressy to come up with this regulation in retrospect. The question at the end of my interpellation was: What strategy does the Council of State have in order to facilitate more research, development and sales of more alternative fuels? The debate could be shorter if the Minister of Finance had answered what he has actually said: I have no strategy, dear sire, for this, but need proposals for action, and proposals for action have quite a number of these. To make it easy, it's four years that the fuel producers import cars and sell cars. It's 2013, which is the biggest choice – then something can happen. It is 2015, when the Minister of Finance announces a review of the exemptions from the user charge. It is 2017, which is the end point of the electric car exemption, and it is 2020, when the full review of the user charge comes. One of the things that a person would like to get about is that the big issues that the government was early going out and saying there was going to be a complete review of, moving on to the next government. Complicated issues are not solved by the sitting government; they are pushed on, so that there are important work tasks for the next government. We're not worried about that, because we're able to solve them. We have solutions for them. We're really looking forward to putting this into practice pretty quickly. But I think this interpellation has revealed that what the government has done in the case of the GTL and EcoFuel, is not good, it is striking, and I think it is sincere that those who are currently researching alternative fuels have neither in the state budget, in the context of the climate agreement, nor in this interpellation received an answer as to whether they are getting the security they need if someone is inventing something tricked to charge a fee. We have not received that, and the conclusion is that the government does not have a strategy to facilitate more research, development and sales of more alternative fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1229	To the representative of Solvik-Olsen: Yes, the matter is disputed. That means that the matter is in the legal system. This also means that the Minister of Finance of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg does not deal with individual cases. It shouldn't be like that, it shouldn't be like that, and it won't be like that. Then I also have to say that once again it is so that it is not more correct if the representative Solvik-Olsen repeats something that is wrong. The government has not proposed a driving ban in urban areas for diesel cars. There were speculations about it in the paper, it was clearly rejected by the government that such a proposal would come. On the other hand, I have registered – and it is quite interesting – that as late as last year the government received criticism, among other things. from the Solvik-Olsen party traps in Bergen about when a few guidelines could allow one to apply local measures. There's the thing. It is open for local authorities to take decisions on, for example: cow pricing or other measures to limit local pollution. The Government allocates 77 million in the 2013 budget. kr, approx., to Transnova. It is important for Transnova to be able to continue the work in place to develop alternative fuels and to contribute to a conversion to fuel that emits less CO2. So it's important, as the representative Tenden says, to create a market for these fuels. It is obvious that the state can play a role in birth, but over time it is important that a developer of a private market manages this. I also believe that there can be, for example: local authorities, municipalities, play an important role. One example is the conversion of the bus park that takes place in Trondheim municipality, which facilitates gas-powered buses, which probably also at the other end could create a larger market for biogas. The latter is an example of the fact that when the question of biogas came up a few years ago, I proposed exemption from the biogas user charge for just stimulating the development of that type of fuel and its possibilities in, for example. bus parks. I want to thank you for the interpellation, even though there were some harsh words coming from the interpellant. It just has to include you in the discussion. The interpellant should be praised for addressing a theme that is important: what do we do to develop alternative fuels in the future? I mean, as I said in my main post, that the government has a good setup, and that is a scheme that is largely supported by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1247	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1261	This Agreement concerns the establishment of a North European functional airspace block between Estonia, Finland, Latvia and Norway, the so-called NEFAB Agreement. It was signed on 4 June 2012 and is intended to organise air traffic management and airspace between the four countries irrespective of national borders. The agreement is of a international nature. That is why it has also been within the Foreign Affairs Committee. This cooperation shall be a means of providing users of air navigation services with a more efficient and environmentally friendly closure of traffic at a lower price. Extensive evidence is available to analyse possible cooperation between actors. The documentation shows significant positive effects on service providers, but especially on airspace users, mainly through shorter and more efficient routes, i.e. flies. This will benefit business and travellers. Closer cooperation at both State and supervisory and service providers levels will also result in more efficient use of resources, in particular with regard to the coordination of cross-border activities. This comes as a result of EU legislation on the creation of the single European sky, the packages I and II, known as Single European Sky, of which we are a member. Package I is already incorporated into the EEA Agreement, while package II is not. Package I envisages the establishment of such cooperation between countries, i.e. functional airspace blocks, while package II refers to the period for which it is to be implemented. It's set to December 4. But it is not included in the EEA Agreement. Thus, we are not obliged to join within that period. Nevertheless, Norwegian participation in the development of the airspace block has been desirable from the outset, in order to be able to shape cooperation as far as possible, to take care of Norwegian concerns and to create desirable framework conditions for Norwegian services. Initially, both Sweden, Denmark and Iceland were involved in this cooperation, but Denmark and Sweden withdrew and established their own block. It was not desirable from Norway, but we were presented to a fait accompli, and thus it was necessary to establish NEFAB cooperation with the countries that have now been established. The agreement is not expected to have a significant financial and administrative impact on the public, including the Aviation Agency, and the costs associated with NEFAB cooperation must be covered within existing budgets. According to a potential study carried out by Avinor, savings for service providers and consumers are estimated at 400 million. kr from 2015 and more than 600 mill. kr from 2020. The Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has delivered its opinion, and they had no further comments. The Transport and Communications Committee unanimously states that it has noted that it is highly desirable to integrate the airspace block between Estonia, Finland, Latvia and Norway and the Danish/Swedish airspace block. The Committee has no other comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1296	Today, 22 005 flights are expected in European airspace. I don't know. Nineteen, there were three,526 aircraft in the air. Of these, 155 were delayed more than 30 minutes, mainly due to the weather. In order to manage this traffic, an efficient and secure air traffic control service is required. In order to coordinate and coordinate the flow of this traffic between countries, Eurocontrol was established. Norway is part of this system. Landing and take-off times for international traffic from and to Norway are controlled by Eurocontrol’s headquarters outside Brussels. On 1 July, the VG reported that, in some summer weeks, more than 30 air traffic controllers or supervisors would be standing unmanned at the control centre of the smoke. The unfilled guards will have consequences for the regularity of air traffic in the East, says leader Robert Gjønes of the Norwegian Air Traffic Management Association of VG. July 11th, Mariann Hornnes says that they can't guarantee that everything is going to go as normal beyond the day. Torp and Rygge had already been closed from Monday that week. Tuesday evening, air traffic was delayed for about an hour. In the same week, the carrier Norwegian NHO asked the air carrier to coordinate a meeting between Avinor and the airlines Ontøe, SAS and Norwegian. The information manager of Avinor lamented and hoped to resolve this along the way as much as possible, so that passengers and airlines would release more such events. Then it happens again: 20 July, in the afternoon, Avinor reports that there may be delays at Oslo Airport Gardermoen, Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport due to understaffing at the Søken control centre. Later it is reported that there was sufficient staffing in the smoke, but due to acute illness, the traffic capacity in the airspace is reduced. This will create delays in air traffic in the East beyond the afternoon, while constantly working to improve the situation. It is not the first time acute illness occurs in this sector. According to Eurocontrol, Gardermoen had the most delays of all European airports in July, and this is an area with the lowest traffic density in Europe. The delays took place between 1 June and 27 August of this year. A total of 1876 SAS flights were hit. According to Director Lothe of NHO Aviation, the airlines lost an estimated 100 million. kr. But not only the airlines had losses, a number of businesses that could not carry out planned activities, or were delayed, had losses. This was particularly true of the tourist industry. Otherwise, there was strong irritation in other travelers who were either sitting there waiting, or who never got where they had planned. We see it as positive that the director of Avinor does not exclude that financial compensation can be used in this context. Airspace control is a government service we pay dearly for in Norway. We expect it to work. The lack of air traffic controllers in vulnerable periods may, of course, have many different reasons, but there can be no doubt that it is unacceptable that the deficiency will have as much consequences as in the summer. In September, 4,247,584 passengers traveled to or from one of Avinor’s airports. It's an increase of 3.2 pst. compared to last year. The rest of the world is increasing the most, by 8.4 pst. This increase is most likely to continue. There is little to suggest that this increase will not continue. Therefore, the consequences of an unstable air navigation service are even greater in the future. Avinor is a monopolistic in the performance of this service. It is therefore very important to pay close attention to efficiency and customer focus. The group leader of Avinor suggested earlier this autumn that traffic disruptions in air traffic may be associated with ‘a real cultural problem’ among some employees. This is not the first time we hear about conflicts in this service. There may seem to be a need for a focus on customer-focusing of the corporate culture in terms of air safety, so that Avinor will not again face such a situation as we had last summer. I look forward to the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1326	Avinor is responsible for infrastructure that is important for the normal functioning of society. Due to scattered population, long distances and difficult topography, Norway is more dependent on aviation than most other European countries. When the infrastructure in Avinor fails to function, it is rapidly having serious consequences for society, and it was a very unfortunate situation for both passengers and airlines that occurred this summer. The Department of Transport is concerned that the events we had this summer do not have to repeat themselves. At a general level, we believe that Avinor works well, but this summer we had challenges related to two air navigation service units in the company, which, as I said, created major problems for air passengers and airlines. Avinor has subsequently recognised responsibility for the difficult situation and is also now carrying out a thorough evaluation of what happened during the summer. Follow-up by the Department of Transport to Avinor follows two main lines. Firstly, the Ministry of Transport manages the ownership of the State in Avinor, and secondly, the Ministry of Transport is the top authority for aviation in Norway, i.e. that we are also regulator of Avinor. If we first look at the ownership role, Avinor is organized as a public limited liability company, i.e. a limited liability company in which the State holds all the shares. The conversion of the then Aviation Administration took place during the Bondevik II administration. Following an evaluation of the organisation and form of association in 2006, the Stoltenberg Government also decided to maintain Avinor as a public limited liability company responsible for both airports and air navigation services. There has therefore been broad political agreement on both the organisation and the form of association for Avinor. The form of the public limited liability company means that Avinor has a board of directors which, together with the day-to-day management, is responsible for the day-to-day operation and management of the company. The Ministry of Finance, on its part, is responsible for defining the overall framework for the company in the light of the Storting decision and also setting objectives for the operation. Important ownership tasks include: to lay down the statutes and to appoint the representatives of the members of the Management Board. Instructions to the company may be made by the department which owns only through the general meeting. Avinor has a responsibility for infrastructure that is important for the normal functioning of society. Within the framework of the division of roles between the owner and the company, the Ministry of Transport conducts a close dialogue with Avinor. The development of the air navigation service has been high on the agenda of the recent dialogue with the company. The ministry has given Avinor feedback that the type of events we saw this summer are unacceptable, and the ministry has demanded that similar situations should not be repeated in the future. The Ministry has further assured itself that Avinor has put in place measures to ensure stable operation of the air navigation service. However, in line with the governance principles of limited liability companies, it is important to stress that the Board of Directors and the day-to-day management are responsible for preparing and following up the measures necessary to remedy the situation. As part of this responsibility, Avinor must ensure that enough air traffic controllers are trained. Furthermore, Avinor must make the most of its air traffic controller resources. Last but not least, the holiday settlement must be carried out in a proper manner. Avinor must be prepared to take into account that unforeseen situations may also arise during vacation time. In the longer term, the Ministry of Transport, which owns it, will assess the organisation of air navigation services in Norway. These are not measures that will necessarily solve the problems in the short term, but may have an effect in the longer term. In Europe, changes are now taking place in the way air navigation services are regulated. It follows from the pan-European airspace legislative package of which Norway is part under the EEA Agreement. The reasons for the change in regulation are challenges in several countries with both high costs and low efficiency. The aim of the changes is, therefore, to provide a more efficient air navigation service while reducing environmental impacts and increasing safety. The changes in the way services are regulated have also led to changes in the organisation of air navigation services in many countries. In the light of the changes that have taken place internationally and in the summer, it is desirable for the Ministry to examine the appropriate organisation of air navigation services in Norway. There are questions that the Ministry of Transport will come back to in the big news about the Avinor business to be submitted to spring. However, I would like to stress that we should not believe that a reorganization is the answer to all the problems related to this topic, but it is one of the areas that it is natural to consider in the context of the announced news of Avinor. As regards the role of the Ministry of Transport as regulator, the Ministry of Transport has designated Avinor as a national air navigation service provider. It follows from EEA legislation on the pan-European airspace. This Decision was recently extended for two years with effect from 26 September 2012. In this context, it was decided that the Air Safety Authority may now ask Avinor to submit plans to improve the robustness of the service provision by enabling the transfer of services from one control centre to another in the event of loss of or reduction of capacity. In addition, the Air Safety Authority may request detailed plans and explanations on how Avinor should ensure monthly, weekly, daily and weekly manning. Below, Avinor shall also have to explain the duty of individual air traffic controllers to meet at work on a summons due to the sick leave of others. Furthermore, from this year on, the Ministry of Transport has introduced a performance management system. This system is consistent with the legislation on pan-European airspace. The performance management system shall measure Avinor’s air navigation services in the areas of capacity, cost-efficiency, safety and environment. For the period up to 2015, a separate national performance plan with clear targets for capacity and cost-effectiveness has been established during the so-called en route phase. For the period up to 2015, the performance system shall provide an average reduction of the related en route charge of 4 pst. per year compared to the level of fees for 2009. The system will be further developed by defining binding objectives in all four areas and for the entire provision of air navigation services from take-off to landing. Thus, we will have a system that embraces all aspects of the service provision, and so that cost-effective requirements do not lead to delays or reduced safety. At the same time, we see the start of closer cooperation between Avinor and other service providers. The main instrument is the establishment of what we have just adopted in the Storting, namely functional airspace blocks. Norway participates in NEFAB and the aim is to address operational challenges more effectively both through economies of scale and through better airspace organisation. To sum up some of the points I have been dealing with: Avinor has recognised that there were major shortcomings in the service provision this summer. It's an important responsibility they have to take the future forward. The expectations of the State vis-à-vis Avinor have been addressed by Avinor through the ownership dialogue and have recently been clarified by the role of authority and by the new responsibilities of the Air Safety Authority when they are more able to test for detail whether Avinor is able to fulfil its obligations. Furthermore, the next performance plan, developed by the Ministry of Transport in the role of authority and put into effect for a longer term period, will be more accurate and important in ensuring delivery stability and reducing delays. An incentive that is also assessed is to have shortcomings in the provision of services impact on the charges charged by Avinor to airlines as payments for the services. All in all, it must be possible to sum up that the day-to-day operation and the provision of services is the responsibility of Avinor's board of directors and management. At the same time, it is important that the State, both through its ownership role and through its authority role, ensure that the tasks to be performed are properly carried out and that what is done by Avinor is also properly supervised.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1364	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I particularly noticed that the Council of State said that this should not repeat itself, and that what happened this summer will be subject to a thorough evaluation. It's positive. At the same time, the Council of State said that it is the Board of Directors and the daily management that handle these things. Of course, it is, but when you get the same kind of results in the social machinery that it did in the summer – and that we have had a lot of times before when it comes to air navigation services – it must be right for political leadership to act. The even Northman feels reasonably abandoned in such a context. You may be waiting at an airport and know that the plane is ready to take you where you are going, but then there's someone in a tower or in a control center who hasn't checked out, as was said this summer, or someone is so-called acutely ill. Then we have to be able to find solutions to that. The Council of State says that the Department has given feedback to Avinor that this is not acceptable and that they should do something. She has also pointed this out with the training of enough air traffic controllers. Of course, that's an important piece. But there's also another piece that we're probably familiar with, the Avinor manager has looked at, and that's that we have a large group of air traffic controllers in Norway. When a few people are missing on the Gardermoen or in the Smoke, there are still some people sitting around at all the small airports in Norway who may receive two or three flights within 24 hours. It seems to be a fairly irrational way of dealing with it. Sweden has introduced a different way to control it remotely, and it must be possible to look at it in Norway as well. The council says she's willing to look at the organization of it, so I think it's very positive. But it doesn't solve all the problems – of course it doesn't. What has proved to be a problem in the Avinor system over time is often the environment and culture. If the head of Avinor makes an honest attempt to do something about it, so that we get a focus on customer orientation, I hope the Ministry of Transport supports it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1375	I share the inter-pellant's view that this is an important topic, because it concerns a lot of people. It is clear that when delays or irregularities occur, many people are affected — both passengers and airlines providing important services in Norway. I also agree that it is important that the owners react and that the Ministry of Transport responds, but it is also important that they do so within the framework of good ownership and management. That means that we have to stay within some framework in relation to the company, also in terms of the role of the board and the management in the company. We have tried to do that, in the sense that we have addressed the issue and asked the company to do what it can to avoid the situation that arose this summer. I would like to mention in particular, perhaps, that the new role that the Air Traffic Control can now take towards Avinor is quite important, because there is an opportunity to be able to transfer the services from one control centre to another in the event of loss of or reduced capacity. It could now ask Avinor to submit a plan for it. I think that will help in the right direction with regard to the interpellant on the issue of more flexibility between the various control centres. Otherwise, I agree that the issue of possible reorganisation is a topic that can be important. I don't think it alone can solve the problem of these questions, but it's a topic that's important for the department that owns and authority to look at, and we'll come back to Stortinget in the spring, when we present the news about Avinor. I also agree that education and certification are an important topic. There have been some positive things. One has trained it one has had the capacity to do over the last few years, and we're probably going from next spring to being up-to-date with the number of air traffic controllers. However, it is clear that there is a case-by-case process, in particular when the certification requirements at the workplace are also as comprehensive as they are in the case of air traffic controller training. There is also a theme on which there is a basis for looking into it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1388	The starting point for this interpellation is a situation that both we as politicians, and travellers and also airlines found unsustainable the summer that went on. I understand the inter-pellant's desire to raise this debate with the Minister of Transport at the main hall, but it's tempting to say that much of this should be taken with the director of Avinor, the state AS. I can't begin by not commenting on what I think is an expression of Right's somewhat two-part attitude towards the formation of companies in the transport sector. The creation of Avinor took place during Bondevik II, where the right was a premiscuous supplier. The right is, of course, honest about the fact that they want the formation of the other relationships as well. Freedom from companies is often underlined. The same applies to the Advance Party, with which the Right Party will join the Government. But when there's something they're not satisfied with, they're going to have the Minister of Transport of the Stortinge to answer for themselves. A lot of responsibility is then transferred to the Council of State. However, as the Council of State pointed out, the Board of Directors and the management of Avinor are responsible for developing and following up the measures necessary to remedy this situation. Then we are left with the ownership management and the authority role that the Ministry of Transport performs on behalf of the government. I feel that the Council of State has well explained what has been done, and what is thought to have been done in the future by the Ministry of Transport to prevent similar situations from happening again. But, as I said, that's essentially something Avinor himself has to take care of. I believe this fall has shown that Avinor takes this most seriously, and that they are now doing their best to clean up and make sure that similar situations do not arise again. If we look at measures that we politicians can contribute to, and that we haven't reorganized ourselves beyond being able to decide on, there are a few things I want to address. I believe that a discussion around the number of control centres could be relevant. Today we have three. But if technological development makes it possible to reduce the number of control centres to two, or maybe to one, I think it's worth looking at. I assume that we can get back to this in connection with the upcoming news of the business in Avinor, which is announced in the spring. Let me nevertheless stress it of course that aviation safety must come first in such a discussion. Then I also record that the Air Safety Authority, after consulting a proposal to lift the 60-year age limit for air traffic controllers, and to lift the demand for Norwegian knowledge in order to be able to work at the control centres. This too – with aviation safety at the bottom – is a proposal I welcome. This may help ease the pressure on the air navigation service that we have experienced recently. A situation no one has earned, continues. I am pleased with the measures taken by the Council of State and with which the Ministry has the opportunity to do something. Then Avinor himself has to take the responsibility they have. I think they see in their interest that they do. Then I look forward to a major debate on the activities of Avinor at large in the context of the forthcoming big business announcement in Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1401	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important debate. Norwegian and international aviation stop completely when many air traffic controllers are away from work. This led to major problems this summer, as too many air traffic controllers had a summer vacation at once. It is totally unacceptable that large parts of District Norway and departures abroad should stop due to poor planning of guards at Avinor. It must be possible to plan the holiday settlement so that you have enough people at work. It is also very special that Avinor is not fined for downtime, as one would have done if it were a private company that did not provide a service they were responsible for. The government has to take action to fix this. We cannot accept that over 1,800 flights will be greatly delayed, with the consequences this will have for the travellers. NHO Aviation has been constructive and has made a good proposal on what can be done. In fact, NHO Aviation believes that importing foreign air traffic controllers can solve the whole problem, but then the rules need to be changed. Unfortunately, Norwegian civil aviation legislation requires all air traffic controllers to master Norwegian. This is an old-fashioned requirement, when we know that English is the language of international commercial aviation, and when we also know that it works Norwegian air traffic controllers who don't know a single word Arabic, in the Gulf states. But it's going perfectly well. There are guaranteed to be many European air traffic controllers who would like to work in Norway if we opened this up, and with foreign air traffic controllers, we could also have solved the whole overtime problem, which is a recurring issue between Avinor and the trade union. The Government may remove the Norwegian requirement if it so wishes, but the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are clearly opposed. Today, with today’s policy, Norway is very vulnerable to disturbances in domestic and international aviation, not least during the volcanic eruptions in Iceland some years ago. One of the problems is that Norway lacks a robust and well-developed road network that makes it possible to get there when the aircraft are on the ground or when the trains are tracked off. Here we have a lot to learn from Denmark and Sweden. A flight from Oslo to Bergen is about as long as a flight from Gothenburg to Copenhagen. A car trip from Oslo to Bergen takes 7-8 hours, while a car trip from Gothenburg to Copenhagen takes only a little over 3 hours. Until Norway has established a proper road network – which seems to take a very long time – we are totally dependent on aviation to get around the country. That's why it's absolutely necessary to do everything you can to clean up the planes when they're going to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1412	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing this matter. It's an important thing, but it doesn't help us just take it up here and talk about the situation, unless the Council of State takes action. And there actually has to be new grip in this case. I want to be a little bit direct. A rapid analysis of this relationship suggests that we are faced with a monopolistic service, in other words a profession with great opportunity to influence society, businesses and individuals, and through it impose high costs and consequences on its behaviour. In such services, the level of pay is often a characteristic, so is it here. I think we can hardly be served this much longer. The inter-pellant and several others have highlighted the matter well. Future - oriented thoughts have also emerged. I will therefore point to some assumptions that we in the Right will base our policy in the area ahead. First of all, we want to put passengers, business and airlines in focus. In this context, the air navigation service becomes an instrument and shall provide a service to them. The fact that this is done in a way that creates the least possible disadvantages is, of course, the responsibility of the Council of State to implement it through the company she controls — Avinor. They must be given the opportunity to solve this properly. I almost understood the Council of State there – I hope I didn't do it – that she is a little disclaimer of responsibility, and says that this is part of the corporate structure with which we have arranged. I don't think that will be very valid for a long time, because this is and will be the responsibility of the Council of State. If you were to take the Council of State on the floor, it would also be that if the Board of Directors of Avinor and Avinor chose to organize themselves in the direction that I refer to, she would consider it an internal matter to get as much out of operation as possible. It could be exciting to see. The keyword is competition and outsourcing. Air transport is becoming increasingly competitive in Europe. It should also happen in this part of the industry in our country. I did not realize that the Council of State mentioned competition at all in its submission. I actually thought that was a little disappointing. We in the Right believe that we should follow Sweden's example of also postponing the air navigation service to competition. We want to open up to new actors – of course within Avinor’s remit. In Sweden, this has actually led to more efficiency, more reasonable services, savings for the whole sector, and thus also a more robust sector. All actors in Sweden are concerned that the changes, which started in 2010, should not compromise aviation safety as such. It's almost obvious. I hope that the Council of State will respond specifically to the challenge of putting out air traffic control services, providing more suppliers and service providers, and that Avinor will have the opportunity to manage such a system. This is of course for us in the Right. Avinor was created by a former government. We see that it works well, but Avinor must also be given the freedom to organise in a more modern way with its entire business, including the air navigation service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1429	Avinor is responsible for an infrastructure that is very important for the functioning of our society. And it's a demanding country to run such infrastructure in, not least in these times of storm, rain and snow around each other, which makes it not always so easy to make things work as they should. In the same way, we're also totally dependent on air traffic if we're going to make society work the way it should. I use to say that the plane is my express bus. It's the only way, when you live in the middle of Norway as I do, to get to and from Oslo quickly. There'll never be any alternative that can go the same fast when you're addicted to being able to attend meetings and different forums. So the plane is going to be incredibly important in the future. When it doesn't work -- like we saw this summer -- it has an incredibly big impact on the whole community. There are concerns and delays that make it not easy to make everyday work work as it should. That's how many people there are. The summer's holiday settlement situation led to such delays and so much uncertainty that many were unsure whether they could at all get to and from their planned destinations and carry out the tasks they were supposed to do. I believe that Avinor works well overall, but the situation in air navigation requires extra follow-up. The centre party is therefore very pleased that we are receiving a big message about Avinor's activities for spring, where we will look at both the air navigation service and the other issues such as: the Minister for Transport has visited, and not least the whole of air traffic. I think that's very true. The centre party is not prepared to discuss competitive outsourcing out of context. We have to view this as part of the whole of the total review we're going to have about Avinor. That's why, as I said, it's very good that we get this big message. Themes that should be given extra attention in the message have, of course, been included. I believe it is certainly important, air navigation services are very important, and the situation associated with holiday settlement must be a central theme in this way. As I said, Norway is totally dependent on well-functioning air traffic, and we cannot accept that the chaos we had last summer is repeating itself. It's totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1444	State companies instead of agencies are a good model, which the Progress Party supports and tends to see used to a greater extent. But, of course, such companies must achieve their objectives and perform their tasks in a good way. It's important, and it's also an important task for the owner. It is very good to say about the Avinor model and the company Avinor, but with regard to the problems and challenges of air traffic controllers, traffic management and regularity in aviation, it has actually become a sad story. Unfortunately, due to the summer air traffic controller’s chaos, the interpellation is necessary, because ownership has not been good, the grips are missing — perhaps also the will. Whether it really is so that high-traffic summer seasons at Avinor's airports together with holiday settlements for Avinor's air traffic controllers cause chaos for the air passengers, there is reason to exacerbate Avinor's management. But it's the responsibility of the Council of State, it's part of the leadership, management and ownership responsibility. Unfortunately, there is reason to believe that it was not just a sleepover before the summer season. There's a reason to notice, like others, that we're talking about a state-owned company that has a monopoly. Unfortunately, there is reason to believe that neither the management of Avinor — old nor new — nor the management of the Ministry of Transport — is entirely addressing the challenges of putting in place air traffic controller crews that ensure predictable, stable, reliable traffic management in Norwegian aviation — and also the organisation of the area. For a relatively new Minister of Transport, the comfort may be that she has inherited an unresolved problem. It gives passengers and airlines little comfort. The only acceptable solution is enough air traffic controllers and that they are at work when they need to be at work. This problem has ridden Avinor since 2005. Some of the first problems encountered the Transport Committee when the 2005-2009 session started. During the period since 2005, the company has changed both management and board of directors. The challenge to the Minister of Transport is what is done concretely to ensure that there are enough air traffic controllers in place and how ownership is actively exercised to ensure that this happens. The question is also entirely specific and justified by the airlines as to whether they are covered by their delay and cancellation costs from the summer of 2012, where it has been particularly acute and where Avinor has not delivered but nevertheless invoiced for 100 million. kr. Two previous government councils have informed Stortinget, among others. in the context of a roll-out notification on Avinor, that there is and has been a plan to balance the needs of air traffic controllers and air traffic controllers. We'll hear in half a sentence from the state council here today that it's still a plan, and that it's probably going to be in place next year. Let's know more about this, and let's get assurances that there is a necessary and sufficient balance in the crew as soon as possible. A situation of lack of air traffic controllers in Norwegian air transport creates uncertainty and a high risk of delay for passengers is unacceptable. Among the solutions that need to be considered in addition to the recruitment of several qualified rapids are both the reorganisation and purchase of traffic management services from others. The monopoly must be broken, and as long as there is a lack of competent air traffic controllers in relation to the need, we have a double monopoly situation. It is very unfortunate, it has to be resolved, and it has to be resolved with active ownership management – and more active ownership management than this government has demonstrated in this area from 2005 to today, in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1459	It's very good that the interpellant addresses this important question. It's not like this is a question that suddenly appeared in 2012. This has been back and forth until 2005. That means, therefore, that this Minister for Transport is the third Minister for Transport, from the same political party and from the same governmental parties, who says that we have control, but we come up with proposals and measures to solve it. It's been a long time since 2005, we've been discussing this here and elsewhere many times, and I assume that the Council of State takes responsibility and makes sure to do something about it now. The fact that the Workers’ Party and the Centre will not discuss it in detail today in the context of the interpellation with the launch of competition shows once again that they want to push the problem – or the challenges – ahead of them and will not address concrete proposals on how to solve the problems. I had hoped that the Minister for Transport would not be on the same track, and not just push the problems ahead. I have to say that when I heard the Council of State's statement, or a response to the interpellant, I heard a Council of State who wrote down almost all responsibility and pushed all responsibility over to the company. Of course, the company is responsible, but that is also, of course, how the owner has the primary responsibility for what is happening. And the Council of State is a general meeting of the company. This means that the Council of State is also responsible for what the company does and for ensuring that the company complies with the requirements and expectations that the owner and the Stortinge expect from the company. So we have the business of Avinor up to treatment in Stortinget, we also make clear reports, and then we expect the government council that owns to follow it up. Then this councillor, since she joined just before this happened this summer, of course, will not be blamed for all that has happened before and for what the other two councillors have to take responsibility for. But at least this council should not come to Stortinget for so long afterwards and push the company in front of it and say that you should come back to it – instead of taking it immediately. After all, it's been a few months since all the chaos we had this summer. But now I'm going to be very clear and clear and challenge the Minister of Transport to clear conditions that would have meant a great change or improvement. Will the Council of State – and I hope she can answer today – make sure that you do something about the requirement of the language skills of the air traffic controllers, that not everyone has to master Norwegian to be an air traffic controller when it is English that is the international language? Will the State Council do as the NHO and others have called for: separate the air navigation service from a separate company and allow private companies to set up their own companies that can compete with Avinor? Will the Council of State ensure that the airlines that were hit this summer are compensated for the additional costs they had? Would Avinor also compensate all the customers and users and ordinary people who were actually hit because the monopolist couldn't provide the services that the monopolist is supposed to provide? I believe at least that getting private companies on the track is very important and will be a good contribution. Will the Council of State ensure that individuals who wish to provide training for air traffic controllers in Norway – who are quite clear but are waiting for ‘go’ from Avinor and from the Council of State – are now allowed to provide air traffic controller training in Norway? That would be a great opportunity and would mean that in the longer term you can solve the situation of Avinor. Finally, it's quite amazing what we experienced at the first airports that were closed this summer. It was Rygge and Torp – the two airports that are not part of the Avinor system, and that themselves have no opportunity to make sure that they have an air traffic controller service that allows them to operate all the time. They were among the first to be hit – and they had really great consequences without any opportunity to do anything. They're given a monopoly that does exactly what they want. I hope that the Council of State can at least answer the specific questions. It would mean changes, it would mean positiveness, and that would mean passengers arrive in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1490	I will be allowed to thank the speakers who have taken part in this debate, which I myself consider to be a very important piece. Aviation in Norway is unusually important, not only because we have a lot of bad roads in part, but also because there are very long distances. That's why we're dependent on flying, and then we're dependent on the safe departure of the planes that we're going to be with. It's said that there's a lot of good in Avinor. Yeah, I'll sign it. In my time as an officer in the Air Force, I had a lot of close contact with the Air Force, we worked well together. Nevertheless, today I experience that a business culture has developed in parts of Avinor, which means that in my opinion the focus is not where it should be, on the travellers. Then, of course, as the Council of State says, the company has to sort it out, but a certain pressure from political authority and political ownership I think may be absolutely necessary in this context. Internationalisation of this service comes – we know that, and we look forward to it. The establishment of NEFAB means that in the long term, another control centre will be able to take over our head office in smoke, which has often been the problem. We've never had similar problems in Bodø, where we also have a central one. We had a central in central Norway, there was no problem either. But the smoke has proved to be a problem for some reason. When that part can be taken over by another, we'll be able to solve those acute problems that we've had this summer. However, there are exceptions to the Norwegian language requirement for all those who are going to work. I had a dialogue on it with parts of the activity this summer. As long as you have someone who speaks Norwegian in a control center, it must be able to hold. I look forward, as the Council of State has said today, to a statement of ownership for the spring that will affect many of these things. I hope that the announcement of ownership also includes an evaluation of what Secretary of State Lahnstein said on 9 September, that we “do not exclude that it may be relevant to the outsource controllers.” We ask that it be included in the assessment, because it is now that when you have a monopoly, it is very difficult for others to have influence, because the power is so great. So if you get rid of the monopoly, you're also going to get better quality of service. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the debate and wish you every success in cleaning up the corporate structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1503	Like the interpellant, I'm also of the opinion that the focus of a company like Avinor is on the travelers. It should be to make a good offer, and that is the company's responsibility first and foremost. So the owner is going to push a pressure, but I'm a little surprised if it's that the Right, at Halleraker, or the Advance Party, believe that the pressure is going to happen outside the scope of what the Storting itself has said is going to be good ownership and company management. I expect someone to believe that this will happen within the framework that the Storting itself has drawn up in the relationship between the company/liability company and the owner. There is also a clear division of labour between the owner and the company with regard to the responsibility for the exercise of measures, and also after supervision and follow-up of what the company does. Let me then let me comment on a couple of questions. One is Norwegian as a language. The Air Safety Authority has consulted on a proposal to repeal Norwegian as a language at the control centres, so it has already been initiated by the authorities. But I have to say that one shouldn't believe that it solves all the problems. Firstly, even if you lift Norwegian as a qualification at the control centres, you still need to be certified at the centre for a period of several months. So that's not a short term solution. The second is that there is actually no surplus of air traffic controllers in other countries either. And the third is that with the efforts this government has made in terms of air traffic controller training, we will in fact be up-to-date next year with Norwegian air traffic controllers as well. So I'm also concerned about future organization, and I see that there's come a different view in the hall today of that very thing. There will be full opportunity for the Stortinget to discuss throughout its breadth related to the big message that the government is presenting to the Storinget on Avinor during the next spring. I would also like to stress that it is clear that the Air Safety Authority has a role to play here, both in assessing what is safe in terms of safety and also in following the Avinor’s contribution to the implementation of the plans they have to fulfil the service they have, in the matter of air traffic controllers and in the performance of air traffic controller services related to the various control centres. It is also reinforced, as late as September this year, and will of course also be followed up by supervision. I thank the interpellant for the debate, and expect the Stortinget to come back and discuss in its full breadth of Avinor and its further activities during the spring of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1516	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1530	Very, very briefly: this is about the presidency joining the government's proposal for a law that the King of the Council of State may make the voluntary registration system compulsory for the duties and financial interests of members of the government. As you know, this mechanism has been mandatory for large-scale representatives and for permanent alternates since 1 October 2009 and for other alternates from 1 April 2011. The Presidency believes that it is beneficial to continue the system of a common register of depositors and government members, not least for practical reasons when the roles change. The Presidency also indicates that it is at all times the rules applicable to the registration system of the EEAS representatives which shall also govern the members of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1543	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1683	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1691	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for a long-term vehicle charging code based on new technology, including electric cars.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1715	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the context of the 2013 revised national budget, the Government requests the Storting to provide the Authority with a review of fuel charging principles for predictability for manufacturers and consumers of climate-neutral or emission reduction fuels.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1745	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to Law 19 June 2009 No. 58 on value added tax [[VAT Act]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1772	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Decision of the Storting of 24 November 2011 is amended as follows: on the charging of boat engines [[(chapter. 5537 heading 71):]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1795	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1813	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1849	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e1859	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-25.ana.ud83e2003	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
