ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e26	The representative, Mr Svendsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e29	On behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Jørund Rytman, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ask the government to present a plan on how electric cars and cars using new technology will retain a predictable tax regime over time. Then, on behalf of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and myself, I will present a proposal for a new anchor fast for economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e36	The representative Per Roar Bredvold will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e39	I am pleased to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Torgeir Táldal and myself to lift the concession requirement for forest property. Then, on behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Torgeirar Träldal and myself, I would like to make a proposal to lift the obligation to live in forest properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e46	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e49	On behalf of the representatives Erna Solberg, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure the quality and accessibility of the permanent and community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e54	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e66	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Trond Giske, Lars Peder Breck and Rigmor Aasrud will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e73	Unlike Norway, many countries have come a long way in terms of renewing, improving and simplifying the public sector. We don't have to go that far from Norway. Denmark has done a significant job in this area. Digital mailboxes have also been introduced. Only that alone has saved the Danes for 3 billion. DKK in postage costs per year. According to Secretary-General Per Morten Hoff of ICT Norway, a conservative estimate of how much can be saved by digitising and simplifying the public sector in Norway is 17 billion. kr per year. 17 B.C.E. kr is a significant sum. It's money that we could have spent on better services in the municipalities, in the public sector. We could use them for infrastructure, we could use them to reduce hospitals. We could also use them for tax expenses. It's a lot of things that one could have spent these money on if one had brought this in. But one hasn't. Numbers from Denmark also show that a digital request costs NOK 3; a manual request costs NOK 110. So there's no reason to think it's different in Norway. The difference is likely to be the same in Norway. But here it's done very little. And so we're not going to do the grips that make it possible for you to release resources that could have been used in completely different areas. Then is my question to the Minister of Renewal: Is there something wrong with the Norwegian people, or is it the government that has not done its job, since we are not able to achieve what the Danish people open up, simply to release funds that can be used for the benefit of the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e84	I do not agree with the questioner's assumption for the question, because we have actually done a lot in Norway. We have conducted a survey, a survey, of the 100 most used services in the state sector, and among the 15 with the largest extent, 13 are now fully digitised. Then I agree with the representative Hagesetter that there is still a lot to do. Therefore, 14 days ago, the government presented a digitisation programme, which has great ambitions for how to digitise more public services. In the international context, Norway is at the forefront. We have good broadband coverage for the population. We have a digitally competent population where a lot of people use digital solutions. We see that the oldest part of the population — some of whom are very concerned about — has also adopted digital solutions. Eight out of ten Nordics use digital solutions, and we see, for example, in the case of the State pension fund, two thirds of the applications come in electronically and can be processed electronically. As the representative Hagesetter says, creating a digital mailbox is a lot to pick up on postage. However, the most important thing to do when digitising is to change work processes, so that the process can be automated. That is where the great savings lie. That's what we've done – in the tax rate for tax returns, we've got it in the Loan Fund, and we've got it into the State pension fund. So now we're doing a lot of work to also get a foundation wall that makes it even more appropriate to use digital solutions for the public, and the government has notified in the digitization program that we're going to change the law, so that digital communication will become the main rule between the citizens and the public. The same will apply to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e95	I register that the government is conducting investigations, I record that one has a digitization program, and that one has thoughts about this. But I think it's time for action, now it's time to pick up these savings, this simplification that's in it, as Denmark has done. I feel that there are too many words, distributions and programs about this – and too little action. Denmark spent last year's $3.5 billion. kr to public IT project. In Norway, it's impossible to figure out how much we've used. In Denmark, there is also a type of ROI, Return on Investment calculations, i.e. a cost-benefit assessment, which looks at the value of an investment. There is something corresponding to it not in Norway. I am looking for when we can get action, I am not interested in hearing about the programs and the investigations and what the government is planning. That's what time we get the effect of this, I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e104	The effects come daily, and much of the effect is taken out, among other things. by the business community through the ambitious package the Minister for Industry has presented to the business community, where we will save the business for 5 billion. kr. We see it in the ether after the ether. But I need to say that here there's a need more than just to use big words, here you have to do a pretty basic job. Here it is important to plan well and create new systems. There has to be laws that allow us to apply the digital solutions, and it's incredibly important that we be able to find solutions that make the individual floors intertwine. We now use a lot of capacity to get programs and solutions that we can use across the individual floors. Digital mailbox is coming. We now have a new offer – before we presented the programme – to get up electronic identification and eID, and we have announced that we will come up with a legislative proposal to reverse the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e111	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Åge Starheim
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e114	When one records that the municipalities are unable to operate for more sick homes because of a lack of resources, a question has to be asked why the Council of State has not already been able to implement the same ICT system as one has done in Denmark. This could save tens of billion dollars. In the city we see an increasing bureaucracy and increasing costs of an increasing bureaucracy. I hear the Council of State say that it is important that one should go to work thoroughly, and I ask myself, why should one reinvent the powder? Just take a trip to Denmark and copy their solutions – at least the best. Then there is a system that Denmark has put in place, and which Denmark has saved a huge amount of money, which, in turn, could flow to the public sector and vice versa to build more sick homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e121	I can assure the representative Starheim that we have been to Denmark several times. We are lucky to have Nordic neighbours that we can learn from, and Denmark is also in Norway to learn from what we do in Norway. Denmark has some solutions that are more advanced than what we have in Norway, but we are very, very close to Denmark in development. Denmark has made good programmes for which they expect them to have significant efficiency gains, but they have not begun to make much more savings than what we do in Norway. It is not that we can produce a programme from Denmark and use it in Norway. There are municipalities and state enterprises that have ICT systems today that need to be adapted in Norway. It's been a long time since we've created ICT systems that fit each sector. What we're doing now is grabbing a grip to get more control so that we can develop our ICT systems so they're better connected. This applies internally in the country, and I am also very positive about getting the municipalities to do that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e128	Lars Myraune – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e131	The Council of State said in its answer to the main question that it does not keep up with big words, and we agree with that. Divi, which is a department under the Council of State, had a survey last year in which they concluded that there are four things that make it difficult to carry out a comprehensive ICT bet. The lack of political pressure, lack of legislative changes, cross-border money – i.e. money for the project – and organisational and technological coordination. The Council of State just said that it is political pressure, and we agree that the new digitisation programme is positive. Governments mentioned legislative changes, but then there was money and coordination. I guess we've seen that coordination is the most difficult part. What are the plans and deadlines for the implementation of this work and will it be coordinated with the need for action in the ICT sector in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e143	As I said in my reply to the previous questioner, when it comes to governance, there is a need to take a few more governance measures. That's why we in the digitisation program warn that we need more control. There will be cross-ministerial governance. In addition, the seven largest underlying agencies, such as the Brønn Island Health Registers, the Tax Directorate, the Health Directorate, Nav and others, have cooperated with a good deal of exchanges to work with standards where cooperation will be formalised and greater opportunities to coordinate common infrastructure related to the major enterprises with the largest data sets. That's one of the most important things we do. Then there will be appropriations in the government budgets in the future. But as I said, it is developing a new system for Nav, for example, a comprehensive work, which is not just deciding to do – it has to be developed. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e150	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e153	This question may be addressed to the Minister of Industry, but you may agree on who would like to answer. Technological development offers enormous opportunities, but also significant challenges. More and more digitisation is taking place, and large parts of our lives are happening and are being found on portals and in databases around the world. It is therefore essential that safety be maintained in high-seat areas when developing systems such as: will take care of our most personal data. For approx. A month ago, the whole of Norway was able to gain insight into Altinn-Kenneth’s most private personal data due to a failure of a data system in Altinn. After the altin problems a little over a year ago, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Industry and Trade said to NA24: "We cannot settle down on the fact that Altin does not tolerate much progress, and we will go through very carefully what has not worked today so that this situation does not arise again." Viewed in the light of the problems with Altinn and that it has deteriorated considerably this year compared to last year: Does the Government believe that the government has done a good enough job with this review?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e164	It is enough that the representative has to decide to which Council of State the representative questions. I don't think we should introduce a practice in which the state councils who want to do so respond. So I think the representative has to decide who he wants to put the question to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e167	Fine if the Minister of Industry will answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e172	It was to the Council of State Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e175	At least I'm glad that it's the theme of one of the state councils present, because this is a question of tax settlement, which is really under the finance minister's control. But my department is responsible for the Brønnøsund registers, which operate the Altinn. What the questioner says is quite correct: there were major problems last year. Then there were capacity problems, and the systems of the Altin did not tolerate all of the Northmen who at the same time wanted to get insight into their equation. This was done in a number of ways to improve this year, and after what we have experienced, capacity has largely gone well. On the other hand, there was another technological error, which meant that when someone logged in, the image of this Altinn-Kenneth was back, and private information was made available to others. It's totally unacceptable. We have been in close dialogue with Brønnøysund about this, and they also shut down the whole system in order to be sure that personal data did not deviate. But of course this is something that is not going to happen, and that we have to make sure is not happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e184	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e187	I also have a question for one of the state councils that is here – and not for those who hold press conferences and empty the press shed at the same time as we have the questionnaire – and it's for the Council of State Aasrud. Having an effective state vis-à-vis effective municipalities is important for our well-being. This government has increased the number of bureaucratic demands towards municipalities, increased reporting and increased all that municipalities are required to report back. 1 pst. savings in red tape and red tape requirements for municipalities lead to 1 billion. kr more in welfare – 1 pst. less bureaucracy in municipalities is 1 billion. kr more in welfare that can be given to citizens. So my question to the government council is: it's fine with swollen plans that you don't know exactly how to get the municipalities involved. However, what measures do the Council of State intend to take to improve the efficiency of the government's attitude towards municipalities, the government's demands for municipalities, all the new reporting requirements of the government towards municipalities, and how many statutory tasks to add to each municipality – making it less well-being for each individual citizen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e196	The relationship between the state and the municipality is, of course, a big message of its own, which is here for treatment, and one of the things we're warning in that big news is that we're going to look at the role of the directorates. I think that's important. I agree that we should think carefully about every time we ask for new reporting requirements from the local government sector. There, I think, we have a common responsibility – those that are in this room as usual, and we who are only in between – too often it is that there are questions about the facts from the local government sector. I have also experienced that it is a certain surprise when we are unable to answer that fact. So maybe we all have to go in ourselves and have a little less expectation that we can get information about everything we want from the local government sector. Of course, the government will continue to work on this. Digitalisation can be one way of helping us to operate more effectively in this area too, because more transparency and transparency can be gained in the treatment process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e203	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e207	Let me first say that I record that for the second time in three weeks, the government is demonstrating its arrogance towards the Stortinget by organising a press conference on a major matter while we resolve the spontaneous questioning. I ask the President to take this up with the government. So to the question, which is to the Minister of Industry present: The Varden newspaper writes in the leadership position today, after the public meeting at Her Island last night that finally confirms that thousands of direct jobs are being lost, that there is a reminder of the brutality of international competition – and that is it. Every day, Norwegian companies have to go out and fight against international companies, in which case Norwegian companies need competitive framework conditions on their own rather than a backpack with strange, burdensome conditions in terms of taxes, regulations and charges in addition to a high level of costs. In addition, we need to invest in knowledge and infrastructure for a better competitiveness in the future. We should be aware that the level of investment in Norway, excluding oil and gas – according to an OECD report that has just arrived – is now in line with Greece, and we are beginning to see the results of this weakening competitiveness outside oil. No one is closer to it than the Minister of Industry, who has to travel around the places affected, without particular material comfort in the luggage. My question is: is the Minister of Industry concerned about our competitiveness today internationally, and what will he do to make it better tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e216	First I have to say that I share the grief that REC did not see the opportunity to move on – not only in Herøya, but also in Glomfjord and Narvik. It's very bad that a company that only a few years ago was so viable, which had so much value and so many employees, now doesn't see it profitable to continue its operations. It has little to do with Norwegian framework conditions. It has to do with the fact that the price level of solar cells in the world has completely collapsed. It has to do with the fact that some countries have cut heavily in their support systems for the installation of solar panels, and it has among other things. to deal with China coming on the market with very cheap products. This is no comfort to those who lose their jobs, and we have to do everything we can to create new jobs and ensure that those who work in the REC have the opportunity to participate in the growth of employment that is taking place. However, from time to time there are changes in international markets that also affect Norwegian companies. The world has been through one of the toughest crises since the war. Norway has come out of that crisis — at least the first stage of it — with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. In addition, over the past six to seven years, some 250,000 more jobs have been created in Norway. Two thirds of them are in the private sector. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I travel far more often to companies that expand the number of employees, who invest and create more jobs, than to businesses that lay down, even those that are laid down, often prioritize in the travel business just to be present for those who lose their jobs. So the general picture is a little bit different than what the representative describes. It is a description of a country that is going very well and that has low unemployment and high employment growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e225	I just want to remind the Minister of Industry that the starting point for the question was not the particular situation in the PV industry, but the Varden reminder of how brutal international competition is. I did not do any black paint on the Norwegian situation. What's my question is what you'll do later. With regard to the description of creating new jobs, I would also like to remind the Minister of Industry that it is the level of employment that is crucial, and it has not been particularly increasing in recent years. The Minister of Economic Affairs arrested himself during the 2005 election campaign at the time Minister of Economic Affairs Børge Brende, whom he called a bluffmaker when he used the figures and not the level of employment. So I repeat my question for two reasons – firstly because it is important, and secondly because it was not answered: Is the Minister of Industry concerned about competitiveness today, and what will he do to make it better tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e232	I think every Minister of Industry is ever concerned about Norwegian competitiveness. That's the job of a business minister. But if you look at the different industries, it's a very different picture. The oil and gas industries go better than ever, not only because of high investment in Norway, but also because our companies are so excellent that they win market shares around the world. So it's part of the other industry that's going well, and then there's a third that's struggling, among other things. due to the international financial crisis and lower demand. We will continue to work on this, including: by presenting a new paper on Innovation Norway and SIVA, some of the most important tools in our toolbox, by presenting a new export finance mechanism, which ensures good funding for those who win contracts abroad, and many other measures. But the general picture in Norway is that we are doing better than any other European country. We have many times as much employment growth now as we had under the Bondevik government. A great many companies are doing very well, including in an international tough competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e237	There will be four follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e240	I record that the Minister of Industry again boasts of the growth of employment. We've heard that before. At the same time, Svein Flechten demonstrated that the employment rate, i.e. the employment rate, is exactly the same today as it was when the Stoltenberg II government came into operation in 2005. In the election campaign in 2005, we heard from opposition politicians Trond Giske that Minister of Industry Børge Burnde bluffed when he boasted of how many jobs had been created and did not talk about the employment rate. Does the Minister of Industry recognise that the proportion employed, i.e. the employment rate, is exactly the same today as it was when Bondevik II, the Centre-Right Government, went off in October 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e245	The President will only comment that if other politicians are usually accused of being unparliamentary, the term 'bluffing' is used. Now the representative probably used it as a quote. The President will say so in the hope that the President, to the extent that the then representative Giske said from the pulpit of the Stortinge, said that the then president was in charge of it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e248	It was a retrospectively correct. I don't know if that's opening for it. So during the Bondevik administration we got approx. 23,000 more jobs in Norway in four years. Now we have over 250,000 more jobs in six years, and that in the toughest crisis in Europe. It is not that when France, Spain, Italy and others have high unemployment, it is due to a lack of people. There are a lot of people in these countries. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of unemployment. So the fact that there has been a large population growth in Norway is no guarantee that there will be many more jobs. There could as well be greater unemployment by importing a lot of labour, or youth schools helping to increase the number of workers. So the creation of over 250,000 more jobs – two thirds in the private sector – must at least guarantee that industrial policy is not completely unsuccessful in Norway, so when Europe has – what is it – 24 million unemployed. That's my main score.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e255	Per Roar Bredvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e258	There is no doubt that large parts of business outside oil-related activities are struggling. Since 2008, public employment has seen steady growth in the number of persons employed, while the private sector is slightly below the 2008 figures. A good example of this development can be the company Jordan in my home country. A few years ago, there were almost 300 people working here. There were constant visits by politicians – among others. our current Prime Minister, etc. – who was sung in glory. Now it's approx. 40 people again, and visits by those or other politicians there are not many of them, if at all there are any. A toolbox has been mentioned in the past to help business. It may appear that it has not been put into service or that the tool does not fit. As a matter of urgency, the Council of State, with its capacity in a majority body, will contribute to strengthening the framework conditions in the context of competitive business, so as to avoid the flagging out of many companies, and also to strengthen their activities, including: through a simpler regulation and lower taxes, as the Progress Party wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e265	On that question I can answer an unconditional yes. We need to come up with more and more tools, and use them more and more, to facilitate Norwegian nutrition development. Because even if things are going well, very well in Norway compared to all the other countries – we have to say full employment – we should be aware that there is a tough international competition, and that the emerging economies in particular not only have a lot of workforce, but also have after each higher level of education and competition in more and more areas. Simplifying is just some of what we're doing. As the first government, we have set a very concrete goal: we need to simplify the world of businesses by 10 billion. kr in the year before 2016. We're already removing the audit obligation for small companies, that's the biggest simplification measure ever. We have reduced the capital requirement, from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000 for the companies. It now contributes to a record growth in ASs. We engage in digitisation of various reports and services, including: Through the ALTIN, and we're going to do a lot more, especially to simplify the world for small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e273	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e276	An increasing number of companies are going bankrupt or moving abroad because Norway is losing competitiveness. Yesterday's closure of the REC in Heresy adds itself to the list of a number of closures and lay-offs in industry in recent years. We know that this closure on Her Islanda both goes beyond the 500-600 associated with the company, and that it has major ring-effects throughout Grenland. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State follow up the communities affected by the closure of the corner stone company?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e285	It's here from the opposition -- all the time -- two questions in one. On the one hand, it is quite right that where a corner stone company is shut down, it is very serious for those affected. It is important that Nav, Innovation Norway and the County Council — all who can contribute — help those who lose their jobs to get into new work. Some find work very quickly, for others take longer, and it is always tough party for the oldest workers. So it's an important job the public systems can contribute here. But then there is a general picture of Norwegian industry going bad in these questions. We have to stop talking Norwegian industry down, because Norwegian industry is doing very well. We have as many jobs in industry and mining today as we had just before the financial crisis. So we have come through the financial crisis not only with solid growth in total employment but also with stable employment in industry, which is the hardest hit by the financial crisis. If we talk the industry down, we also send a signal to young people who choose education, that there is no sense. It's a very wrong signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e292	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e295	I hear what the Council of State is answering the representative Fleet about the general picture. But the left is concerned that developments are going in the wrong direction. The figures are clear: the proportion of the population involved in the founding and start-up of new enterprises has fallen, from 9.7 to 6.9 pst. In the past, Norway was active in an international context — now we are actually bypassed by countries such as the Czech Republic and Greece. In the latest version of Innovation Union Scoreboard, published on 7 February this year, Norway is in a 17th place in Europe when the capacity for innovation and innovation is compared. While in 2008 we had almost 5,000 of both gas companies and growth companies in Norway, in 2011, the figure is more than halved. So my question to the Council of State is, is the Minister of Industry as concerned as the Left about the wrong direction of development? And in that case, what new grip will the Minister of Industry take?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e304	I am satisfied with the state of Norway, but not satisfied with all the developments. However, there are many statistics: the World Bank recently produced a statistics showing that Norway has climbed from a seventh place to a sixth place across the world where it is best to do business. It's important for us to facilitate innovation, because we know that some companies are shutting down, jobs are disappearing, and we have to create new ones. That's why we've implemented the two biggest simplification measures ever for people starting businesses. The share capital requirement is reduced from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000, making it much easier to start an AS, and in particular to remove the audit obligation, which contributes to a location between 2 and 3 billion. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If an enterprise saves NOK 40,000, it goes straight to the bottom line. There's quite a lot of turnover to get such an extra bonus on the bottom line. So this means a lot to small companies, and makes it easier for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs to get started with their projects and new ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e311	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e314	My question goes to the minister of the church. The Minister of the Church has been at the Church Meeting, and I think she there noticed that there was a great commitment to the training reform – and not least a lack of follow-up this fiscal year of what was supposed to be a stepping-up plan. The reform of training is a plan adopted by an almost unanimous increase – minus one party – in 2003. It was then said that this training of faith should ensure that in the Church of Norway and in other religious and life-view societies, ‘stimulate the building of one’s own identity and understanding of one’s own culture and traditions in a society where the elements of different religious and life-view societies are becoming more and more rich. By nurturing young people who are safe in their identity, there is a great deal of respect and tolerance in meeting those who have a different belief or outlook on life’. Many people have believed that the government would follow up, as it has been followed up in the past, with a gradual escalation, so that several congregations could participate in this religious training. If you have followed this a little bit, you will see what success the training of faith has been in both the Norwegian Church and in other religious and life views. So my questions are, what is the reason why this has been down-prioritized by the government in 2012? And what can we expect, so that you can take back what is lost, and what you – rightly – could expect from religious communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e327	I fully agree with the questioner that the reform of faith training has been a success. We have also evaluated the measures being taken, and it shows great activity — and many children and young people receive a good offer through the reform of faith training. When Stortinget decided to introduce the CPR in 2003, it was said that a reform would take place over a period of five to ten years, reflecting the economic situation. Today, we've committed 204 million. SEK for the training reform, and there is something left before the target figure of 250 million. kr is satisfied. The government has the intention that we should follow up the religious training reform, but as I have said both in the press release last year and to the Council of Churches, it is possible that we will have to spend one year longer before we are in the goal of the reform as the intention was, because we had a tight budget and prioritised other things in health and care and within the church that we thought were more important than what we were able to do in the reform of faith education. But our attitude to the reform of faith training is firm: it will be implemented, but possibly one year later than what was intended when the plan was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e334	I'll come to the follow-up. I just wanted to point out in the introduction that the government has made sure that there is virtually no one present and follow this. In addition, the State Council in question, which was supposed to answer a question in the ordinary Questionnaire – a question that has already been raised – informed Stortinget yesterday that he could not be present in Stortinget today. Now we get the reason. We're going back to this from our party. Then turn to the supplementary question. Yeah, she's now saying it's an intention. I've gone to the department's own websites. It states that the objective is to achieve this over a period of 10 years and to step up appropriations for the 250 million reform. kr. According to the decision, this was to be in 2003 kroner, so today the amount is completely different. My question is, will we get something revised, or will we get the whole pot to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e343	The proposals for appropriations that come into revision and in future budgets will be presented by the government when we present the revisions and budgets. But the government insists that we have the intention of fulfilling the faith training reform. As I have said, it may take another year because we had a budget where we chose to give a different priority, but I stand by the promise given that we will carry out the faith training reform in the municipalities that remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e349	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e352	Many communities have received religious training and started many exciting and good projects. I also believe many communities have experienced that the means of training have helped to motivate the community. At the same time, there has been a class distinction between the communities that have been given access to religious training materials and those that have not received it and that are awaiting it. We also see that the means of faith training are quite different between the dioceses. I wonder what the council will do to balance this class distinction that has arisen between those who have been given, and those who probably have to wait quite a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e359	The way to phase in the faith training reform was adopted in a government where I think the representative Becquerad had more influence over it than I have. It was decided to take a congregation rather than to give everyone an equal amount and/or increase the amount year by year. We have followed up that system in our time. So it's the episcopal councils that follow up and make recommendations to us about what congregations are going on, and we've been faithful to that. We've been following the advice we've been given, and we're going to do that in the future. The class division that has arisen had to arise when one decided to phase in the reform of belief training in the way one did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e364	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e367	The Church was given a mission from the Stortinget, they were given a frame, and a substantial part of this was a stepping up towards a sum. The church has taken the ball – that's very good. They've made plans, they've stepped up the business, they've expanded the business, and not least they've made a commitment to what's to come, and they've hired people. When the escalation then dries, the Church has great consequences in terms of the need to reverse or suspend the plans in place, and that there is no longer any basis for funding employees. This creates an unpredictable and extremely difficult situation for the Church also as an employer. Does the Council of State recognize the responsibility she has for the Church to come into this difficult situation? How does she relieve the Church of that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e374	I don't understand that issue, because that is the way you grant money to the congregation, and if the communities then choose to do employment before you have been given a grant from Stortinget, it is not a responsibility I can assume. It is known that the reform of faith training is phased in in the way you do. So it's like waiting to do the jobs you're going to do, until you come up with the funding mechanism. If you do not take a risk even as I believe it is not right that a government and a large majority take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e379	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e382	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Since 2003, there has been a requirement for allowances in ASA companies. This has resulted in a large number of companies switching ownership to AS. Today's Business on Monday we could read that the new Minister for Gender Equality wants to extend the quota requirement to other companies as well. It's no less than state over-management of businesses and business, but there's nothing new from this government. We look at the same zeal to steer people's everyday lives in a number of contexts – whether it's a father's quota, mother's quota, women's quota into politics, or proposals for women's quota into theaters and movies, as the Council of State is well aware. It is no surprise that the Progress Party is opposed to state control in most areas. Some of the worst is when over-management is based on sex, as it does in this case. As a woman, I am provoked by the fact that the sitting government views women as weak individuals who need the help of the state to get up and down. This in itself is discriminatory. Let me take an example that I'm sure the Minister of Industry is well aware of. Trondheim Labour Party has probably chosen its best people as directors. There are – at least in this case – obviously more capable women than capable men in the Trondheim Labour Party. So the Minister of Economic Affairs' own local team has only 33 p.m. men in their rule. One might then ask, what qualified and competent women should give up space for the benefit of a less qualified man, so that this balance is balanced? Rather, the Minister of Industry should spend his time imagining real measures to promote business development, including combating the form field, which stifles small and medium-sized enterprises. My question is: Will the Minister for Economic Affairs reject Minister for Gender Equality No Marte Thorkildsen's new outing to impose on new businesses or AS sex quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e399	One must not have read much Norwegian or international history in order to establish that women have been given the opportunity to do the same as men, have been given the opportunity to take top positions both in politics, in business and in academia, to become more equal at home – voting, for that matter – has been a tough fight, which has been going on for many decades. The party of progress has taken a very small part of that fight. There have been others who have fought this – in all areas. It will be interesting to see how the four bourgeois parties will agree in this area – as in very many other areas. We in the government believe that women are strongly underrepresented in many sectors, not because women lack talent, progress or motivation. This is due, inter alia, to structural systems of discrimination. that men often see men, motivate men, and recruit men. It is well known from research that this is the case, not only in politics, but also in business and in academia. When I was Minister of Education, we calculated that if we were to wait for the natural development of the number of professors who were women, it would take over 100 years to reach 50/50. We thought that was a little too long. We also thought so when it came to business. That is why we supported it at the time when a civil government proposed to introduce quota rules for the ASAs. This has contributed to the emergence of more women in the business world. It's good for women because they get the same opportunities as men to make a career in business. But that's good for Norway too, because that means we're using the full potential of talent that exists in a country. It's an incredible waste of 50 pst. the population is to be used less than the other 50 pst, if we have the assumption that the talent, the momentum and the ability and the willingness to work are roughly equal between women and men. I think so, and then it's important to use women too. So we're going to have a discussion if we're going to expand this to the very largest AS. It's never going to be relevant to introduce this for all of the ASs. If we're going to do that, we're going to do it for the biggest companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e412	As usual, the Council of State does not answer the question — it only refers to many historical figures. I want to remind the Council of State that with regard to the quotaing of women into politics – and the Labour Party itself has a system of 50/50 distribution of women and men on its lists – results and reports from the 2011 elections show that there are actually no more women in politics. If the Council of State looks around in its own party, he sees that there are no more women in Norway who have leading positions, or are rapporteurs or rapporteurs. The question here is that when you are going to impose quotas on ASs, there is discrimination in itself – women cannot get these positions because of quality and knowledge, but must be allocated. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs think that women in business or elsewhere are less qualified than men, or does he think that women and men are equal, and therefore, in a logical sense, quotaing is completely meaningless?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e421	Let me take this with the policy first. One of the reasons why there's not equality in this room yet is, among other things, that the party makes good choices, which means that a few men and almost no women in the hall. It's just reading the list of representatives, and we can quickly agree that this contributes to a gender bias. I think progressing partisans are as talented as progressing parties. Nevertheless, there is an unusually large male overweight. Then you get to think about why that happens. In business, studies have been carried out following the introduction of the quota rules in the ASAs, which show that the persons on board, who are women instead of men, are as qualified, as well-trained and as well-trained as those who sat there before. There was no lack of talent that caused few women – there was no need to look for the capable women who existed. The nomination provisions have helped simply election committees and general meetings to produce more talents in the Norwegian business community. It's good for women, it's good for business, and it's good for Norway – even if it's stupid for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e431	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e434	On 1 January 2006, a Gender Distribution Act entered into force on ASA Governors. It says that at least 40 pst. by the representatives of the Governing Board shall be women. The Progress Party was the only party on the Stortinget that voted against this law, which also had retroactive effect, with a transition period of two years. The party of progress voted against this law, as we are opposed to discriminating people because, among other things, we are opposed to it. sex. The Progress Party wants to equalize people. Qualifications, not sex, will determine your career, and you will be met as the one you are. In the case of ASAs, it is a fact that the number has been significantly reduced – they have shifted to becoming ordinary ASs. While today it is approx. 200,000 ASs, it's only 300 ASAs. When you look at these developments, the Council of State and the Government really think that the ASA project has been a success – so when you see the negative trend in the number of companies that have ASA as their way of being run?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e443	Yes, I believe it has been a formidable success. The only thing I'm sorry for about the proposal for quotas in the ASA companies is that it was not a red-green government that proposed this, but a government council from the Right, Ansgar Gabrielsen. I would like to have the credit for both proposing it and having it adopted. Then we'll see if we can get the credit to expand this to the very largest of the corporations. A good question is, why should it apply to large ASAs and not to the very largest AS? But once again, I'm clarifying: it's about the biggest companies, not the hundreds of thousands of small ASs. If it was such that female talents emerged automatically in society, why did it go so many years before we got more equality in politics, more equality in business and more equality in the university sector? Does the Advancement Party think that women actually didn't have this talent, didn't have this motivation, didn't have this drive? Or can you see that there were other, structural reasons why women didn't come forward, and that you had to take action, just to ensure equal opportunities, so that both girls and boys can have the same dreams of what they're going to be, and what they're going to do here in life?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e452	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e455	This follow-up question goes to Council of State Aasrud. What we heard from the Minister for Gender Equality through the newspapers was perceived by the owners and managers of 165 000 small limited liability companies, and some larger ones, in Norway as spending a lot of their time -- I kept saying -- chasing the daughters of others rather than having their own sons into the boards. This is going to mean a lot more work for the companies, but it's also going to mean state bureaucracy. It's going to mean control arrangements, it's going to mean follow-up, and it's going to mean sanctions against the thousands that are not going to get this done in the small companies. Therefore, I think it is relevant to ask the Council of States what thoughts she has about what it will mean for simplification and state bureaucracy that we put in place such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e464	I am absolutely sure that Norwegian companies, the large ASs – if we choose to introduce quota provisions there too – will quickly see that they have the same benefit of having all the competences available to the large ASA government that they have, and that we have seen have been sensible in a number of areas of society. I am absolutely sure that, if you choose to introduce it, essential control mechanisms will not be necessary to fulfil what is intended by such a proposal. And then you have the opportunity, of course, to report through annual reports, and in other ways, how to put together your board. This is done today, and I am absolutely sure that it will not mean an increase in the load on the one that might apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e471	Øyvind Hope - for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e474	The follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry. It is true that former Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen was an important contributor and co-player in order to get this in place, but the bill was presented by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality Laila Davay. Since then, the Women’s Panel has proposed the introduction of a 40 pst rule in relation to the top and middle management level in state establishments. It might be interesting to hear the Minister of Industry's reflection around such a suggestion, in the light of the well-deserved rose he gave the Bondevik II government for its grip. But then I could imagine challenging the Minister of Industry to reflect a little on the importance for the Norwegian business community that we have actually carried out this new crime work through this 40 pst. rule, which makes us secure women and men 40 pst. representation on the boards of public limited-liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e483	Honor him who is to be honored, that the Christian people may have their due honor. It further reinforces how clever it is of the Christian People's Party to cooperate with us rather than with the main issues of the Progress Party. I think this is probably an area where it is much easier to find with us a sensible and good policy. I think we're not just going to rest on the quota rules, because there are some areas where you can't quota yourself to good results, for example. when you have a single management position — even at a middle management level. That's why we've now asked our companies to have gender equality strategies in the field of recruitment and management, and I think we should also have a conscious strategy for it in other areas. I think this is a fantastic competitive advantage. When I travel around the world and see businesses and businesses where they don't use women in the same way, I think that jamming me here we have a big and secret weapon that uses our entire population in its full potential – also for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e492	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e495	My question goes to the Minister of Renewal and Administration. The Council of State is responsible for government administration and for renewing and streamlining the State sector. In the time of the red-green government, we see that bureaucracy has made its appearance in a number of areas, and there is little evidence that this will change. Since the beginning of 2007, the number of employees in, for example: The state road service increased by 1,473. This means that Vegvesenet has had one new employee every day since 2007, without building more new roads. The analysis institute Menon also presented this week a report from the Academics on public procurement, which shows that it can be saved – a conservative estimate – between 20 and 30 million. kr per year in this area. In addition, in the health sector, more than 12 000 new years have passed since the hospital reform was introduced, but more than 6 000 of these are non-medical jobs. Municipal Norway is also becoming more expensive and expensive – it is not necessarily the responsibility of the Council of State, but it is the government’s – and the administration is growing and growing. In fact, the bureaucracy bill grew by a total of six billion. kr from 2005 to 2009. In the Communication on State and Municipality – which the Council of State itself was discussing earlier today, and which we are now discussing in the Committee – the government points out that there has been a sharp increase in state legislation in the major sectors of municipal activity. The government also says that you have to look at the directorates, and it says: «The government believes there is a need for more knowledge of how changes in the directorate's responsibilities and tasks affect municipal freedom of action» [[...]] The question will then be: does the Council of State share the Right's concern about the growing bureaucracy? And if not – what does the Council of State think it is that has failed in the last seven years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e510	The fact that there have been 1473 more employees in the State Road Administration, I believe that this government has made a strong commitment to transport. Much more money is spent on transportation, and it is also important that we be able to carry out good transportation projects at the right quality and price. There must then be some who ensure that both the purchases made by the State Road Service are correct, and that the private companies that provide services to build the roads are controlled, so that you get good quality of what you buy. Then I agree that it is important that we focus on, among other things: purchases. Making purchases efficient and correct is a good contribution to reducing red tape and moving work, as we prefer, to other parts of well-being. Then it is important that we constantly review and see if it is possible to make savings and put in place measures that make us run the public sector more efficiently. I believe that the digitisation programme that we are presenting now is an important tool. Being able to use digital tools, digital work processes, also helps us reduce bureaucracy. We've seen that in the tax case and the state loan fund. But there are large and demanding tasks ahead of us to make use of this and to make it more efficient in the whole sector, so that we also have services that are interconnected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e517	It was a little difficult to attend the press conference on digitisation, because it took place at the same time as the Stortinges Question Time two weeks ago. But there are some other elements that the government obviously has not intended to do anything about. The question then is whether it is the government's view that the number of heads in the public sector is a good target for wealth development in Norway. Is there a drive for efficiency in the government – that's what we need to ask questions about. I have not heard any good proposals from this Council of States on how to streamline the public sector beyond that digitisation message, which is another message to be launched in the long term. The question then is whether the Council of State would like to renew more and manage less, or whether the concept of renewal is an empty shell without content.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e526	I can inform the representative of Greece that the press conference is at government.no, and can be seen at any time completely independent of time. The main steps taken by our government in renewing the public sector are the major reforms on pensions, disability and the effectiveness of our healthcare system by providing services at the right level. The interaction reform is a difficult reform of renewal, which helps us to use our resources more properly than we have done in the past. These are the most important grips. The most important steps are taken in each sector by how we operate and organise the various measures there. State Council Giske is now looking at Innovation Norway. This is a good example of how we are constantly helping to renew and ensure that as many public budgets as possible can be used for well-being rather than for bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e535	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e538	I think we should stick a little bit to the transport sector. There has been a real drought since 2005. Let me give you a little rug: The Bondevik government established Mesta and then implemented a regional reform within the state road system and saved 800 million. kr per year for road construction. The example of this government is that it also had a regional reform and transferred 18 000 km of road to the county municipalities, accompanied by a number of increases in the number of bureaucrats both in the county municipalities and in the state road system. Actually, it's now that of 7.5 billion. kr that goes to operation and maintenance on the roads, it is actually only 700 million. kr that goes to the asphalt and road surface. So it's going in the wrong direction. What are the plans of this Minister for Renewal in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e547	It is the Minister of Transport who is responsible for the organisation of the transport sector, and we have a Minister of Transport who is committed to using the means to maximise the use of the Road Administration's resources in the right way. Then I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Transport will focus on exactly what Halleraker’s representative has to say – that we get the most production of road services for the funds that Vegvesen has, and use them as much as possible for bureaucracy. The Minister of Transport has also announced in connection with the Digitalisation Communication that we are taking simple steps to ensure that we are now not sending out banners. It is an important, symbolic tool, which also shows that the mode of transport uses the digitised solutions. I think it's also going to get more of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e554	Gjermund Hageseeter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e557	While many countries around us are reducing bureaucracy, we are increasing bureaucracy here in Norway. This means that in the short term we can keep unemployment in Norway lower than we could otherwise do, but in the long term this will obviously weaken competitiveness and drive unemployment back. In Norway, we have many municipalities that are also struggling with the economy. According to ICT-Norway figures, municipalities could save several billion dollars each year by better and more efficient use of ICT in the municipal sector and also by coordinating their web form. The challenge for the local government sector is that we have a lot of municipalities that can't coordinate this themselves, and if something is to be done, one must also take action from the central government. Then my question to the Minister for Renewal is: is there any plan to take action, so that a co-ordinates the web form in the municipal sector and gets a more efficient use of ICT in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e568	Yes, it is. KS has taken an affordable initiative to coordinate the local government sector. There has been an investigation work, which is now under management in KS. My department has contributed to financing that work, precisely because we see that it is important that the local government sector acts more coordinatedly. If we are to be able to achieve coordination gains between the municipalities and the state, we need to meet a more consistent municipality of Norway than is the case today. Although there is heavy cooperation between the ten largest Norwegian municipalities in the ICT field, it is important that Kommune-Norway is more consistent and can also have the right expectations of the state in the interaction we need on ICT. We welcome the coordination approach taken by KS and look forward to having a clear municipality of Norway, which also demands the state and can contribute to the development tasks we have together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e573	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e585	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn Question 4, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is responsible. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 8 and 9 from the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg and Jan Arild Ellingsen respectively to the Minister for Defence are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e607	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e614	A question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Rights believe that a good society is growing from below, from commitment and commitment to civil society, among individuals and families. Today, an immigrant with a temporary residence permit risks being sent out of the country if he takes on voluntary work in addition to a full job. What will the Council of State do to ensure that migrant workers who fulfil the full-time requirements of an employer are not penalised for taking on important voluntary positions in the field of leisure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e628	The Government aims to ensure a comprehensive voluntary policy that facilitates everyone’s participation. In order to follow-up and concreteise this, the Ministry of Justice and Security introduced a new provision in the Foreign Regulation which regulates the admission of foreigners to voluntary, free-of-charge work for humanitarian, non-profit or religious organisations without requiring a residence permit. This provision entered into force in June last year. The new provision is intended to clarify that it is possible to participate in voluntary free-of-charge work regardless of the authorisation of the non-resident in Norway. Non-residents, such as: thus having a residence permit to work or study here, it shall be possible to carry out such work on a voluntary basis, free of charge, even if this does not result from the residence permit. Similarly, asylum seekers and other non-residents without a residence permit shall also be able to participate in such voluntary free-of-charge work in line with others. There are certain requirements for the free work that foreigners can do without a residence permit. Voluntary work free of charge must include, inter alia: exclude activities normally carried out by paid employees or those normally purchased by traders. This is partly due to the prevention of exploitation and partly to the prevention of competition with industry. There may be cases where the foreign authorities will have to take action and assess whether a foreigner actually carries out voluntary free work or whether the work is of such a nature that the performer is expected to receive remuneration as in a general employment relationship. In the latter case, a residence permit will normally be required. The control of such cases is essential to prevent the exploitation of non-residents and to ensure the proper functioning of the system of voluntary, free-of-charge and residence permits for workers under foreign law. I would like to stress that I am concerned that any foreigner, with or without a residence permit, should be able to participate in the type of voluntary free-of-charge work exempted from the requirement for a residence permit in the new provision. I would also like to receive further feedback if the representative knows that the system is not working as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e641	This matter has, of course, its origin in a specific matter. It's a Chilean civil engineer who has a full-time job but wants to be a good citizen of society. He has taken on a job that is not free of charge, because he has to be paid – it is Uloba he works for – by helping a severely disabled boy four hours a week. On the basis of that work, he has received a letter from the UDI saying that he risked being sent out of Norway because he had broken the terms of the Foreign Affairs Act. I understand this with voluntary, free work. But when someone makes an effort and contributes to being a good citizen of society and integrates, it should be avoided that they are met with the kind of reactions from the UDI. Now the matter is over, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e650	As I understood the last remark from the questioner, he says that this matter is settled. I can confirm that. Based on the information I have, this concerns a non-resident who has been granted a permanent residence permit. I think it is very important that we have legislation in this area that ensures exploitation and social dumping, and that the scheme concerns voluntary work for humanitarian, non-profit and religious organisations. There may be volunteer centres, sports teams, etc. But in terms of work that we normally expect is paid, and where we know that there can be situations of exploitation, I think we have got a sensible regulation in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e657	I have to say, I'm going to miss the last answer to the Minister of Justice. I very much agree that we are not going to have a code that allows for social dumping, but in this case we are actually talking about an immigrant who is integrating, who will participate in the Norwegian community, who – I kept saying – will contribute to the great Norwegian virtue. He doesn't help a disabled person four hours a week because he needs that money. He does it because he has a social commitment. Then the question of the law might be a little square. It is okay that the matter has now been changed, that he has received a permanent stay. But there has been a pretty heavy burden in the quite long time this case has been going on, where he, because he assumed – call it – a social mission, was threatened with being sent out of the country. That is not the way we can do it, and I ask the Minister of Justice: is there any chance that a person can look at the legislation again to find arrangements for this to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e666	I do not think this needs to be isolated into a problem that concerns only foreign asylum seekers or other foreigners who are applying for a stay in Norway. The discussion of what kind of activity can be imposed or agreed to be made unpaid is a discussion we know from other circumstances in our society. It is important not to establish legislation which is unclear as to what is normal to buy in the market from local or other traders, or as to conditions suitable for exploitation and social dumping. An asylum seeker or another foreigner who wishes to stay is in a vulnerable situation. That is why, in my opinion, the legislation is well prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e677	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Both of Troms and Middle Hålogaland police districts are now coming to voice concerns about a reduction in the number of posts. Both police districts face major distance challenges. This negatively affects the response time, and the threshold to pull out is going to be high. How does the Council of State explain this reduction in positions, and how does this fit with the description given by the Council of State to the Stortinget on developments in Police Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e686	The Police Directorate allocates the budget framework to police districts once a year without subsequent additional appropriations and then in the light of the State budget. Police districts are not allocated posts, but a framework budget that the police chief has made available to achieve the best possible police service in the district. It is police district management who is responsible for resource allocation and service arrangements and who assesses whether resources should be used for posts or deployed in other important areas to ensure a good police service throughout the police district. I would like to point out that the government has provided a significant strengthening of the police budget and also to increase the admissions to the Police College in recent years. Additional funds have also been allocated to assist police districts in recruiting high school police students who have passed the graduation exam. Trom's police district has a budget of 212.2 million. kr for the current year. This is an increase of nearly 6 million. kr from 2011 to 2012. The budget for Middle Hålogaland is 192.3 million. kr, and there is an increase of close to 4 million. kr from 2011 to 2012. Troms and Middle Hålogaland police districts are like other police districts facing investment needs, which require strict financial management and also a good balance between operational and investment expenditure. I trust that the disposal of resources by police officers in Troms and Middle Hålogaland districts will provide a satisfactory police service in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e695	I hear the Council of State says that the government has strengthened the police, but the truth is that the police feel that their budgets are such that they need to reduce the number of posts to get things going around. This means that the police officers now warn that it will go beyond the provision of services. There are fewer tasks to be carried out and, in addition, there will be an impact on preparedness. More than me are engaged in this matter now. One group of rapporteurs in the region has said that the 20 posts mean that you get a longer response time, and that you no longer have the certainty that the police will actually come when you really need it. Could the Council of State imagine going to Middle Hålogaland and getting involved in the police situation in one of the country's most important police districts, which include Ofoten, Lofoten, the West and South Troms, and which actually also have four medium-sized cities in their midst?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e702	The government is planning to present a performance reform to the Storting in the area of the Police and Lone Civil Service. I would like to welcome an invitation to both that part of the country and other parts of the country to get an insight into what the challenges look like in the different parts of the country. We need to have a high quality service. We're going to have a well-trained corps that's used for police tasks, and there's been a question of how we can use civilians in the police and county seats as well. I am absolutely sure that the use of new technologies on a larger scale than today could also help to increase the quality of the service provided by the Norwegian police every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e711	High quality of service must mean that the police can really exert power on what should be the police’s most important tasks. One of the challenges for the Middle Hålogaland police district is that it is a large district, but one of two districts in Norway that do not have a prison in its immediate vicinity. This means that the police in this police district are being wasted extra for resources, both related to people who follow to and from prison, and the money this transport costs. It has been working for a long time to establish prison places in this region, but this remains equally unresolved. Will the Council of State now contribute to the establishment of detention centres in Central Hålogaland and to the release of police officers from travel management activities to other, high-priority police tasks? What other measures will the Council of State put in place to ensure that 117 000 citizens in this police district have a police service to ensure that the police are there when needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e718	Of course, in addition to money, quality through education and skills, there is also a question of the number of officials. The government has also facilitated an increase in the number of trained police officers. Of course, all of this is linked. Prison transport is a resource-intensive part of the police service, but it is also important to ensure that we have a modern facility at our prisons and institutions in criminal matters. That's why we're running a capacity plan for the criminal justice system. That there will also be opportunity to see these things in context in the future, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e736	This question has been transferred to the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the matter. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e743	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘I, the undersigned, on 16 April 2012, had the joy of driving from Rognan in Northern Ireland to Oslo. Parts of the road network are good, but the jam is very bad. Not least, the area from the Nordic border to the south and into the sea is very poor. The same applies to the area from the lake to the basket. Whenever those driving the E6 in Northern Ireland can expect this road to have a quality that is at least as good as rv. 3 through the Østerdalen, since today there are many quality differences, although one is a national road and one is a European road?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e752	I agree that there is a great need for improvements to E6 in Helgeland, in line with many other road sections in Norway. In the 2010–2019 national transport plan, government funds for the recovery/restructuring of E6 on the E6 Brenna–Brattås–Lien section with plant start during the first four-year period and completion during the last six-year period have been added. In addition, priority has been considered as a matter of priority for State resources to start the recovery of E6 on the Mo-Bolna and Mo-Osen routes during the last six-year period. It is further argued that if a partial toll-funded E6 deployment is agreed on in Helgeland, it will be possible to further develop it. Recovery of E6 on the Brenna–Kapskarmo route started in 2011. Work will be continued in 2012 with a view to completion in 2013. In addition, local authorities have joined an arrangement for the partial toll-financed deployment of E6 on Helgeland. Although the municipality of Hemnes has withdrawn its accession, the county council has decided in February this year that the municipality of Nordland is nevertheless in favour of toll-financed development. It is therefore well suited for the further development of the E6 in Helgeland, but the final priority of state resources for development beyond 2013 will normally be through work on the National Transport Plan for the period 2014-2023. I can make sure that I see it as important to secure good standards for E6 both in Helgeland and further north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e759	I'm not going to take this out to a debate on tolls, because there I know where the government is, and the government knows where the Progress Party is. We're going to leave it. I'm a little worried if it's the way ambition here is as vague as it is, because when you drive through Northernland, you don't have an alternative way to drive, like you do. if you have, for example: shall drive from parts of the East where you can drive rv. 3 or E6 to the north. There's an option. If you want to drive a car through the state of Nordland, the E6 is the solution. Today, the qualities that can otherwise probably only be experienced in thousands of joys in heavenly experiences and visions. I think that's worrying. That is why I want to challenge the Council of State to be even more concrete: This means, for example, that, as the Council of State said instead, all the time you have a majority government, you can expect to have a consistent quality of E6 in the Nordic countries corresponding to Rv. 3 during the next planning period of the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e768	State council Meltveit Kleppa answers whether or not there will be an end to the heavenly experiences of E6.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e771	The rightmost one with the descriptions that Elling here gives. Let me underline: there are constant improvements on the road network. We're now using traffic for 12 billion. kr more per year than a few years back. Although a lot of money has been made. It's probably only one week since I was standing here answering a question from a progress party representative. That's what I'm talking about. 3 and questions about reparation there. That's what we're repairing for 100 million. kr every year. There's also a lot of mess, just like it's on the E6 along Helgeland. But as I said, there are several measures happening in this period, and it is spring 2013 that we are going to take a final position on what the national transport plan for the next ten years will look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e778	With all possible respect, I'm going to repeat myself from now on: it's probably the case that the Council of State, in the light of backwardness, is reasonably aware that that Council of State, together with the rest of the government, is probably adopted in the Grand Duchy since it has a majority government. But also leave the rhetorical debate. Governments pointed out the improvement of quality improvements. I think that's good. Then I'm going to challenge the state council on another part of it. A few years ago, we opened the Korg Mountain Tunnel. It has now been closed because of the wasteful work, which has resulted in large televised passages through the openings in the tunnel in the south and in the north. It has now been said to be closed for six months. I don't remember the amount of rehabilitation, but it was big. I have also understood that it was actually believed that the private contractor has not done a good enough job, but that after that one has gone back on it. Since the Council of State is concerned with quality raising, how are we to avoid scandals of the type that I believe the Korgberg tunnel is, which hit the drivers in such a way that you are now going to drive the old road again, and avoid throwing good money after bad money?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e787	I will have the most possible path and the most possible path for the money. So we're constantly concerned that we're going to spend the most of the money we're allowed to maintain, and where there's talk of renewal, restitution and new ways, the most possible of the money is going to that. But sometimes it is that work needs to be done better. Then it happens that one has to close in order to get that improvement. Let us be happy that we also have legislation on road safety, which means that we have to close down. Then people can enjoy a better Korg mountain tunnel. Then I have to say that everything is so great as now is done both by better maintenance and by new plants. But I look forward to, like the representative Ellingen, further improvements along the E6 in Northern Ireland, because that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e798	‘A recent report to the Bergensalliansen shows that the inhabitants of the Region Vest have significantly higher self-payment per capita in road projects than the rest of the country. This reality is reinforced by the proposal for a statute which has now been presented. Most dramatically, the difference in a 45 pst. Achievement of the national transport plan would be timely, with 52 pst. in the West Region and 37 pst. in other regions. Will the Council of State do something in its work on the national transport plan to correct this imbalance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e805	I notice that the representative Halleraker is busy with the geographical distribution of the next national transport plan. So am I. This government has a clear objective of providing an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system that meets society’s transport needs and promotes regional development. I believe the representative Halleraker has agreed with me that this is a good goal. The proposal to which the representative refers is precisely a proposal from the Eta and Avinor to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. This is the basis for the work that is currently being done in the two departments. I've said that before, and I can repeat it here: the ultimate plan that is being made for the Storting will be different from this proposal. The proposal from the etats and Avinor is not just one suggestion. The proposal contains measures and priorities within four different framework levels. This will provide us with a basis both for final framework distribution and for redistribution between sectors and regions. Halleraker takes only one option, the highest one, and picks out only one region. There is a lot to choose from in the proposal, and with other framework levels, the distribution is of course different. There are just such questions that we are now working to clarify. I must also remind you that the numbers in the proposal on tolls are, of course, only an estimate. When it comes to tolls, for which Halleraker also asks questions — let me just underline that tolls are useful for the first where there is local and regional initiative to do so, and for the second where local and regional tolls are involved. Then there is handling in the department and in the government before we may put a case before the Stortinget. So these payments must be processed locally and regionally before they are finally settled in this room. We can't, and we won't, control these local initiatives from Oslo. In the next national transport plan, we will have a good regional distribution. Yes, I have even said that I have an ambition that we should have an even better distribution than in the existing national transport plan. I also hope that will be the result when Halleraker and the others in this room have completed their national transport plan until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e820	I thank you for your answer. I want to go a little further on the reasoning about this in terms of the profitability strategy that has also been launched in the NTP proposal, namely that we want to achieve the highest possible social benefits for the invested crowns. A 49-billion-billion-dollar investment framework. will provide a net benefit of 37 billion. Then it's actually like that of 47 pst. of this total net profit for the country comes to 37 million. from Hordfast and Rogfast, which are two very important projects on the E39 in the West. Will this not mean that the E39, and especially the Rogfast and Hordfast, must be given a high priority in the Council of State's NTP proposals? Can we expect it to happen when she makes her proposal, and is as clear as she was at Intercity bet earlier today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e829	Intercity, from today's point of view, was followed up in a big-time message presented to Stortinget. It was the etatane's proposal also with Intercity. I have underlined that I want to have a time fixing, and I am very happy that the government has joined it now. When it comes to Hordfast, Rogfast and the Free E39, I'm also very happy that we've seen a job going along the entire ladder, where we've got some clarifications so far, where we're going to get someone in 2012. What I can say about it today is that both Rogfast and Hordfast are very important projects and have good figures for profitability. Finally, when and how do I have to get back to the next national transport plan? Rogfast's inside it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e836	I thank you for your answer. Let's keep going with the NTP and the climate message as it's been up to date today. This is where there is a great deal of initiative on the railways, and in particular the Intercity Triangle here in the East. That's very good. I would also like to mention my belonging to Hordaland, which has been the initiative of the business community on an Intercity section of Stavanger–Bergen. But does this great effort mean that the road sector will get less? And in that case, will this not mean that the share of the own-payment – that is, the share of the toll – for parts of the country that do not benefit from this major railway effort will be even more distorted? Then we're back to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e845	Thank you for saying for the first time that in today’s NTP, i.e. during this four-year period, the Eigenestunellen – which is an important part, an important start on the free E39 – is ready. There's funds in there, and it's also such that they're trying to lead Rogfast. Secondly, Intercity — alerting the climate and time-fortification today, and expanding the railways in the other metropolitan areas. Thirdly, a railway bet shall not go beyond the road. The distribution between track and road in today’s NTP shall also form a basis for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e858	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Despite the new farm communication, only 6 pst. by Norwegian farmers, a strong belief in increased incomes in the future. This shows that Norwegian agricultural policy is not working and that new elements need to be introduced, as the Progress Party wants. Does the Council of State understand the pessimism that exists within parts of the industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e865	The representative of Bredvold refers to a survey carried out by the Nations in the context of the handling by the Storting of a communication on agricultural and food policy. 37 pst. they have great or partial confidence that the agricultural notification contributes to a farmer's income increase. 30 pst. they have little or no confidence in an income promise for the farmer. I have met many who are concerned about the incomes of agriculture. I say to them that the government takes those signals seriously. Therefore, every day, the red-green government has worked systematically to improve the income opportunities in the industry. So far, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, we have given agriculture the same incomes as other groups have. Income opportunities have arisen as a result of increased target prices, increased budget support and increased agricultural deductions. With effect from 2012, we have simplified and removed the food production fee, which will also strengthen the competitiveness of the food industry. We have also improved investment opportunities by increasing depreciation rates for livestock. That's what we've delivered. The revenue has increased by more than 70 pst. Since the red-green government assumed responsibility for Norwegian food production, we now promise to ensure farmers' income development and social conditions in line with other groups. The government will therefore further develop agricultural incomes and welfare policies, based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005. On top of this policy, we have set an ambitious target of increasing production. By 2030 we will be six million Northmen. Therefore, the main objective and message of the new agricultural and food communication is to increase food production in Norway, as demand for an increasing population increases. Together, this shows the government's willingness to strengthen Norwegian agriculture. I also think it is a relatively free question from the representative of Bredvold. So for what revenue increase is the Progress Party able to promise the Norwegian farmer? It's little or nothing. In the context of the examination of the 2012 State Budget, the Progress Party proposed to cut the agricultural agreement by 7.5 billion. kr in one year. It corresponds to a 62 pst cut in agricultural remuneration for labour and equity. Calculated per year on the total agricultural account, it corresponds to a decrease in income of about 1 %. DKR 140 000 How such a policy should give confidence to increased income in the future is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e878	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is a fact that the number of farmers has fallen a lot since 2005. The number of farms has fallen. The number of blankets on which food is produced has fallen. The only thing that's gone up is the number of empty farms. When you also know at the same time that it's only 14 pst. Of all farmers who have this as a full-time job — who have all their income from it — this must show that it is not the greatest optimism among farmers in the country or in the industry in general. Had it been, I would think there had been more farmers. I would think that there had been several deacons that had been grown – and I think we had had fewer empty farms. So you could say that the Progress Party has a different policy. Yes, we have a different policy – a completely different policy. What we want is for the individual farmer to have more freedom. We're going to reduce bureaucracy and get a completely different piece of legislation. For example, we want to do this. cut out maximum prices – and lots of things like that. But it is the Council of State that is the Council of State – that is why I ask the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e885	It is true that there have been major changes in Norwegian agriculture in the last 10, 20, 30 years — changes that we have also seen in other countries — because we have introduced new technologies, and we have introduced new forms of work. We have thus also managed to maintain production with a lower labour input. This is in itself a good example of how we manage to solve challenges with lower labour input. At the same time, we have an ambition to improve income opportunities in agriculture — and so on. We have, as I said in my previous post, worked on it all the time as long as we've been in government, and we've said that we should also develop further and focus on the future. One example is that there is a rather high level of investment in agriculture right now. There has been a slight decrease since 2010, but there is a high level compared to the level at the beginning of the 2000s. There are many things that indicate that Norwegian agriculture is doing better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e892	I thank the Council of State for a new response. There is no doubt that Norwegian agriculture is regulated and governed by the political system. The provisions are such that if you, for example: has a milk quota of 400000 litres and wants to increase it is more or less impossible. When you want to take more people into a joint venture than is permitted by the law today, that is not possible. When you want to disburse parts of your farm, or possibly sell the entire farm, the purchaser and the seller do not agree on the price – it is the state that decides what the price should be. That's the way I can frame up. To what I said earlier, that the number of farmers, the number of farms, and the number of deaks has gone down, is my simple question: is it worrying the council?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e899	Yes, I am concerned that in some rural areas, in some municipalities, we have a very large dilution, so that there will be few left to produce food, and that can help to increase food production in the future – and maintain cultural landscapes, which are also an important objective of agricultural production. But I am convinced that the Norwegian farmer, the Norwegian food producer, will deliver what we want. We work to facilitate it through the framework conditions that we have, which are both economic, legislative and practical. Let me underline: the recent agricultural and food reports in Stortinget also provide for the modernisation of property policy. We're going to make it easier to divide from plots, we're going to have a more active sharing law, we're going to tighten up on the tillage law -- we're going to have a restriction on the tillage circuit -- and we're going to have a new tillage law. We also need to take into account that such things will affect future development opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e928	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-25.ana.ud1447e943	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
