ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e26	The representative, Arve Kambe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e29	On behalf of the representatives of Eli Skolaand, Svein Flätten, Lars Myraune and myself, I propose to introduce a judgement in the enforcement of a breach of the rules in form completion where there is no personal gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e34	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e37	On behalf of Siv Aida Rui Skatem, Ulf Leirstein, Åse Michaelsen and myself, I have the pleasure of promoting a proposal for a ban on begging.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e42	The representative Michael Tetzschner will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e45	On behalf of the representatives of Trond Helleland, Ingjerd Schou, André Oktay Dahl and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on increased housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e50	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e53	On behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Jørund Rytman and the undersigned, I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative to introduce the principle of periodicity in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e59	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e62	On behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and myself, I am pleased to present a proposal for measures for lower fuel prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e79	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, Tora Aasland and Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e86	The municipal minister is often busy with local self-determination and local democracy in festivities, but apart from that, there is not much openly happening in that area – on the contrary, things indicate that things are going in the wrong direction. Feedback from local authorities suggests that local democracy is narrowed – it is weak – and one feels tied to both hands and feet. So you see that the state almost acts like a predator, where you're still getting away with a local space of action. It does one in the form of laws and regulations, as well as in the form of objections. One has a very complicated piece of legislation, and one comes with ever new demands for the municipalities without having to pay for it. There is no question of whether the money should be earmarked or not, so it is not what local politicians are concerned about; they are occupied with the detailed management that is taking place, and by the overly overly rigid statesmen who are increasingly intervening in local self-determination. Only in Hordaland – in my county – is there a project of more than 10 billion. kr, which is now waiting because the state of the county has intervened and stopped these. This, of course, makes it harder to recruit local politicians, but it is not the worst. The worst thing is, of course, that this goes beyond the population — the provision of services is getting worse, and the possibility of getting applications through, for example. in construction equipment, becomes heavy – it takes a very long time. This means that the well-being of the districts of Norway and of the municipalities is reduced. So my question to the municipal minister is, does the municipal minister intend to reintroduce the municipal right of self-determination?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e97	Fortunately, municipal self-government has been introduced a long time ago, and we even celebrate the anniversary of these days, so that the municipal minister is not reintroduced. But democracy must be maintained. The issue has to be on the agenda, and it has to be renewed as time changes change. That is why I have provided a large-scale report that is currently being processed, on the relationship between the State and the municipality. There is no doubt that over the years – and not only under this government, but over the years – there has been a development that has caused many municipalities to feel that there has been a tighter governance chain to it that it has grown up supervision and directorate that may be managing detail in a way that would have meant that it would go beyond what is legislating here in the hall had initially seen its way. Therefore, what the government has now done is that we have provided a big message to clarify the balances between national governance and the consequences for municipalities in future legislative work, in which we are to ensure greater involvement of the municipalities in such processes, where the municipalities are to participate in the discussion of individual rights, which is to give heavy leadership to the action space in the municipalities – an overall evaluation of the requirements of individual level and, not least, a more targeted and requested guidance, where the reporting rounds to be held by the municipalities are to enter into a holistic plan and not just be reporting for their reporting. I'm busy having a good dialogue between the state and the municipality. Both are politically important levels, which interact for the benefit of citizens. Local authorities must also have the capacity for action to have differences locally but to have equivalent services within their national framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e108	Once again, there are fine words from the municipal minister – without me seeing that this is being followed up in action in any way. When it comes to this big message, there's almost nothing concrete in it. One discusses problem settings, but one cannot confirm that one, for example. should have a administrative court to settle conflicts between the State and the Municipality, which the Progress Party has been called upon to settle several times. When it comes to the feedback we get, the numbers in KS surveys show that 94 pst. by the municipal plans, deposits or notices of deposits are met when the area part is revised and more than half of the municipalities have received deposits against regulatory plans, even if they are in accordance with the municipality's spatial plan. So the question is again – and then I'm not busy with the nice words: is it going to happen concretely in this area that will give local democracy a strengthening for years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e117	In my previous answer, I list at least five – perhaps six – actions to be followed up and which this room will discuss. There is now a big message here that gives Storting the opportunity to discuss just how one will strengthen the local self-government. I'm looking forward to the discussions that will be here. I think it's weird when you say that one doesn't follow up. The fact that so many contradictions are placed with the statesmen is about the lawmakers, that is to say the Storting, have put the leaders of the statesmen's work that they follow up. I found it difficult to criticise the statesmen for following up national policies. Many of those laws were also passed in good time before this government came in here. This is about wanting a national policy, including: soil protection and coastal zone planning. This government has dissolved and got a differentiated coastal zone planning, which the previous government has failed. So we're going in the right direction, we're going step by step to strengthen local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e126	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e129	One consequence of what the representative Mr. Hagesetter is taking up here is that there are too few dwellings built here in the country. KS produced a report that showed that 94 pst. by the municipalities that had revised their spatial plans, received deposits from superior bodies. Many of these admissions are based on political judgement — not on legality and other overarching societal considerations. This study shows some of the challenges that local authorities face when they want to introduce new spatial plans, challenges that delay and reduce access to new land. I hear what the Council of State says, that this is settled by the Storting, and that it will mean that the statesmen have to follow it up. But the result of this is the more expensive dwellings. My question then is: will the Council of State make sure that the Storting gets a case before the summer, so that one can change this hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e136	I have warned that on behalf of the government, I will present two big messages – one related to building policy and the other related to housing policy. The government is busy making sure that we have a good and safe place to live for everyone. It applies to those entering the owner's market and to those who are to be rented. The growth in housing prices is not just about the cost of development. It's also about having a pressure where there's been an investment object, as well as a property project, for the family. It is about the fact that there are great variations in the country. In Oslo we have a strong pressure on housing prices. In other cities there is not so much pressure, which the Financial Newspaper appeared a few days ago. The price formation is about both land, construction costs and the price pressure that is caused by the fact that in some parts of the country it is attractive to invest in housing, as well as to get their own home.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e147	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e150	The Storting message State and municipality – governance and interaction were given a long birth – or at least a long birth. It was announced in April last year that it would arrive soon before the holiday. Then came the day before the county of KS began. But when it came, it was converted from being an operational notice to being called a principle notification by the Council of State. KS is – to this extent – satisfied with the fact that a communication of principle has been presented, but asks for concrete action, as requested by the representative of Hagesets. I understood the council until she was open that the Storting could go into concrete action. But I don't think so until I see it – that the government party then has some room for action. Will the Central Party continue the struggle for local self-government, or have they given up the fight against the centralising forces in the Workers' Party and the SV, which have ensured that this message has no content?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e158	First, there is no message without content. Secondly, a principle message was announced, and that is what has been presented, the principle of state governance – and cooperation with the municipalities. For it is not just about government governance, it is about dialogue and cooperation, which must be built on mutual respect – both sides. I also think it's a lot to pick up on an even better collaboration. We have presented measures and legal work on justice and governance, and it will be followed up further. Then, of course, Stortinget will have a free debate and discuss what the Stortingt thinks about both the message and the way forward. I can assure the representative that the Central Party is still going to be a driver of the local space of action and self-government, which we have been in the whole party's history. It's important, if we're going to make the best use of society's resources, that there's local freedom to prioritise, because that's when we get the best priorities, best adapt people where they live, and 100 pst. by us living in a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e165	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e168	As magnification representatives, we have the joy of quite often travelling in municipalities, and it is amazing how short you should travel before you arrive at a municipality that is central party governed in this country – I have to say. At the same time, clear messages are also received, not least from the central party rapporteurs, about the imbalance between government governance and local self-government. So now I'm going to ask about two things, first and foremost: where does the Council of State think that there is the greatest imbalance between local self-government and state leaders – or overruns, to call it that? And point two: does she have any concrete proposal, as many rapporteurs ask, that some of the power be transferred from the county to the local elected body?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e175	When it comes to pointing out where the biggest imbalance is: what some municipalities are at least reporting to me is that a huge amount of resources for reporting that a person may not see the whole idea. So what we have notice, both that the reporting should be streamlined, and that if one strengthens the internal audit locally, the state's supervision could be reduced, is something that is strongly requested, and that most people take up. It is about the amount of resources seized on this type of work. When it comes to the role of the county council, I am busy that the county council is going to impose on the government and the government. The main responsibility then rests on Stortinget and the government to discuss how to lay them down. As you know, political governance is as much as possible at the hands of both my and the central party leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e182	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e185	In recent times, we have been able to see over and over again the major challenges facing businesses around the country to acquire the necessary skills. Many of these activities are actors in an international market where, through their strong environments of competence and their competent staff, they have just managed to take key positions globally. Access to knowledge-based staff is a crucial factor in ensuring Norway’s competitiveness. Ensuring access to relevant competences for public and private enterprises is a central task of the Higher Education Councils. The university and higher education sectors shall qualify the students in the disciplines they choose. However, there is an obvious right and obligation for the Council of State to actively contribute to the training of young people in the sector for the jobs that society needs, a right and obligation it seems that the Council of State has systematically failed to follow up. That is why we see, among other things: that there is now a huge shortage of engineers. The right has repeatedly highlighted the importance of political governance, targeted action and sufficient resources to correct the deficit in some disciplines, and we have repeatedly called for the level and objectives of the State Councils for higher education. So far we have not received any answer. So, after the red-greens have run the department for almost seven years, we now see the result: the competitive power is threatened when businesses do not have the necessary skills. When will the Council of State stop holding its protective hand over open-ended studies and places of study and actively direct the resources of studies and places of study to which the students are applying, and the competences of society are screaming for, such as: the training of engineers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e196	I gradually realized that this question was for me. I am a little surprised that the representative Harberg has not seen the newspaper releases in the last few days. For the good news for the one who's concerned that we're not training enough engineers, is that we're now actually at the top – in many decades – in terms of trained engineers. More than 6,000 fully trained engineers, both with three years of engineering training and with even higher education, have been graduated in 2011. These are the last numbers we've got, which are really amazing. There are record numbers, for never – in many years – have we had such large graduates. My comment on it has been that here we have a good starting point for building a better world and a better society, and I'm absolutely convinced that this continues like that, because real science is something we've invested in. Then the Right Council of State is still calling for the plan. I'm telling you about my plans, but it obviously doesn't mean anything to some representatives. Clearly, we have plans both to train engineers and to train other groups in society that we need. I want to mention here in particular the priorities that came to light when the government a few years ago, a few years in the future, established new places of study. Then we have given priority to three groups, including: engineers, who are important to society. The other two are teachers and nurses. We know that there is a need for that. There's a conscious plan of this, and we're asking our colleges to train people in these professions. So it has to be that the young also have to be allowed to choose for themselves what to become and what to study. We're trying to influence them to study real science, teaching and health, but here, too, there's a certain freedom for the young people themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e207	The response from the Council of State is predictable, and once again the Council of State responds to comparison with historical figures. From 2005 to now, the proportion of the total number of graduates has increased by 0.5 pst. - by 0,5 pst.Oh, my God! Governments do not relate to reality and reality. The need is huge. NITO says they need 7 000 new engineers, Nav says there is a need for 16 000 new engineers, and networks that have engineers as their main group have a thousand vacancies. There's none of this that's being solved by the Council of State. The record numbers are on the record. Will the Council of State now take clear steps to remove the gap — not to continue to increase by small numbers, but to remove the need to maintain competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e216	I record that the representative Harberg is not able to see the positive by actually having a higher number of graduates than we have in many decades, or at least in the last 10–15 years. This is such a joyous news about the development of the number of graduates engineers, that I think it's almost strange that you can't enjoy it, but you have to pick some concerns, which obviously right here have. What's important in the future is, of course, continuing to bet on engineering. The fact that you have a need for engineers can be calculated in different ways, and that you have a desire right at these times to have a lot of engineers in place, is a sign that we have a healthy and good economy. In other countries, engineers don't get any work at all, so here we have a situation where many people say they need engineers. We get to train engineers, teachers, nurses and everything else we need, because it's not just engineers we need. And of course we do that according to the current plans we have between the state and the individual educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e223	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e226	Governments are so right that more are being trained, but the need is increasing so much, much more and does not keep up with the slight increase we see in the number of engineers. But if we're going to get more engineers in the future, it's important to light up the real genius early. The right is concerned with several recruits for engineering training, and then measures that can inspire children and young people to make greater efforts in real science are crucial. Renewal of mathematics is important, but most importantly, top skilled real-time teachers, as we now know, will be very scarce in the years to come – not only in high school but also in high school. The right has long called for a massive investment in continuing education to close the gap in competence that we are now seeing opening up at the wall in the real world. Does the Council of State and the government really not see the need for a cap of teaching power to ensure the school's necessary real-life competence and lay the foundations for many more highly qualified engineering students in the future, when society in all sectors...? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e236	The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e239	The record figures I mentioned in my answer to the representative Harberg also show a strong increase in the number of graduates of Master's degrees in the real subjects at universities. That's joyous news. This is, among other things, teachers of the future in real science. All of our activity will help strengthen it. As the representative knows, we have a comprehensive real-life strategy – an early-stage initiative, with kindergarten, which involves investing in both science centres and in mathematics at school and getting women to apply for the real subjects. This is a very comprehensive strategy led by an advisory group, composed of many different organisations in society. It's an effort that's been going on for years, and now we're actually seeing good results. We see that there are more graduates, and we see that then the possibility of getting the same promise from the teachers that the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e246	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e249	Knowledge centres and Newton rooms are popular and help more and more children and young people discover how real science can be used in everyday life. Many teachers are taught how to make the real subjects more interesting in teaching. This helps to strengthen students' interest in and knowledge in real science, and it can provide good recruitment to real subjects later. Many students do not have access to either science centres or Newton rooms. In addition, there are many schools that have neither physics nor chemistry. The Council of State also points to the importance of science centres for irritating children’s and young people’s interest in the real world. This is in agreement with the Progress Party, and we are eager advocates for more White Centres and Newton Room. Will the Council of State ensure the creation of more such places?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e256	I fully share the view of the Advance Party on this. The government has so far contributed to the establishment of a number of science centres. They're a little bit different in structure, but they fill the same mission, that's to make sure that not least children can become familiar with real science: mathematics, physics and chemistry. Of course, it will be an important task for us in the future to facilitate that opportunity for several places in the country, but often it is based on a local initiative. We can contribute some grants, but a lot of capital, economics, must be raised locally. But we see the value of this, and we also see the value of it interacting between the science centres and the school, whether it's at kindergarten and school level or at higher education level. We're for, this is positive, and we're trying to do this in good forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e261	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e264	The undersigned has registered the increase, and that is good. But it is a tremendous need that the representative of Aspaker stressed. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, there are two things that need to be done to get future engineers to bite at the hook. One is that you have good bait. That means we have to have practically correct theory. There has been the entrance for many engineers to start with the practical issues and then end up solving the major challenges in society. But the second thing to get people on the hook is to fish in the right place. I ask myself if the effort that the Council of State has put up, is fishing in a bit of a wrong place, because the question is whether many more future engineers would have been found if one had dared to put more effort into fishing in the professional directions. It's designed for a Y-way, but you don't profile this in such a way that you get more people to bite at the hook and become the great new engineers we need. Do you now want to take the initiative to fish in the right place?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e273	It is always nice to discuss with a representative from Sørland about where the best fishing grounds are. I'm assuming the representative's got it all figured out. I also believe that we are fishing in the right places, also because we see that the Y-way solution in engineering is very successful. We may have called this out more and made it even more visible, but it gives a good opportunity for those who start out in higher education to continue and take an engineering course. I guess I'm the only government council that has a model agency. I run model business, where girls are models of real science. Young girls, young students and others go around the schools, both in upper secondary and upper secondary education, talking about the exciting occupations they have as real-time graduates. Many – both girls and boys – are busy making the world better, as I said in my very first post. What we're trying to get is that you're studying real science and, for example, what we're trying to do is you're doing real science. becoming an engineer can help make the world better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e282	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e285	We don't have as many fishing grounds in Akershus, but now it seems that the wolf is starting to get to Akershus. I agree with the reality description of the previous speaker from the opposition, but I note that the Council of State does not have the power to respond to how to meet future challenges. If the Council of State wants inspiration on how to find room for multiple study places funded by the State budget, I would like to recommend a closer look at the Left's alternative government budget. Within a responsible financial framework, we have accommodated 2 000 additional places of study in the current year, including: several places in the field of engineering training. However, what I want to challenge the Council of State on here today are scholarships in the field of technology. A group of experts has recently concluded that there is a need for significant growth in the number of scholarship positions funded by the State budget, particularly in the field of technology and real life. Will the Council of State support the Left in the need for an obligatory and long-term escalation plan in order to secure enough scholarship holders in these areas in the coming years? And does she agree that it's urgent to get such a plan in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e298	I know about fishing grounds in Akershus as well, so they exist there as well, and we're going to fish for engineers. The representative asks me a specific question. What's the situation, is that the number of scholarship holders has actually increased, even though there have not been earmarked scholarship positions on the state budget, because they have increased in other ways. The report we received recently tells us that we are reasonably well covered in scholarship positions in the vast majority of subjects, but not in technology and real science. This is important to me. If I fully agree with what is said in the Left's proposal, I am a little uncertain about it, but my plan is that there must be an effort here. Here we have to look at what kind of tools we can use to get the number of scholarships in real science. It's an important part of my overall plan, which, of course, I have for both this education and all education. We're going to train people who are going to be able to do important jobs in society, but we also have to take account of the young people's own choices. We must therefore be able to lure them both to take engineering and to move on and become e.g. fellows.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e308	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e311	It is almost a shame that the Minister of Fisheries is not here today. She had probably enjoyed well. My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. We have an interaction reform that now strikes the Kommune-Norway, and it does so with a slightly different force. But we see a development that is going to be a real challenge in many municipalities, namely all the ready-to-print patients from the hospitals who are going to find their place in the community health service and get treatment there. As the councils know, the municipalities have received 600 million. kr from the hospitals, who then lost this money. At the same time, we see that this is now a picture that seems to be very different from the municipality to the municipality. We have municipalities that have used up half their pot after two months, and we have municipalities that seem to be dealing with this well. We know that the state is a pretty good cash collector, and these municipalities can already say that they are going to have to cut in other areas to pay for patients who are ready to print. I then ask: What answer does the Council of State have to these municipalities? Does she agree with what the local government's Central Association says, that they expect this to be compensated if the municipalities have not received enough funds? Or is the Council of State prepared to say to those municipalities that can already say that they get a lot of extra costs, that they get to sail their own sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e320	There is no doubt that the cooperation reform will require the municipalities in a transitional phase before an experience has been gained to assess the level at which each municipality will live. It shall be paid from the first day of 1 January 2012. Good warning procedures should be put in place to allow municipalities time to surround themselves and accept the ready-to-print patients. And there's a sum of $4,000 in the payments that the municipalities have received. Five hundred and sixty million. kr that has been transferred to the municipalities is a higher rate than the current rate of the hospital. So we've said that because this is a directional reform, and it's a lot of new things to do, we have to follow up on how this turns out for the different municipalities. We also have an understanding of this with KS, while the municipalities of course have a separate responsibility to adapt their activities to the existing frameworks. It is also important to note that for some municipalities, as we initially saw, if we were to call it, there is also a separate compensation scheme, such as: Oslo is a good town. There is a great deal of offer here for those who are ready to print. We need a certain transitional period to be able to build up the local supply. I feel that we have good contact with KS, and that there is a good dialogue between the Ministry of Health and Welfare such as the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the KS as the municipalities' representative. This is the theme of the meetings we have evenly, and at least from our side there is a willingness to follow this carefully forward, in case adjustments are needed. I can't answer that today, if it's necessary, but we have to discuss it in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e329	It's always good when governments have a willingness to follow, it's an important statement in itself. But notice that the Minister of Municipal Affairs is meeting a rapporteur, who I have signed, who says that now the state is going to have x the number of thousands of dollars from the municipality, this is the money the state is going to collect – it won't allow mercy to go right – so maybe we'll get, because of good will or adjustments, a few dollars for compensation. But the rapporteur and the local government are now in the situation that they have to consider cutting off the provision of services for pupils, home services, cultural services, in order to meet the bills that the state is actually presenting. Does he have to pay them, or can he expect adjustments for the most difficult to reach municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e334	Prior to the introduction of this reform, there has been a good dialogue, but also, of course, actual calculations and stipulations of the necessary needs. That's what's behind the sum of 560 million. NOK and the additional compensation scheme of 305 million. kr that has been transferred. In this way, it is possible for the municipalities to cover the costs incurred by the municipalities themselves and to negotiate, which is the right level, because there was agreement between KS and the department that this was the level at which they should be placed. So far I don't see the basis for setting the alarm clocks. I think it's important that we now let the reform work, that we gather information, follow along, and then we get to take a foot in the ground when there's been some more time, and look at how this developer develops. But the signals we've received so far don't indicate that there's any reason to set the alarm clocks on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e339	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Hanne Thürmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e342	The interaction reform contains strong economic instruments, and money works. As a hospital doctor, I know that the data base on which the municipalities are ready to print is very deficient. Several municipalities therefore report that they have been given too little time to prepare large conversions, and in particular the municipalities that have used hospitals more than the average. These municipalities have to pay more in terms of ready-to- print patients, more in co-financing, and they need to build up larger municipal services. Last night, we were able to read about concerns from several municipalities in Hordaland who are unable to accept their ready-to-print patients and who have limited resources to build up adequate local services. Does the Council of State see that the implementation of the Interaction Reform may have come too quickly for some municipalities, and that such a major reform should have had a gradual escalation of the financial instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e349	The President makes it clear that this supplementary question lies in the border country between the Minister for Municipal Affairs and the Minister for Health, so it is really up to the Council of State whether or not she will answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e352	I can answer in general, but I don't want to go into the subject areas that other government councils are responsible for. But on a general basis, I can say that it is not new that municipalities are responsible for patients who are ready to print. It's had one since the right government introduced it early in the 21st century. The difference is that now we have transferred money, so that the municipalities should be able to accept those patients. When the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left did it, just enough with a few more days' time of thinking before one accepted the patients, but nevertheless, they should have a bid that time too, it did not follow one penny with. So I think we have done what we can to get a good professional basis and a good data base, which will enable the municipalities to accept those who are ready to print, and then to build up their own supply, as well as a stronger commitment to prevention, which I think is a very important part of this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e357	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e360	Some of us have registered that the Centre Party is willing to accept it in the government of the Temporary Directive, or the 'disposal directive', which it may be called in new Norwegian. However, sometimes I wonder why one is not willing to use the type of instruments in relation to important Norwegian reforms that have a significant impact on the municipal sector, such as: Interaction reform. It is now that the practice between health companies is very different in terms of who and when you print, and the practice in municipalities is different. But what we're looking at in Kommune-Norge is that the patients being printed are now worse than they were before, and the municipalities are less prepared and have less competence – or not enough competence – to receive these patients. This has been warned against for a long time, but despite the warnings, you push it through. The question to the Council of State is then: how far does it have to go before the Central Party sees that this is going wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e366	Again, the President would like to stress that the questions are at the intersection of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Municipal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e369	From that point of view, I should like to answer for the Central Party, and the Minister of Health and Health will have to answer for what is within her field of work. The centre party is in favour of the cooperation reform. The center party has been for what we called the 1 1⁄2 line service. When I entered the county council in 1995, I think it was a big theme in Sogn and Fjordane at the time – then it was the county council that was responsible – how we were supposed to stand up to it then called the 1 1⁄2 line service, which was a collaboration between the specialist services and the municipal health service for the benefit of the patient. A stronger commitment to prevention, more decentralisation of services, better treatment closer to where people live, is something the Center Party supports very strongly about. For this reason, it is all the more obvious to use this right in this case. On the contrary, we have been a driver for this. We are also a driving force for municipalities to do the job in a good way, working with the Minister of Health and Welfare and the rest of the government to make this reform a successful reform, and I believe it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e376	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e379	From 1 January, the municipalities received a charge for ready-to-write patients, and from 1 February they were required to enter into an agreement with the health care companies. Health companies have the professional takeover of municipalities in relation to the assessment of who are ready-to- print patients. This means that in the discussion on this very demanding topic, the state and health care companies are placed on all the means of power: the professional means of power, the economic resources and the legal powers. The opposition supported the introduction of payments for ready-to-print patients, but we would reverse the power relationship and give the municipalities the opportunity not to start paying until a voluntary agreement was reached. Why did the municipal minister not stand up for the municipalities and enabled them to have a real debate with the hospitals, but accepted that health companies and the state are in a very difficult situation for the municipality of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e386	I think that right here gives a slightly distorted picture of reality. This reform does not constitute an abuse of power or an overrun by the state. Some of the most important things that I'm told by municipalities out there are the good cooperation that one might build between municipalities and health care agencies. It will certainly vary in different parts of the country, but is there something that slips me when I now travel around the country, it's actually right that one gets this. One makes it work, one builds good dialogue and good cooperation, built on the system on which the Stortinge has based the reform. It is also the case that there is a dispute resolution body within the Cooperation Reform where the municipalities and the state, if they do not agree, have to take action. It should be to the pleasure of the Right, who has the office of the Administrative Court in a broader field, that at least this is an area in which we can try out such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e395	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e398	The interaction reform is very positive. At the same time, good intentions don't necessarily make it a good result. There is a huge reform that requires building up considerable competences in the different municipalities. For the time being, this is probably more marked by being a cost-sharing change than being a full interaction reform. With 429 different municipalities, and with the compensation given to municipalities based on historical figures, the interaction reform will necessarily be very different in each municipality. Will the Council of State ensure that each municipality is compensated for the additional costs it receives from the Cooperation Reform, or is it the individual municipality that is sitting here with the risk of how it turns out?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e407	When economic compensation models were created, they were taken from the individual municipalities and created models based on them. It is also important to stress that the model of the Cooperation Reform, the District Medical Centres and the decentralisation scheme underpinning them are the municipalities themselves with our initiators. A large number of places, small municipalities around the district, have seen that this is a way to provide better services to citizens and to interact with health professionals to build it up. But, of course, there may be variations between municipalities, and that is precisely why the Minister of Health and Health has now said that one will follow the developments to see how the outcome is linked to the economic one. Municipalities are to be taken care of and are to be paid the costs they have, but they also have an independent responsibility to address the local situation and to build these services as efficiently, economically and efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e418	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e421	My question goes to the State Council of Aasland. The party welcomes the fact that data from the Databank on right-wing education show that several students completed three-year engineering education last year. However, the progressing party will point out that there is only a small step in the right direction. The lack of engineering is enormous both in the private and public sectors and has become a barrier to development and value creation in view of the fact that the need for 16 000 new engineers has been reported at the beginning of this year. The government has established 12,000 new study places in the last six years. This is produced as a strong commitment and action force. 11,000 of the 12,000 study places are so-called cheap, easy to set up, and do not entail increased investment costs in the form of technology buildings. The lack of government support means that the UH sector has to reject a large number of qualified applicants each year for the engineering studies. Nor does the initiative meet the needs of the labour market. The progress party therefore believes that the investment in engineering training is far too weak. The institutions providing the education lack technology building and therefore cannot take in more students. An example of this is in Rogaland, where both business and municipalities are almost screaming for engineers. The University of Stavanger has 500 qualified applicants for only 50 places. So lack of space makes it completely impossible to input more. Still, we hear the Council of State say that it is up to the institutions themselves to assess the type of education they want to offer. But it just doesn't matter as long as you don't have the guts to offer these studies. Will the Council of State, in its further strategy for engineering training, ensure that much more is invested in the development of technology buildings at the educational institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e434	I have to admit that I think this main question reminds me suspiciously of the previous main question that was asked to me. But we can continue the discussion about the lack of engineering. It's a great pleasure to me, because this is an area where the government really rates. It's both about bets on barley and about betting that we get more students to study the real subjects. I have explained in previous articles here in this spontaneous Question Time the strategy we have for real science in general – how to get more people to choose just real science and engineering. In any budget, of course, it will be an important objective for me both to get new places of study for the areas where we need labour and to get the necessary building for this. But then there's clearly something the representative doesn't like, and it's that I also point out that there's actually quite a lot of autonomy at individual universities and colleges. They have the ability to prioritize themselves. When we tell them to bring up engineering students, for example, they have to do it, and we've done it pretty much in the last few years. But it is also up to them to give priority to what they have of educational provision. Then they have to prioritize something else, and it's always hard. I can understand the dilemma that many universities and colleges are in then, because this is also a priority issue for the big community. Yes, we need engineers – I characterized it in a previous post as a good sign of Norwegian economy – but we also need teachers, we need nurses, and we need a lot of other professional groups that we also need to facilitate and discuss. That's why we're always talking about how to give the best possible priority. But the engineering and real-life sciences we actually have a good strategy for, and we have important plans both in terms of construction and in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e444	Now, once again, the lack of engineering is precarious and a plug in the system. The research team also responds to the fact that the State sometimes expresses that in many cases there is not a lack of study places for engineering but a lack of qualified applicants. This is probably true in a few of the study sites, but in the case of Bergen, Trondheim, Ås and Stavanger, there's a big visit to the study. One thing is that they have to say no to applicants because of lack of space since the government will not provide technology building, another factor is that many professionals with professional letters want to take the engineering profession. However, it presupposes that they must take advance steps to qualify. This course must cover the entire cost. This excludes many — who could become good engineers — from education. Will the Council of State take the initiative to finance state advances in engineering studies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e451	There are many important divisions of labour between central and individual educational institutions — government and government. Right here we are facing a matter that concerns many people who believe that there is a great need for engineers. I approve it and acknowledge that it may be right. But I know very well that we also need other occupational groups, for example. teachers and pre-school teachers. That is why it is my job to stimulate the teaching places to the best possible – within the limits of their financial resources – both to give priority and to facilitate the provision of skilled labour. So it's also the case in terms of the engineering shortage in particular, that it's allowed to pick up labour from abroad. There are many people who do not have jobs in their own country who come to Norway and want to participate in and contribute to the construction of our society. I also think we should take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e456	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e459	Just to establish once and for all: it doesn't just help to know where the fishing ground is, one has to have the means to get the fish up and a market to take it away. We know a little bit about that, so we can take the discussion about fishing afterwards. The background to what we're dealing with engineering education is that although the government claims that there have never been as many graduates as they are now, neither has it ever been – related to the demand of business, municipalities, county councils and the state – been so big. Nearly everyone involved in this type of activity needs engineers today. The big question is, what will the government do to reduce that gap? It's not enough, as the Council of State says, that you've looked at the matter, and that we've never trained more than now. We actually have to have more! My question to the Council of State is related to the failure of the engineering study, because it is very big: Do you want to look at precisely those criteria, so that of the applicants who enter the study, a larger number than at present are completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e468	Whatever is said here, I think we have good tools. We know where the good places to fish for both engineers and other professionals are, and we have the means to do so. The figures published a few days ago show that we have the highest number of fully trained engineers between 10 and 15 years. So this is going the right way, and there's reason to enjoy it. But it is clear that the demand for engineers is probably somewhat more cyclical than the demand for e.g. teachers and nurses. That's why we train engineers, regardless of that. We have to educate, and we have to educate more. But it's not that many years since many received final packages in e.g. The oil industry -- you didn't have a job for them. Now the situation is completely different. That's why I'm saying that this area, where the demand for engineers is very high, is a cyclical area. We know that we need engineers now, but we also know that it takes at least three years to educate them. That's why we're training a lot of engineers now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e473	Svein Harberg – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e476	Governments repeatedly invite to celebrate the increase in the number of graduates. Yes, they've increased by 500 from 2005 to 2011. The need, according to Nav, is 16 000. It'll be a limited celebration from my side! The point is that engineering training has a great deal of qualified applicants, but they are not admitted, because there is no room for them – there is no resources for them. What is the concrete question to the Council of State is then — she says she has the task of stimulating: Will the Council of State stimulate by prioritising the development of engineering training and increasing the number of study places in engineering training in the next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e485	The representative knows very well that the Council of State cannot stand here and do budgetary negotiations. This is an important issue in budgetary negotiations and in the budgetary process of the government, both in terms of material structure and in terms of study places. But to follow up a little on the previous question: in our strategy, we have added to an increase in the number of engineers – we see that we have 6,000 new graduates; the number has not been so high since 1995. We also see the need to combat non-response. So the fact that we're now educating a lot of people is very good, but we still have a huge lack of engineering training. It is also about following up the individual student in the best possible way, which is primarily the responsibility of the university, but for which we also see the need to motivate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e492	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e495	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. When Trond Giske used the cultural institutions to promote his political programme The Year of Man, many thought it was a joke – or at least there was nothing going on. Since then, you've realized that it wasn't that simple. This year, cultural institutions were required to incorporate the 200th anniversary into their programmes in 2014. The reactions have not been absent, it's from Sogn and Fjordane Theatre or from NTO, which is the Norwegian Theatre and Orchestra Association. The background is, of course, that the government has systematically, over time, incorporated attitude programmes into the letters of allocation, i.e. in the instructions given to the cultural institutions. It is about children and young people, it is about equality, and it is especially about what the government calls diversity, which in this context is another expression of integration. A big message that we are now dealing with in Stortinget, about culture, inclusion and participation, reinforces the governance dialogue. I expect that means that the pressure on cultural institutions will be increased, and cultural institutions will have to be more actively used to promote their own policies, that is, to use cultural life as an instrument for the government's flagging in and separately price-worthy matters – but that is, however, the government's political programme. My question to the Minister of Culture is, Is this a misguided development? So, does the Minister for Culture realize that there are more such instructions about political leadership?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e508	First, I have to be allowed to thank the representative for asking me questions in this questionnaire. The last time I stood on this pulpit, I was clubbed by the Grand President because I interrupted a representative of the Right. But I was so happy when I got the question, that I sent a slang kiss in the hall, and I noticed that it was not the club. My old social teacher is sitting in the gallery today with the social education class from Jessheim high school, so I'm very happy to have the opportunity to answer this question. So the question of cooperation between the cultural institutions and the Ministry of Culture. This big message, which we have ample opportunity to discuss in this Chamber – because it is on the agenda, and it has been through consultations in the Committee – has been made on the basis of a report by a group led by Liv Hege Skagestad. She had several representatives from cultural life in this group and was in dialogue with a lot of cultural institutions – with the Opera, with the National Museum, with other actors – to find out: How can we look at the diversity strategies of cultural life? Why is it that the commercial part of cultural life has been better to bring up many talents in the commercial television channels and in the pop industry than what we see the traditional cultural institutions are? Then we also took inspiration from what has happened in the United Kingdom in recent years called Audience Development. Then it is important for me to stress that I will never in any way dictate what kind of artistic choices the institutions make. On the contrary, I have been engaged throughout my period as Minister of Culture to increase the distance between political decisions and the artistic priorities taken by the institutions and taken by the Council of Culture. But I believe that this is at the heart of what is a cultural institution's mission, that of helping to give an offer to the whole community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e518	I thank the Council of State for the slang kiss, but perhaps not to the same extent for the answer. If the Council of State takes the time to read the reporting form to cultural institutions, it will see that strategies for programme development – or for ‘programming’, which is an expression that has been used, are to be developed. How free you are as an artistic leader to develop a program and strategies for the program, i.e. long-term, when you're looking at the table, you need to take care of children and young people, equality, inclusion, as well as all the other more formal things? Then it's no longer about having an open discussion in the public room about themes such as inclusion. There is a situation where cultural institutions are actually managed and cultural institutions are used as an instrument of government policy. It's something other than what the government says in public debates, where you point out that it's a distance, and it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e525	Cultural diversity strategies are not about integration. So it's about getting the critical voices out of the whole population. When we built the National Theatre, there were our own work performances there. Fortunately, it's no longer like that. Now the National Theatre has an offer for the whole population. But this should worry both the representative Thommess and me: if you take a trip to a children's show at the National Theatre, you can see that one third of Oslo's children are never among the audience. I don't think I'm going to say in any way that now the National Theatre has to set it up and that show, but it's a challenge that there are children who have parents with education and high income, who are looking for the cultural institutions. This, I believe, is a major social issue, because poverty in our time is less about butter on the bread roll or about warm enough clothes. It's about the kids who don't participate in cultural activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e532	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Torbjørn Røe Isaksen
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e535	I can enjoy that she will have another chance to actually answer the question. The letter of assignment to Sogn and Fjordane Teater states that ‘it is expected’ to incorporate the 1814 anniversary as part of the performance, i.e. in the artistic programme. In Report. Art. No. 10 for 2011–2012, it also says, in black and white, that you want to incorporate objectives of inclusion and diversity in the artistic programme. As an artistic leader on a completely free basis, are you going to decide what kind of performance you're going to set up, and what the contents of them are going to be? Or should it be a pressure, directly or indirectly, from the department and from the political leadership of the department? The question to the Council of State becomes plain: When it says ‘it is expected’, does the Council of State understand that it is perceived as a pressure from many institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e544	I would like to stress once again that all cultural institutions in Norway have full artistic freedom. But that the cultural institutions in Norway are going to play a role in the anniversary of the Constitution, whether it be museums or others, I think is quite natural and a social task that our cultural institutions have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e549	Ib Thomsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e552	As usual, the Council of State does not go on its own and takes a little self-criticism. As usual, the Council of State does not entirely answer the question. What she calls cooperation, culture feels like governance. When culture deals with a problem that artistic freedom is deprived of it, I think we should take it seriously. Not many countries have such detailed management as the Council of State provides. North Korea is probably the country we know, which is about to govern culture. Critical voices and critical voices should be heard. We should get rid of closed decisions. Who dares criticize the department, who dares criticize the Cultural Council when you will later send an application there? You build a fear culture that you should do something with. We have to get an openness around this. What will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e563	I believe that the largest culture of fear that exists in Norwegian cultural life is that the Progress Party will gain power in Norwegian cultural policy. I guess there's no party here that's asked me to go in so directly, whether it's in the NRK, in other cultural organisations, or in the Order of the Council of Culture, and govern it. So here's the Progress Party a little principal. What we're doing in this area is exactly what they've done in the United Kingdom, that's to look at public development, so that cultural institutions can reach new groups. There is no other governance of the cultural institutions that we put up in this big message – which we are given a thorough opportunity to discuss later in this room – than what they have done in the United Kingdom, their policies, in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e570	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e573	Now we have heard the Minister of Culture comment on what cultural life, the supposedly free cultural life, fears the most, and we have also heard the Minister of Culture say that we want critical voices from cultural life – even the critical voices to be stimulated in particular. Now it is the case that the Culture Committee has held a hearing on this big-mouth communication. Then the Norwegian theater and orchestra association set up. They represent the major institutions around the country, and they say the following to the Committee: ‘These are proposals to which the NTO is fundamentally critical and which we believe interfere with the artistic freedom of the institutions in a way that violates the principle of arm’s length distance in Norwegian cultural policy, such as this principle. are governed by the Culture Act.’;» The question is, what is it that NTO has misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e585	We have a very good cooperation with NTO, but it's not that I agree with what the Norwegian Theatre and Orchestra Association means in every question. For example, in the question of whether the orchestras should have a responsibility to play works by Norwegian composers, we have had different assessments. I don't want to have a set framework for how many works of contemporary composers or Norwegian composers that the orchestras are going to play, but I think they have a social responsibility, just as our theaters do. I am concerned that we should have good dialogue with the cultural institutions. This big message has been made on the basis of a report that has been established after dialogues with our cultural institutions. It doesn't mean that I'm involved in the artistic decisions, but I want our cultural institutions to play an important role in society, to play a role in the 2014 anniversary, and also to have a responsibility for regional distribution and other issues that are important in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e593	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e596	Poverty among children was something this government was going to remove with a pen stroke. It's been six years. So the Council of State has been the Minister of Children in the past, without anything happening. But I'm going to stick to culture, which is the Department of this Council of State. The director of the Theatre at Sogn and Fjordane Theatre, Terje Lyngstad, tells us how there are increasingly strong leaders from the Ministry of Culture on what the theatre should prioritise when setting next year's repertoire, and an underlying threat of minor appropriations if this is not followed. What Lyngstad refers to as the ‘Cultural Policy’ is a description that many people in the cultural sector are familiar with. One of the Council's political advisers says on 1 March that since public appropriations have increased, it is natural to have clear leadership. For the Left, it is obvious that granting authorities will facilitate a living and free cultural sector, but not govern it. Freedom must be the support. I would therefore challenge the Council of State to clarify whether it is the government's view that the state should facilitate a free cultural sector, or whether it is in the sense that the Council of State believes that the cultural sector should be primarily a tool for the interests of the State. I've been told that I can't call that kind of state action communist, but is it perhaps this that's social-democratic?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e607	Of course, every cultural institution in Norway has full artistic freedom. But I think the introduction to this question is very interesting, because the representative is talking about poverty. In the past, poverty was that you didn't have enough clothes and that you were hungry. Today, poverty is about some children being able to afford to participate in the cultural arena, while other children do not. So cultural life has become a much more important meeting place, creating differences in our society. That's why I think it's more important than ever that we view cultural life as an important arena, where children and young people from different social layers and from different cultural backgrounds can meet, and I think that our cultural life is fully capable of looking at. That doesn't mean I'm going to dictate in any way what to play, or what to show, in order for them to have this societal task, I think it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e614	The oral question procedure is thus changed, and we move on to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e626	There will be one change in the set list of questions, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment is proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 7, from the representative Borghild Tende to the Minister of Labour, will be raised by the representative Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e639	‘A growing number of young people aged 18–26 have problems paying credit card debts. As a result, they are registered with payment notes and may end up with collection claims. In addition to being able to end up in debt traps, this can be a serious problem for young people when they later raise loans. Will the Council of State encourage education in private accounts and economics at secondary and secondary level, so that young people are better informed about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e651	It is true, as the representative says, that payment problems have increased from 2009 to 2011, but it is not primarily among the youngest increases – it is in the 30–39 age group that we see, for example, that. payment problems are overrepresented. So it's about talking exactly and true about the younger ones. The theme of the private economy is important for everyone to master. The school has a joint responsibility to disseminate knowledge about this, and the private economy is therefore the theme of the curriculum in mathematics, both after the 10th stage and after the 1st stage of higher education. In higher education, it is not just a competence objective but a specific main area of practical mathematics. In the social field, too, the private economy has competence objectives. I therefore consider that the subject of the private economy is reasonably well covered in the curriculum of the Knowledge Lift. The implementation of the skills objectives is a responsibility for the school owners and the local schools. I trust that the schools will follow up and provide good training in the goals of competence in the curricula, which have the status of regulation. Not least, I'm sure this is happening in mathematics, which is a centralized degree subject. This one has a strong function as director of the training provided. The representative Bente Thorsen asks me to encourage the schools to teach private finance. Of course, in addition to the content of the curriculum, I would like to make a strong call for this, because it is vital that young people bring with them practical knowledge that they need in all areas of life. The Directorate of Education has developed guidance for the schools in the subject areas of the Science Charter, and the guidance in mathematics includes, among other things, the following: detailed instructional arrangements. One of these approaches concerns aspects of the private and public economy relating to the competence objectives of higher education. The National Center for Mathematics in Education also has resources on its home page on private finance, which I strongly encourage to use. It's important for me to make the training in mathematics as practical and relevant as possible. Taking as a starting point e.g. The private economy is a very good way to make the training relevant for the students and as a follow-up to the Message. St. 22 for 2010–2012, Motivation – Mestring – Possibilities, as the Stortinget dealt with in January this year, we will launch a separate calculation effort at the youth level. One of the objectives of this is to make mathematics more practical and relevant, and then training in the private economy is an important and motivating way to take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e666	I thank you for your answer. I think it was a very good answer, but I still have to make it clear that it is registered against 28,000 young people with a payment claim. This is an increase of 4000 from the previous year and shows that young people have problems with debt servicing that they have created. This is between the ages of 18 and 26, so we have a challenge in that age group. But there are also many adults who have challenges to have an overview of their own private economy. Personal economy is public knowledge and should be in school to a greater extent than it is today, and I interpret the Council of State so that it is fully possible to use a little more, both for private budgeting, accounting and such necessary things. But my question is, how will the Council of State encourage this to be more practiced in school, in addition to a plan, as she said?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e673	Now, I've just realized that this is part of the skills objectives both in high school and in high school, that there are guidance materials that you can use to meet the skills objectives we have, and that a more practical and relevant mathematics education in high school can just be based on a private economy. It is clear that this is also about having a challenge for poor math skills in general, for example. that young people must be able to assess how expensive a consumer loan is, how much they actually have to repay. A certain percentage line is required to be able to assess it. So it's an emphasis on how important it is to have better math skills in the population when perhaps some fall for the temptation of, for example, to raise a consumer loan without understanding what they are doing. In addition, it's, in general, so the consumption pressure is obviously behind here, and it's not primarily about math skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e680	Again I feel that we are on a wavelength and agree with this matter. I also see in the decision that upper secondary education should be further organised, that this is a golden opportunity to really put this into practice and thus provide students with a better basis for economic understanding. But I also know that it's actually not so unusual that sometimes, when it's something she really believes, the department sends out a letter with a wish for how important she thinks some things are. Then I wonder if the state council will inform Skole-Norge – e.g. through a letter — on how important she thinks this is, also in the light of the practical correction of upper secondary school subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e687	We are now working on an implementation strategy related to the youth stage so that the good plans to which the Stortinget has joined are actually going to come true. Part of it's about how to improve and strengthen mathematics education. I'm taking with me what the representative Thorsen has in terms of how we're actually going to develop it. I believe that what is primarily important to teachers is not letters and invitations from me, but something that is easy to take and use, and that relates to the competences that are governing. I think that with that approach and implementation strategy where we're committed to achieving all of the secondary schools over a five-year period, we can manage to achieve the goals that the representative here is committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e698	‘The establishment of a climate fund for industry financed by the CO2 tax on the base is one of the issues notified by the government that one will decide in the climate notification. Such a fund assumes either a change in the policy of action or that the income from the CO2 tax is deducted from the cash flow to the State pension fund abroad. The latter will release significant sums of climate action in industry, but at the same time will mean that the levy will no longer be deductible in the petroleum tax system. What is the position of the Council of State on the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e711	The oil business has long had a strict emission regime for CO2. The flaring of gas has always been strictly regulated by resource considerations, but this regulation has also had important effects on greenhouse gas emissions. As early as 1991, a CO2 tax was introduced for the oil industry, and in 2008 the oil industry was included in the quota system. The oil business in Norway has thus already implemented many measures and CO2 emissions are low compared to other so-called petroleum provinces. According to the State Pension Fund Act, the CO2 tax from the oil business is part of the country’s net cash flow from the oil business. The cash flow is transferred to the State pension fund abroad in its entirety. It would be contrary to this law to bring the CO2 tax from the oil business into a fund other than the SPU. Therefore, if these funds are to be transferred to a fund other than the State pension fund abroad, the law needs to be amended. The funds of the State pension fund may only be used for a financial transfer to the State budget following a decision in the Stortinget. In addition, the Stortinget takes a decision on the measures to be taken in the context of a general budgetary framework for the State budget. Consequently, the allocation of climate action may be assessed against other budgetary objectives. The right to deduct from taxes on the cost of CO2 taxes and oil-related allowances is not determined by the State Pension Fund Act. The right to deduct is laid down in the Tax Act and the Oil Tax Act. The CO2 tax is a deductible expense that reduces taxable income for all industrial activities. The right to deduct is thus no special rule for the taxation of oil. With regard to the more concrete issues of government climate policy, there is a communication to the Stortinge during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e745	Thanks for the answer and for what the Council of State said about the legal basis for the policy as we conduct it today. But the Council of State has previously blackened the Christian People's Party in a budget round that yes, they are deductible, these charges we are now talking about, this CO2 tax. But if we wanted to change this – also wrote the Council of State – this would go beyond future generations in terms of the incomes of the state. For the Christian People's Party, this is perhaps a little bit on the side of the question we asked, because it's about getting action in this sector to reduce emissions, and so we know that a climate fund can be an important tool to reduce it. Is there a thought shared by the Council of State that a climate fund can be an instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e757	As I said in my answer, the oil industry has contributed, among other things. through the CO2 tax and what we did in 1991. I think we can quickly agree that it is important that all sectors contribute to reducing CO2 emissions in Norway, just as we should also contribute to getting good agreements internationally in order to achieve binding climate change reductions. The Minister of Finance is not a fundamental opponent of funds, for saying so, but a very strong supporter of the fact that actions – whether towards industry or other actors in society – are funded in a way that enables one to prioritise between different objectives in the budget. If one believes that it is developing e.g. climate technology is an important objective, it is my view that it should also be set against other budget priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e770	Yes, the petroleum sector and the Norwegian industry have taken many measures, but more is needed. We're now talking about the quota sector, in both of these sectors. But as the Christian People's Party sees it, it is by extra measures in this sector that we will make Norwegian industry more competitive. We'll be able to keep jobs, we'll make this more forward-looking. There is exciting reading in Today's Business today, where the Danish Minister for Climate and Environment says that he would rather invest in climate action at home than in China to make Danish jobs more robust. An old slogan on which the Workers' Party has gone to elections is 'All shall join' – all the people at work. It is probably an objective that remains for the Minister of Finance, I hope, to secure jobs by making them more green, more robust and more forward-looking through such an action fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e777	I fully share the views of the representative – that Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry have a future in what can be called green production. There are many reasons why I mean it. On the one hand, it is a very advanced industry – not least the industry that is linked to the oil industry – which is one of the foremost in the world, but at a very high technological level. I am quite convinced that that industry could become a spearhead and a driving force in, for example. develop renewable energy technologies and develop environmental technologies in the future. At the same time, I am concerned that we should do our job at home in Norway in terms of climate change emissions, but I think it is also important to contribute to getting good international agreements in place, that we get good funding for international climate agreements, so that we can jointly reduce CO2 emissions, because it is an important global task. We'll get back to it in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e789	‘Several parties want to set up a climate fund that earmarks the CO2 tax from Norwegian soil for climate action in industry. Today the CO2 tax goes into the oil fund, and a climate fund with respect to the rule of action will thus only be able to invest approximately. 4 pst. the capital of the climate fund in industrial actions. Is it possible to set up a climate fund to meet the desire of the bulk of population to use the oil industry to finance continental industrial and environmental measures and, if so, how?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e802	First, I want to refer to the answer I just gave to the representative who had question 2 – the representative Hemdal. Then I'll say the following in addition to that: As regards the CO2 tax from the oil business, it is part of the country's net cash flow from the oil business. It is transferred in its entirety to the state pension fund abroad, and as I also said in the previous answer, it would be contrary to the law if it were to be introduced into a fund other than the oil fund. The State Pension Fund Act also states that the funds that can only be used for a financial transfer to the State budget following a decision in the Stortinget. The size of the budget takes into account the nature of the measures to be provided for within an overall budgetary framework such as the State budget, and in this context – and this is what the Stortinget already does today – it may be that money is allocated to, for example, the budget. key climate action. However, the point is that appropriations for climate action must be assessed against other budgetary issues. As far as climate policy is concerned, I once again show that the Stortinget will be presented with a communication on climate policy during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e814	Thank you. I actually got the answer I expected, because this was a technical review of how the rule of action is. After all, it is good to confirm that many of the promises that SV in particular has made in the field of climate policy are not feasible because one has an action rule that stops it. But this is also a little bit about will, because if you want to, it's possible to do it. After all, the government spends a lot of oil money on the outside of the rule of action to buy shares on Oslo Stock Exchange and to raise equity to state companies or to allow Petoro to make investments on a Norwegian base without having the money within the oil fund first. Similarly, a few years ago, the government chose to set up a NOx fund. Before the fund was set up, the oil industry paid the NOx tax to the state, while one today does not pay the fee, but voluntarily pays the money into this fund. This represents approximately 400 million. kr per year. So in the NOx fund, an action rule is bypassing. Is it possible to circumvent the action rule in relation to a climate fund, with the same background as in the NOx fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e835	I, the undersigned and the representative of Solvik-Olsen, have had many rounds of discussions on the rule of action and on whether to circumvent the rule of action in different ways – whether it is one or the other fund or one or the other type of funding. I haven't really changed my mind about that question of being creative in order to circumvent the rule of action. My view is that if there is a willingness to give priority to key climate action, if there is a willingness to give priority to key climate action for industry, it is fully possible to achieve it through the ordinary budgetary appropriations. It's a much more honest and open matter, because then you have to make a choice between different purposes in the state budget. Climate action is likely to have such a high priority that it will be relatively far ahead in that queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e842	I just want to point out that the government itself has chosen to circumvent and erode the rule of action by establishing the NOx fund in order to remove oil money from the cash flow into the oil fund and into the Norwegian economy, but not to prioritise it in the state budget. So one increases the oil money usage by 400 million. kr a year even if you don't want to talk about it like that. But I'm going to leave the bad conscience for the government. I'd rather challenge in another area. The fact that one of the oil-adjusted budgets deducts revenue and expenditure from the oil business would mean, for example: could it be that a climate fund should at least be earmarked for CO2 off-shore action, i.e. on the base? Because then the money is not going into the state budget. Then there's money turning in the door, just as Petoro's income turns in the door when they're going to invest again. Would a technical approach be able to earmark the CO2 tax for measures on the base without breaking the rule of action? I'm not saying the government has to support it, but could someone do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e858	I choose to use this answer to say a few words about the NOx fund to contribute to a general information about it. In the discussion we have about climate funds, there are some who will finance it by increasing the CO2 tax on the socket, for example. That's the view of the environmental movement. Others want to use today's CO2 tax on the base, that's the industry. Both cases differ quite significantly from the way in which the NOx fund is set up. The NOx fund is not financed by the NOx tax, but from payments to the fund from companies that have entered into a NOx contract and thus avoids the NOx tax. That's the one difference. The second important difference is that the NOx tax is imposed on oil, maritime, fisheries and industry on land – all contribute in principle, but at different rates. In the case of climate funds, the idea seems to be that land-based industry will not pay anything, but that everything will be financed from the base. – So there are some important differences here, which it is important to be aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e895	«One of the largest projects of the State Road Administration is the modernisation of the E39 Coastal Highway Kristiansand-Trondheim. The target is reduced transport time. Opportunities are good and national impact great. One of several unexplained trasé choices is in Hordaland, where the choice is between the inner and the middle lines. Midline is based on floating bridge. On 24 February 2012, detailed calculations were presented on two different flowbridge solutions. Both have a price of 5 billion. kr, half of the amount calculated by the State Road Service. Will this investigation be used in further work on the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e902	A draft selection procedure for E39 Aksdal-Bergen has been carried out. The distribution has been sent to hearing and external quality assurance, KS1. The preview and quality assurance have not yet been completed. Following the recommendation in the concept selection process, we are left with two current concepts: the middle line via Tysnes/Reksteren and the inner line through Fusa. There are uncertainties both in technology and in costs for partly border-breaking bridge and tunnel solutions. In the concept selection process, it was therefore recommended to evaluate the middle and inner concept more closely when we have gained more knowledge. The state Roads Administration is running a project on the Free E39, focusing on possible technological solutions and societal impacts. This applies, inter alia, to: the crossing of the Bear fjord. In the summer of 2012, the Swedish Road Administration will present up-to-date knowledge of costs and technology for both the middle and the internal lines of the E39 Aksdal–Bergen. In parallel with the work of the Swedish Road Administration, the business community at Stord has asked two consultants to assess the flow-brow solutions for crossing the Björnfjord. This work will also be used in further work on matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e913	It's reassuring to hear. I assume that the right solution for the ferry-free E39 in Hordaland, the floating bridge, is not subject to political pricing from the State Road Administration. They have a price estimate in the concept committee investigation, the KVU, which is not just 10 billion. kr, as I mentioned in my original question, but it's actually closer to 16 billion. kr. So it's a dramatically different reality and a different cost estimate than what's now coming from the industry, consultants and companies in the oil industry on the supplier's side, who have calculated in detail that such solutions can be used and what they actually cost. I would like to make sure that the Council of State reaffirms and also actively follows up that this report, which has come from key actors who can do this, is really being used in the work on the final solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e918	I can confirm once that the work that is now being done by these two consultants will be used in the further work on the matter. So I firmly believe that in the summer of 2012, we are promised a more detailed update from the State Road Service, and then we have more knowledge. I'm very busy getting in place, as far as it's possible, a free E39. So this is another thing I'm going to follow closely up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e925	It is both reassuring and reassuring. I perceive that this is an open answer, and an answer as a citizen that the important work done here, which changes claims about unknown technology and huge costs to actual knowledge and low costs, is being used further. The draft plan for the new NTP points to unexplained trajectory choices. In previous rounds of questions in Stortinget, the Council of State has opened up the possibility of finalising the electoral process when the government’s own proposal for a new NTP comes. I hope that this investigation strengthens the opportunity to do so. It's my one follow-up question. The second is to point out that this report also has transfer effects to the two neighbouring states. Both Rogaland and Sogn and Fjordane are on fjord crossings. Here's the data base for moving forward in the two states as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e932	The first question trolled the NTP and the spring of 2013. I think it is very important that we clarify this matter as far as possible in the national transport plan. This is also why this concept selection has been ordered and delivered and has also now been sent to hearing and quality assurance. So it's like when a guy makes reports that relate to a distance, this is going to be transfer value, but I don't know this report in detail at this point, because it's too short since he got to it. But he's going to be used for work, and so we're also going to look at the transfer value of the report for other projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e941	I would like to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘The Health Moor and Romesdal Board has chosen to maintain its decision to shut down the Nevrohome Rehabilitation Centre, which is the only multi-disciplinary offer in the region for MS patients and others with chronic neurological diseases, to save 10 million. kr. This is now being met with very strong reactions as the new supply under the direction of the health company will have fewer places and will need to be restarted. Will the Council of State, as the Chief Health Officer of the country, engage in this matter so that the offer can be maintained for these patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e950	All patients should receive the services they need, both in the specialist health service and in the municipality. It also applies to people with chronic neurological diseases such as multiple sclerosis. According to Health Mid-Norway RHF, it is not correct that the Nevro Home Rehabilitation Centre is the only multi-disciplinary offer in the region for MS patients and others with chronic neurological diseases. They state that more decentralised services are now to be established for patients with neurological disease. The new offer will be established at the hospitals in Ålesund and Molde. It shall include both beds and outpatient rehabilitation. Adding the offer to hospitals will improve access to more specialities and medical services than today. Provision for this patient group will also be made by Aure Rehabilitation Centre and Mork Rehabilitation Centre. A joint admission team shall also be established in the healthcare establishment's rehabilitation service. In addition, an outpatient offer is planned at Kristiansund Hospital, starting during the last half of 2012. Health Mid-Norway informs us that the competence developed at the Nevro home will be transferred to the new units. A plan shall be drawn up for the enhancement of competence. Buildings should be adapted so that patients coming from the Nevro home get exclusive and good treatment and training space. The offers of Ålesund Hospital and Molde Hospital and the new intake team shall be evaluated. User representatives shall also participate in that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e961	I think it is very alarming that the only people that the Council of State has heard here are those who have decided to close the offer, namely Health Moors and Romesdal. It appears that the Council of State does not have sufficient information in this matter, on the offer to be made. You have to replace 14 beds with four beds in Ålesund and four beds in Molde, i.e. eight bed places. In the case of Mork Rehabilitation Centres, there is essentially a well-organised site for stroke patients and very little associated with MS patients. The outpatient treatment department has just been linked to MS patients. The patients who use it are very skeptical and very afraid of the offer that is now being given. It will certainly be a good professional quality. The problem is that there will be many fewer people who will benefit from this, because the number of places will be reduced, and the multidisciplinary offer that is built up today at the Nevro home will not be the same. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State make sure to talk to the users of this centre before choosing to drop it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e968	It's no wonder I'm dealing with the health company More and Romsdal or Health Mid-Norway RHF. It is through the regional health company that my guideline goes, and it is those who are responsible for ensuring that it is a good offer for all patient groups – including in More and Romesdal. Then the board of the health company More and Romsdal are responsible for organising the offer for their citizens. The fact that there are fewer beds, I am also aware, at least initially there are four beds in Ålesund and four beds in Molde. In addition, there shall be several outpatient areas. It is important to be able to provide more detailed services where most people live, as well as more flexible services, so that more people can be offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e975	My criticism is not that the Council of State has listened to the health company. My criticism is that the Council of State has only listened to the health company, and it is clear that then you only get one side of the case. When the Council of State decides to say that now we have to go down, and then you have to evaluate it afterwards, and then the users are going to get on the track, it becomes completely meaningless. So it's going to be going down the institution, and then we're going to evaluate the new one, and then we're going to see where we are. Yes, then you have already taken a good offer up with the root and removed it. I think it is sad that the Council of State so until those degrees show that this matter she will not address. I think it's regrettable, all the time, that there are a lot of the weakest patients who have a progressive course of disease, which only makes it worse and worse for the patients. Then it is important to have the security that such an offer can provide. I challenge the Council of State once again: will the Council of State, before you finally put a sentence in this matter, ensure that users are also heard?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e984	I am concerned that the patients in More and Romesdal will have a good offer. But I have to say with all due respect that I think they are better fit to carry out the medical evaluation in More and Romesdal than I should be from my office in Oslo, or we should be in Stortinget. In fact, it is those who have to make an assessment of what is now to be organised for this patient group. Then it is clear that we will follow closely all patient groups, because here it is that the specialist service must constantly assess the offer they have, whether it is good enough, whether it complies with the professional standard that is necessary. Here, it is supposed to get a better – a broader – medical offer, not a worse one.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e993	I would like to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘In the newspaper Østlandingen on 18 February 2012, we were able to read about a 64-year-old drunkard with a need for a new lung, but because he is over 60 years old, he is not able to do so. Does the Council of State think it is right to have age limits for when you are too old to receive this type of treatment, thus removing all opportunities to get a decent life back?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1002	I am concerned that medical treatment issues are addressed on a medical basis. When questions of transplantation are relevant, each application is assessed on the basis of medical data and the patient is called for consultation. If there is a doubt, the application is assessed by transplant-fast lung physicians and thorax surgeons. The games consider, among other things:\t\t You can change the patient's biological age how lung disease that has led to respiratory failure will affect life expectancy if the patient has other diseases that will affect life prospects after transplantation if clinical changes have occurred after the first referral that will affect the outcome if there is a need for one or two lungs, and if the patient also needs a new heart prior surgery in the breast, the potential for rehabilitation during a successful transplant; There are some patients over 60 years of age who are being investigated for transplantation after such an assessment, but international experience suggests being extremely careful about offering transplants to patients over 65 years of age. The occupational environment now assesses the age criterion and what speaks against a transplant, more stringent than before. This is due to experience in the complication and risk of transplantation in elderly patients. The complaint has decided that the county is the Board of Appeal for individual patients. As Minister of Health, I am responsible for ensuring that the transplant offer as a whole is optimal within the framework adopted by the Stortinget. I'm proud that Oslo University Hospital is now among the world's best both in the number of transplants and in the overall outcome of transplants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1033	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a difficult matter – it is both the questioner and the Council of State agree on, I believe. But what this is about is setting age limits, and in this case it's 60 years old. It is clear that when a person who needs a lung has passed 60 years of age and is refused because of age – at least what the article says, and I myself have visited this man, who confirms that it is because of the age he has been given no – that means that then life is over. So brutally, you almost have to be allowed to say that. When you get no on a matter like this, it means that life is over in a relatively short time. That's what I think is bad. At least you should have a hope of getting a transplant sometime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1040	As I tried to refer to in my answer, there are many assessments that are made when you are faced with assessing whether a person is going to have a transplant. As far as I understand it, it's like this, at least for a lot of transplants, for example. of kidneys, increasing in age, but it is difficult for lung transplantation. So this is because when your lungs fail, according to doctors, other organs often fail, for example. the hearts. It is always the case that this must be a medical professional assessment. It's not like you have a lot of access to organs either. At least we have to be glad that this is a field that is still going forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1047	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think I put the last question into practice and refer to this article, where a person stands up with his image and name. His name is Johan Ringdahl, 64 years old. Then is my specific question: What hope can the Council of State give to Johan Ringdahl?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1054	It is not possible in Stortinget to go into a single matter, even though I have been referred to it by the representative of Bredvold. I have to answer on a general basis, and I have tried to do so as extensively as I can. There are many factors that need to be taken into account when it comes to transplantation. It's complicated. It's complicated about age, but there's also other issues that are being assessed. I believe that those who believe that they do not receive the offer they should take this up with the county, so that the complaint may be considered again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1065	This question, from the representative Borghild Tende to the Minister of Labour, is raised by Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1068	‘The number of young disabled persons has increased by 24 pst. in four years. Nav states, according to Today's Business 24 February, that this is due to mental problems. There's a somewhat illogical conclusion, because there's almost no growth in the number of people over 30 years of age in the same period. However, training supported by Nav has become more difficult during this period. In my view, there is a main explanation for the increase in the number of young people. Does the Council of State share this assessment, and will the Council of State in that case make it easier to combine education and social benefits?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1075	Like the representative Raja, I'm concerned about the strong growth in the number of young people. The number of young people under the age of 30 increased by barely 1,800 or 24 pst. from 2007 to 2011 and with 719 persons in 2011. Growth can be partly explained by general population growth in this age group, at 11.4 p.m. during the period. There has also been an increase in the number of young people with unemployment benefits. While young people under the age of 30 make up 3 pst. of all disability pensioners, is 16,4 pst. by the recipients of redundancy benefits under 30 years of age. Consequently, the strong growth in 2011 can be partly explained by the conversion to redundancy benefits that came in 2010, which included persons who had previously been on temporary unemployment benefit and who have now been granted permanent disability pension. The trend of growing disability rates among young people is the same in several other countries. Research has shown that mental illness is the diagnosis group that has increased most among young people and that there has been an increase in recent years in the number of young people suffering from severe mental illness. This is a reality that we have to deal with. There is no evidence that there has been a similar increase in the incidence of mental illness among young people in the general population. The causes of unearned retirement among young people are complex. There is no simple explanation as to why more young people become disability pensioners today than before. In the crash report, Prop. 130 L for 2010–2011, which was dealt with at Stortingen in the autumn, is set up to provide a broad and integrated effort to reduce disability among young people. Many of the measures have already been implemented. This applies, for example: The new GIV project, directed by the Ministry of Knowledge, is designed to ensure that more people carry out secondary education. Cooperation between the health services and the Employment and Welfare Act is another measure that shows good results. Furthermore, from 2012, the government has launched a job strategy for people with disabilities. The strategy is precisely targeting the age group under 30. The State of Employment and Welfare has a broad range of measures aimed at people with disabilities, including support for regular education. In 2011, 19,500 persons participated in training activities in the Employment and Welfare Act. This accounted for one third of all persons with reduced working capacity. Over time, the number of persons under the age of 30 on training measures has declined slightly, while the number of participants in the measure has increased overall in the same age group. In 2004, there was a change in the rules on training aid, which in practice meant some tightening. An important reason was that, as a general rule, young people, and in particular those under the age of 26, will benefit from the State Lending Fund for Education. However, people with disabilities who need training in order to obtain or maintain work may continue to receive support. It is essential whether education is necessary or appropriate to get into work. It is therefore difficult to see that changes in the use of education as labour market measures in relation to the age group below 30 can significantly explain the growth of young people. Moreover, under 30 years of age with reduced working capacity are given priority in the allocation of labour market measures. This has been reinforced as of this year with the government's job strategy for young people under 30 years of age with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1088	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, which is far on the way – and naturally – the same thing that was under pressure in today's business yesterday. It is possible that the Council of State is right – as technically – that there has been no formal change other than the transfer of support from one law to another, but we get reports that practices have changed, and that many young people with chronic illness experience that it has become much more difficult to get support and help from Nav to complete formal education and thus avoid getting into permanent disability. However, the main point in my question is the clear link between education and disability among young people. Poor health at an early age and lack of education are two factors that are very important to explain why many young people become disabled. The question will then be what opportunities the Council of State sees to make it easier and more flexible to combine education and temporary social benefits through Nav, just to prevent young people from getting into permanent social benefits. It will be profitable both for the individual concerned and for the country in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1099	One of the most important things we do is the commitment we have through the New GIV — ensuring that young people actually complete higher education. Not having education is one of the main causes of disability. Then these rules were changed in 2004 — the limit was set at 26 years — because it must be so that most young people should use the State loan fund. There was a tendency for someone to cover their education through the Loan Fund, while others did not. At the same time, much more attention has been paid to the use of education through hubs and measures while on clarification. What has been done, in particular, with regard to the State Loan Fund, is to open up so that young people can convert their loans into scholarships. It's one of the most important things. So when you finish your education, you can turn your loan into a scholarship. I mean all in all that we have a very good arrangement now that takes into account that we have to prevent people from using the loan fund in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1108	I thank you again for the answer. There is no doubt that we need to use the tools we have to counteract a trend in which more and more young people are becoming permanently disabled. In this way, the Council of State has an important instrument through Nav. Governments have shown that 20,000 received training support through Nav last year, but how many of these were less than 30 years old appears to be unclear. How many are there really? Can the answer help camouflage reality? In addition, the Riksrevision presented a report yesterday showing that Nav’s budgets have increased by almost 30 pst. during the period 2008-2010, but all significant improvements in administration have been made. How will the Council of State ensure that the increased appropriations for Nav actually go to those who need it, and not least that they are used as an active tool to get young people to complete education and get to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1117	As regards yesterday’s report of the Riksrevision, it covers the period 2009-2010. The figures for 2011 -- I'm sure they'll give me the opportunity to put forward -- are of a completely different calibre. So it was a very difficult period in Nav's history, but now you see completely different numbers. So that's very good. I think we definitely share the common concern and believe that we must help young people in particular. All the measures that I am now taking are targeted specifically at young people. It is a bit of a raw priority – especially the job strategy – but I think it is important, because otherwise there is a lost work life ahead of them. I'm also busy with education. We don't very disagree, but I think we have a little bit of different documentation or view of whether the conversion we did has that effect. I mean, it doesn't have it. I believe it was a negative effect we had in the past, by the fact that some people – who were not to get it – were actually able to cover their education through government grants. Then we did it that way to prevent that association. Then, of course, we have to make sure that education is still an alternative for those who are really going to get it. That is why I am pleased that we have done so that the loan fund can now convert loans into grants for those who were actually disabled and who have completed education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1126	The ordinary Questionnaire has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-07.ana.ud1189e1139	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
