ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e141	A number of permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Tor Bremer from 1 March onwards and until further notice by the Left-wing Group on the sick leave of the representative Trine Skei Grande from 1 March onwards and until further notice by the appointed Grand Delegation to Canada, an application has been submitted by the Grand President, Dag Terje Andersen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Ingarill Olsen, Per Sandberg, Borghild Tenden and Anne Tingelstad Wøien from 4 March to 10 March from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives of the Party of Presidents on the leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth from 5 March to 9 March to take part in meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Abid Q. Raja 6-8. March For Finnmark County: Willy Pedersen 6-8. March For Hordaland County: Torkil Åmland 6-8. March For Uppland County: Johannes Rindal 6-8. March For Oslo: Ola Elvestuen 1 March and until further notice For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Sonja Edvardsen 1 March and until further notice For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer 6-9. ==References====External links== March
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e230	Ola Elvestuen and Sonja Edvardsen are present and will take the seat. The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e235	I am pleased to promote a proposal for a representative to establish a system of qualification support from research institutes applying for basic government funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e240	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e256	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e265	Representatives of the Progress Party have made proposals on how to organise better working life for professionals. The rapporteur will praise the representatives for putting an important theme on the agenda, namely competence and security. For me, this is my first task as rapporteur, so I would like to thank an overall committee for a good cooperation and a very good tone in the work. The proposal proposes a series of proposals covering both daily rest places, refresher training for professional drivers and smooth driving training for foreign drivers. There is an overall committee that sees the importance of competitiveness in the industry and that drivers have good conditions. In its work on the proposal, the Committee also held a hearing on the matter, in which we received a number of good and important input. It is important that in the truck industry it is equal to treatment between Norwegian and non-resident carriers. The transport industry is important for business, and at the same time we know that the industry has the road as a job. It is therefore obvious that road standard and not least vehicle and driver are of satisfactory calibre. In this context, it must be said that at least the case rapporteur feels that work related to non-resident vehicles on Norwegian roads has recently received a strong focus. It's positive. After visits to inspection posts, at the latest during the Committee's visit to Hedmark last week, we see that the control work under security and competition conditions is a priority, and that is very reassuring. I will now move on to a slightly more specific right-hand position in the matter. Professional drivers are an important working group to ensure that businesses come into and out of goods and goods markets. The overarching thing for us is security for all who travel on the road, as well as an organized job for all who have their daily work on the road, and for professional drivers to be treated in a non-discriminatory way. With regard to the seven proposals that have been put forward, the Right will support two of these. Almost all professional drivers who drive a lorry over 3,5 tonnes and buses registered for more than 12 persons have to deal with driving and rest periods. These specify, inter alia: after a maximum driving time of 4,5 hours, a break of 45 minutes shall be taken. Today we have only nine approved resting places in the country. The Ministry points out in its letter of reply that 15-20 daily rest places are now planned until 2013. In the right, this work needs to be intensified and adapted to the needs of the industry. Good continuing training for professional drivers is important. The periodic training of professional drivers is currently required every five years under the EU Driver Directive. On the other hand, the Directive is open to interpretation of the way in which continuing training is to be provided, and this also reflects the costs of the Norwegian transport industry. According to Norwegian Professional Manager Allianse, the costs per driver in Norway are between 10000 and 18000 kroner. If you look at Denmark, the cost is 5000 kroner per driver. The right considers it necessary for the industry to investigate models in order to reduce the cost of continuing training. This is in line with what, for example: The NHO Transport pointed out during the hearing in the Committee. Right-wing believes it is important that we have a competitive transport industry in the country, and that is why it is an important issue The Progress Party travels. It is a matter of business and jobs and not least of safety on Norwegian roads. I would like to bring up the two minority proposals on this subject with the Progress Party on the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e293	The representative Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad has addressed the two proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e296	The representative proposal we are now debating is about a better everyday life for professionals. It's basically a commendable initiative and a good focus. We all travel the traffic every day, and that is the job of professionals. Therefore, improved road safety is an important part of the health, environmental and safety thinking of professionals. Therefore, it is a radical improvement in the daily lives of professionals that the number of traffic fatalities and the number of heavy traffic injuries are now historically low. But then it is difficult for us to understand that one of the proposals to improve the everyday lives of professionals is to remove the dot load system, a system that helps to save lives by following traffic rules and which, according to both Sintef and Safety Traffic, works well. It is the Progress Party that promotes this proposal in its proposal for a representative, and the most frightening thing, as we see it, is that the Progress Party writes that: ‘The point load system of the day causes small errors to have disproportionate consequences for drivers’. It scares us when driving for well over 70 km/h in a 60-zone is characterised as a ‘little mistake’ or when driving for more than 90 km/h in a 70-zone is a minor mistake. This is how I could go through the entire overview of the infringements that cause a dot load. What is produced from the Progress Party as a ‘small error’ is gross infringements of the Road Traffic Act and can be the difference between life and death. So how to remove the dot load system then better the everyday lives of professionals is a mystery to us. The Labour Party agrees with the focus on daily rest places and winter maintenance, and we show in this context the response of the Council of State. But we also want to keep focus on the fact that there will be more daily rest places, and I myself know that there will be a new daily rest place in the Nord-Trøndelag already in ours. We also point out that the State Road Service has announced an increase in winter preparedness, both for maintenance, for the closure of roads and for the use of other instruments that the State Road Service already has. The focus of the Committee's work on this proposal for a representative has been on non-resident trailers on Norwegian winter roads. From the Workers' Party, I would like to state that both Norwegian and foreign trailers are involved in accidents on Norwegian winter roads, and that measures that improve the safety of one group also improve the safety of the other. Even I've had the pleasure of being with the outdoor control group in the State Road Administration in the North Trøndelag one day on control in the Inner Namdalen, and it was a day of many useful recordings and a lot of learning. What emerges as the most important must be the following: firstly, it is about actively informing abroad about the Norwegian requirements. Because it is often not malicious that foreign drivers do not meet Norwegian requirements – it may be that you do not know. It is also the responsibility of the goods owners, or those who send or receive the goods in Norway. They have a responsibility for the transport they generate on Norwegian roads. We have to be more clear about that. Then it's about putting in place better and clearer requirements for tyre equipment, especially in winter. We hear that clearly from those who control – it doesn’t help if you meet today’s requirements, they’re not good enough. So if you travel beyond the border and are controlled and found in order, you can still stand in a hill further north of the country. And it's about looking at chain requirements. It may not be enough for the chain only to fit the wheels; it must actually be able to function. And then it's about further increasing control activities. Because it's already increased, but for our part we want to increase it further. These measures will increase safety on Norwegian roads. It will make both Norwegian and non-resident car combinations safer, and it will make industry more competitive, and at least it will not get worse because some people use poorer equipment. This applies to both Norwegian and foreign companies. Improving the daily lives of drivers – as the Labour Party sees it – is about improving road safety. Therefore, we do not want to remove the dot load scheme. This is about better technical equipment requirements for both Norwegian and non-resident wagon trains. But for us, a better everyday life for professionals is also about action against social dumping, focusing on collective agreements and pay and working conditions. This has not been mentioned by the Progress Party in one word in its proposal for a representative, and we must simply say that it does not surprise us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e318	Our proposal to improve the daily lives of professional drivers is about looking at measures that can help improve the working day of the many thousands of professional drivers who make sure that Norway is kept going every day. They keep Norway going by driving food out to the shops, delivering goods to the construction industry and transporting goods to and from industry. Had it not been for this job that these boys and girls do, perhaps the slogan of Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund – ‘Without the truck stopping Norway’ – would have been a reality. By sitting on the Transport Committee since 2005, I have met an incredible number of competent professional drivers. They have given me feedback as to what kind of everyday life they have behind the steering wheel of the car combinations, and how much of the everyday life they agree to drive on miserable roads. However, they are proud of their profession and take credit for the fact that the car should be both clean and in a proper condition. When these put their honor in the car and the way they behave on the road, I understand that they also expect the Stortinget and the State to take their responsibility and arrange for physical measures that allow drivers to comply with all the laws and regulations that we adopt. One of the really hopeless things is daily rest places. I note that in response to the Committee, the Council of State has promised that the Road Administration of the State will complete a 24-hour rest period plan early in 2012. Today we go into the third month of the year, and for the time being I haven't seen anything about the plan, but it may still be very early in the year for the Council of State. Those who are on the road and are stopped and fined for a breach of driving and rest periods expect that it will have to end waiting. They don't have time to wait, they need rest places now – not in five or ten years. So I really hope that State Council Kleppa puts in an extra gear to establish daily rest places at a great pace. A professional driver must comply with the Road Traffic Act and ensure that he keeps speed limits, relates to driving and rest periods and not least that the car is in a proper condition. But when it comes to the state, we've made sure to waive any responsibility. Anyway, the driver gets blamed. This cannot continue, and therefore a transport supervision should be established, which gives the right to penalise also the State Road Service, inter alia. standard road, daily rest places, etc. One of the major challenges we see on the road network is that it is increasingly rolling in foreign vehicle trains, which especially in the winter months have huge problems on Norwegian winter roads and Norwegian winter driving. This creates major problems with roads being closed because many of the foreign vehicle combinations lack the right type of tyres, chains, and the driver does not have experience in running on winter roads with such a bad standard. Unfortunately, we have received a number of examples of that. I know that you try to present it as if there are no more foreign drivers than Norwegian drivers who have problems, but a study among other things. in Valdres of 200 vehicle combinations showed that the whole 75 pst. of the vehicle combinations that had to be loaded were non-residents. The Progress Party therefore believes that this study, together with several others, clearly shows that we have major challenges with foreign vehicle trains – challenges that we have to deal with. It is both about the road safety of these drivers who are unable to drive during winter driving, and not least for all others who are travelling on the same roads and who are at risk of being met by a 40 or 50 tonnes wagon train, which is not equipped for traffic on Norwegian winter roads. That's why I'm very happy that the Council of State has clearly said that we need to increase the number of controls. With all this behind, it is a little disappointing that none of the other parties will support the proposal to ask the government to put forward concrete proposals to increase safety in winter travel with Norwegian and especially foreign trailers on Norwegian roads. But it's still not too late to turn around. I would therefore urge all the parties to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, and I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made in this matter. Then to the representative Bratli. I record that the representative Bratli thinks it's okay that this is the only professional group that, if you make three mistakes – three mistakes – will lose the right to their livelihood. All other occupational groups are related to the Working Environment Act. It does this profession as long as they are in the terminal, as long as it is in the employment relationship, but as soon as they are on the road and make a mistake, they must not deal with the same work environment law as everyone else. The consequence is that this group loses its job, loses its livelihood and ends up in the social office. However, if a doctor makes one mistake, two mistakes or three mistakes, he usually only gets one package – and does not lose the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e337	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e340	In a letter to the Committee, I have made comments on the various proposals that are being made here. The letter is attached to the setting, and I refer to it, but I comment on a few relationships here. Firstly, we are in a different way dealing with several of the proposals that have been put forward – some have also been introduced, for example. 15 years of administrative validity of driving licences. I would like to say to the proposal on daily rest and sleep time that it is important for road safety that drivers comply with the rules for running and sleeping time. Powers have a responsibility to help ensure that there are places where drivers can take a nap. Here's a set of funds, here's work going on making sure of more of these places. But I agree with the committee that there is a need here to do more, and the state road system is going to follow this up with its own plan. To the proposal for continuing training, I would just say that the requirements for continuing training were applicable to the first drivers in 2011. It will necessarily take some time before the system sees itself. I therefore recommend that you have some experience in continuing training before considering any alternative models. To dot taxes and other public sanctions: it is my firm belief that the dot regime saves lives. This allows more people to follow traffic rules. It provides a more effective response system to those who break the rules. There are also research results that underline just this. Removal of the dot regime will result in more people being killed and seriously injured in traffic. I would strongly warn against the removal of this system. Now we've just sharpened this system. As of 1 July last year, there was a strong intensification for fresh drivers. It is strong to listen to the UP-Karlsen saying that there has been a short period of time, but he sees very clearly that this intensification is working, especially towards young people – the number of young people in traffic has fallen. Both the Committee and the proposers and the Department and the State Road Administration are concerned about what we do in relation to winter maintenance and trailers on Norwegian winter roads. It is those who are running, who have the primary responsibility here, whether they are Norwegian or foreign. It is important to be aware of what a good grip means. Bad tyres, missing chains, inappropriate running combinations, inexperienced drivers – all of them playing. It is clear that foreign running gear is over-represented in such events, and that is also because we have taken special action against foreign drivers – I am thinking of languages as well as information of different kinds, but in recent times we have strengthened both control, maintenance and preparedness on the road. The state road service uses a resuscitated vehicle, we've given a shelter to remove running gear from the road, and the State Road Service can block a path with problematic paths before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e357	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e360	State councils are owned by one of the largest transport and logistics companies in Norway, Posten. Yesterday I asked questions about Blomquist Trucking, among others. Unfortunately, some of these cars are often involved in problems on Norwegian winter roads. I want to challenge the Council of State very concretely, and I hope she will answer that she will follow it up, for that part of the Post, the Slovak Blomquist cars, often run with rubber that is not prepared to drive on Norwegian winter roads. Since the Council of State says she is concerned with road safety, I would like to challenge her directly: will the Council of State now ensure that all the cars that run on behalf of Post Norway have rubber that is suitable for driving on Norwegian winter roads during the winter season? I hope that the Council of State can be clear now, because it will really help to remove many of the problems we are experiencing on Norwegian winter roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e365	I replied yesterday, and I can repeat it today, that I believe that the Post with its subsidiaries and the Post as a state-owned company will of course keep Norwegian legislation and be busy going leading as a good example. So this gives me the opportunity to say that the State Road Administration has a proposal for a hearing on winter tyres on the Norwegian road. This question concerns more than the Poster's cars. But let me underline: I'm going to follow up on the Post, but I'm looking forward to the ring that's now going, and the possibility here to introduce a winter deck offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e373	Equal treatment between operators in the industry is important, and that is why many years ago the Right proposed the introduction of a mandatory AutoPASS chip in a large vehicle. It is essential to have a level playing field in a functioning market economy. I think that's why an overall committee decided to introduce this from the summer of 2012. Now it turns out that this cannot be implemented by the Council of State from the summer. It seems that the Right is very unfortunate, and my question is why the Council of State wants to continue a system that actually weakens the competitiveness of the Norwegian transport industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e378	I am very impatient after introducing a mandatory piece for heavy goods vehicles. The reason for this is that both Norwegian and foreign heavy cars will then be non-discriminatory, ensure proper payment of tolls, provide revenues to the toll companies, secure equal payments from foreign carriers and others, and promote competition on a level playing field in the Norwegian and foreign transport industries. So it's going to have to take a little bit more time than I'm assuming initially. There is also a hearing to take place, the assignment given. We're going to make a bill for Stortinget. My goal is that the Stortinget has it in her fall 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e383	Many non-resident wagon trains carry out transport work in Norway. Wintertime creates many problems, and also a good deal of accidents. My question to the Council of State is: is there EU rules that restrict the ability of Norwegian authorities to operate both control measures and sanctions in the case of vehicle combinations that are being stopped and where the standard is not satisfied with the specific conditions of the Norwegian road network in winter time?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e390	It is that on the one hand, we need to have the same legislation at the bottom – it is related to the EEA – but on the other hand, that does not prevent us from doing more than what we have done on both the control, the maintenance and the information page. That's because we're also the last time in winter to be able to tighten up both maintenance and preparedness, if a situation should arise, and change the law – gave us permission to remove heavy driving gear that hinders traffic. We have now also started a statement to see if we can make the buyers of transport services more responsible. We also think that would mean something for the standard of the transport industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e395	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e398	It is important to contribute to a better everyday life for professionals even if these proposals do not flash. Something is already at work, and something has already been done. The working party is working on a zero-killed and hard-damaged vision of traffic. This is why we have increased efforts to significantly improve road safety, and better wintering of roads is one of the measures. I'd like to say a little bit about heavy transport and heavy tyres. It has a very high impact on road safety and the everyday lives of professionals. We have a lot of winter in the north. This winter has so far been marked by a lot of ice and trackways, and it is worse than good winter roads. A study shows that the stopping distance for heavy-duty vehicles is significantly reduced by the number of multiple spikes. In June 2011, the Road Directorate sent a proposal to consult on the amendment of the Vehicle Regulation. The Directorate proposes to increase the permitted weight of certain heavy-duty vehicles and trailers. Furthermore, some adjustments to the permitted number of spikes are proposed. Today, 200 to 6 grams of spikes per deck are allowed on buses, but only 130 to 3 grams of spikes on heavy cars. Today's regulation is not satisfactory for the transport safety of a tank vehicle transporting dangerous goods and it is important that the number of spikes is also increased for heavy transport. Today, for example, petrol is being driven from Tromsø to Mehamn and Ifjord in Finnmark – a distance of 770 km is one way. On this journey, the transporters shall pass the mountain crossings of Sørkjosberg, Kvänangsbergellet, Baddereidet, Sennaland, Hatter and Ifjordfjellet. All these mountain crossings are hard to keep. Then it is important to be properly protected for the guide. Spike tyres are often set up against the environmental perspective. A load of dangerous goods in tanks is up to 47 000 litres, and in the event of an accident the environment will be very exposed, and in the worst case the whole environmental benefit is gone. 70 more spikes per deck appear to be a modest measure, but it will have a significant impact on the daily lives of professional drivers, at least northwards. Because when the accident is first out, every one of the spikes can count pretty hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e413	The Progress Party has taken many initiatives to improve the everyday lives of professional drivers. The document we are discussing today is a new initiative from the Progress Party, where we are promoting a number of proposals on the same subject. It shows that there are a number of factors that should be taken into account in order to enable drivers to experience a better working life in an important but very demanding profession. The most important thing is, of course, that we build modern and safe roads much faster than the government provides. There is no need for oily Norway to continue to have roads that are among the worst in Europe. What is also important is that Norway maintains roads in a much better way than what we do today. It is enough to refer to the draft plan that came yesterday, which shows an overall lag in maintenance on the national road network of over 40 billion. I guess there's a place between 20 and 30 billion. kr on the county road network. For day-to-day work as a professional driver, there is a sufficient number of rest places, perhaps especially daily rest places, the practical relationship that is most urgent in order to ensure good working conditions. Such conditions today would hardly have been accepted by many other occupational groups. We are at least happy that the Right supports us in this field. So the Council of State said here in the reply exchange that we can make more independent of the European Union. As the rapporteur said, we have recently been on our way to the committee, and we have been to the state road safety control station in Hedmark. What can be done in the short term to ensure that foreign trailer drivers can actually use a chain? So it is not enough to check that the chain is hanging on to the car. You actually have to make sure that the driver is able to use the chain when needed. What is done in the short term to ensure that tyres on non-resident vehicle combinations operating in Norway are actually suitable for Norwegian winter conditions? I assume – I repeat – that the Minister for Transport agrees that we can impose Norwegian driving requirements in Norway without hindrance from the EU. What is done to ensure that there is sufficient police authority so that breaches of regulations and laws requiring police assistance can be followed up? It cannot be, and it should not be, so that drivers and vehicle trains get on the road because there is a lack of police resources. What is done in the short term to ensure that foreign trailer drivers driving on Norwegian winter roads have the same basic knowledge of driving on just Norwegian winter roads as we require from Norwegian drivers? The EU cannot manage road safety on Norwegian roads, can it? That's the question to the Council of State, and I'll be happy for clear answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e424	Norway and the Norwegian economy depend entirely on professional drivers and other transport workers. We are totally dependent on professional drivers and trailers to have food at the store. Norwegian fishing industry is completely dependent on professional drivers to export wonderful Norwegian seafood from Coast Norway to Europe. Norwegian industry needs professional drivers to get parts from abroad and to every single enterprise in all hooks in our long-range country. Without a professional driver, it would also not be possible to take the express bus from Oslo to Sørlande, from which I am from. Knowing the importance of professional drivers and the transport industry, as politicians, we have a great responsibility to facilitate the industry. Improving the daily lives of professional drivers should be a matter of course. The working party, SV and the Centre party seem to be good enough for drivers as they are now. They don't want to do anything further to improve the situation, because they say action is going on, and they only want to put our proposal through the protocol – this despite the hearing we had on 17 January, showed that we have a lot to do to give professionals good employment. The driving and rest periods, which should be best for the drivers, are clearly not working as they were supposed to. If they were to function, good daily rest places had to be arranged at least so that drivers would not have to stop at inappropriate places without toilets and other conveniences depending on. Roads are drivers' workplaces, but the red-greens do not care enough about the working environment of this working group. Every year, foreign trailers are involved in many accidents on Norwegian winter roads. This is often due to a lack of equipment — i.e. that many of the foreign trails are not equipped for winter driving or that they do not exercise to drive under such conditions. Many do not know how to attach chains to the wheels, or on which wheel the chains should be attached, and then they often leave it. This leads to dangerous situations for other road users, and also for themselves. It is also a cross-section of thought that foreign drivers can travel on Norwegian roads without having the competence that Norwegian drivers need to acquire. I'm thinking, for example. on smooth running courses. It is important to have more controls on foreign trailers at the border, but also along the road to make sure that the trails have the equipment needed to drive on Norwegian winter roads. The Progress Party is confident that the staff controlling both Norwegian and foreign trailers are competent to see what equipment the various vehicles are equipped with. The screener must be able to know which trailers are to come up a steep slope in the snow flakes without chains, which must have chains on them and which vehicles cannot come up on the ground even if they have chains on them. Often the trails are standing in the ground when the snow is at worst, and this could have been avoided if there had been several checks at the right places with such qualified staff. The Progress Party wants a better working environment for our professional drivers and hopes for the longest time that all parties here at Stortinget do the same. The propulsion party believes in the drivers when they say they work under bad conditions. And because we believe in them, the Progress Party wants to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e443	When you stand on this pulpit and talk that someone hasn't taken up anything, I wonder, why don't you do it yourself, then? We have not said that our draft representative has all the solutions to all the challenges. The representative Susanne Bratli is standing on this pulpit and wondering why we haven't talked about social dumping or written anything about it. Why haven't the government parties written anything about social dumping? Why are the government parties not occupied by one of the companies that the government owns 95 pst? i, a Slovak company? Perhaps you should look at the pay and work conditions of that company? The times you ask to see them, you don't get to publish them, because you can't see the paychecks to those who work for a Norwegian company, 95 pst. owned by Posten Norway, who actually runs and spends a lot of time in Norway. We have major problems with these cars, and many Norwegian professional drivers are concerned about the situation. I really hope that the Council of State will now go back on that with social dumping that we have been challenged on here. We are in complete agreement. When another representative from the government parties comes up here and wonders about this with winter and heavy tires, and defends how great and fine it is, yes, why not promote proposals when the representative proposal is being discussed in Stortinget? There is a reason why the proposal should be submitted to the Committee and that it should have a thorough and sound review. It should be possible to make new, good proposals – not just afterwards when the matter is under discussion in the Grand Duchy. When we discuss this today, they say that you should have winter tyres in Norway, and we should do more on social dumping. I'm concerned with social dumping, and that's why I also focus on one of the companies we're responsible for, and will challenge Meltveit Kleppa: why shouldn't we make sure they have rubber on the tires that make them well protected to drive on Norwegian winter roads? I have experienced myself and seen drivers who do not have a bearing on driving on Norwegian winter roads. I stood looking at a car that had been stuck on a one-time and bicycle path. Then a new car came to help the other one up. It was totally hopeless. Anyone who has driven a bit of a car knew that this was hopeless. Then you realize that they don't have the prerequisites for running here. When the newspaper Valdres writes that 75 pst of those who need rescue are foreign car combinations, yes, then we have a problem with which we have to do something. So you'd like to talk about everything else, but I'm wondering the whole assumption here: have you actually done your job in the committee? Why have we not made proposals on social dumping, on which Susanne Bratli was up here and challenged us? There is nothing from the government parties about social dumping in this proposal. But we're concerned with social dumping. We're going to fight to fight social dumping. We want a level playing field. This means that we need to do something about the charging system, and we need to improve working conditions for professionals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e452	If another representative had said that this debate was both subtle and flat, I would have been hard to disagree with. Because what we experience here is actually two sides: a side that relates to the real world, and another side that only relates to its own government and no longer goes for the old slogan "All power in this room". What you're really saying is that all the power is going to be out of this hall, and you don't want to get involved in anything. This is a theme that engages big out there. But even though the commitment is great, there are no representatives of the government parties who really want a debate – they relate to a surrealistic world, while some relate to the real world. So if we are going to take the headline in the newspaper Valdres seriously, it says what we have repeatedly said: the biggest problem is foreign trailers on Norwegian winter roads. 75 pst. of all assignments relate to foreign trailers. Do we believe that, or are we going to make our own reality? I have another look, which we got on the committee tour, concerning Hedmark and Oppland. Here it is quite clear: Foreign trailers do not tolerate the Norwegian lead. Foreign vehicle combinations are not built or loaded for Norwegian winter driving. We need more stringent controls. Is there anyone here in the house that's gonna take care of it? Is there anyone here who wants to make suggestions about it? Or should you leave it to others? The Norwegian Transport magazine says quite well: ‘It is almost intended to establish the fact that political parties do not give particular priority to transport, with one exception per day – FrP.’. I think it's very sad that you experience a total absence. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e468	We are dealing with a proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, which the majority of the Committee requests will be annexed to the Minutes. That means that we think it makes a lot of sense in the proposal, and we point out that the government is working on this matter and on many of the points raised in this proposal. That's the difference between position and opposition. Those who have been sitting at this great height in this period know that that's how we work, without them suspecting each other from this pulpit by saying that it means that we don't care about the content of the proposal. That's how we've done it before, and I think we're going to keep going. If we had disagreed with what was proposed, disagreed with the intentions, we would have proposed that the proposal be rejected. But now it's like asking why we haven't made proposals on social dumping. We have not done so, because it was not part of the draft representative as it existed. But I can assure everyone that there is something the Workers' Party is working on, is social dumping and action against it. That's why we work closely with our fraction in a completely different committee than the transport committee. I would also like to stress that the Workers' Party and the government parties, the red-green parties, are actually very concerned with both professional drivers and others who use the road every day, and that everyone should have it as well as possible on Norwegian roads. That is why we are so clear that the proposal to remove the dot load for all is not a proposal that improves road safety, nor does it improve the everyday life of professional drivers. And I repeat, we don't think it's a small mistake to break the speed limit up to 15 km/h in a 60-zone. It's a big mistake, and it could be the difference between life and death. That's why we're going against it. In the case of tyres, I would just like to inform you that when I was with the State Road Administration in Nord-Trøndelag, I was informed that they were actually fined more Norwegian car combinations for bad tyres than for foreign ones. The problem was still that the requirements for tyres in both Norwegian and foreign countries are too ‘bad’. This applies not only to vehicle combinations, but also to passenger cars. We have to look at that, and we have to do something about it. But then, of course, it's a challenge that those who are used to other conditions to drive on, who come from other countries, need even better tyre equipment than us to deal with the situation. That's why we have to deal with this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e480	A comment on Fredriksen's post: I don't know if I got it, I did. I don't think I quite understood what it had to do in this debate either. I kind of felt that it took off a little bit in a way, without, as I said, fully realizing what it had in this debate to do. But what I understand is that you have an incredibly large focus on ‘foreign’ trailers, I stress that the Progress Party says foreign trailers. It is those who break the rules, it is those who are involved in most accidents, etc., and reference is made to an investigation in Valdres. I just want to make it clear that we're talking about both foreign and Norwegian trailers. There is little difference between breaking the law or being involved in accidents on Norwegian winter roads. I think the debate had insisted that we had talked about trailer drivers, or drivers in general, and did not have the split that the Progress Party is now doing. Then it was also said that only the Progress Party is occupied by the trailer drivers, trucks and heavy goods vehicles. I just want to remember that there are actually much more checks being carried out now than in the previous year, including technical ones, and this escalation will continue. We in the Workers' Party and the Government have a good cooperation with the truck industry. We are committed to ensuring fair conditions of competition between Norwegian and non-resident carriers, and we are ready to strengthen the requirements for tyres and chains. But we do not – I stress it again – accept the discrimination of foreign and Norwegian carriers to which the Progress Party refers, and it must be allowed to ask what reasons the Progress Party really has in the matter. So to whom you refer all the time – Valdres should now be the same as for the whole country. In its comments, the Progress Party largely refers to Norwegian Professional Alliance, among other things, as a witness of truth. I would like to make the Stortinget aware that this is an organisation that on 2 January had zero – zero – paying members. It's not that I don't believe in their claims, but it seems strange. So until the dot load – also there is a strange connection that I think Hoksrud draws out when he says that other workers can do about as many mistakes as they want, as many illegalities as they want, and that they are only allowed to continue. It's actually not like that! If you do something illegal — or act critically — to other workers in the workplace, you get a warning in some areas, and if you don't follow the rules, it's actually out. But dragging it into this context gets a little bit weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e493	Bård Hoksrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e496	It won't be that easy to use just 1 minute to answer the previous question. I record that the representative Bratli first attacks us because we are not involved in social dumping, and afterwards she says that it was not part of the proposal. It's a strange argumentation technique. But I think it's sad. Proposal No. 5 from the Progress Party: ‘The government is asking for an increase in control activities on Norwegian roads, especially in the event of poor weather and driving conditions, and foreclosure of use bans under the Road Traffic Act whose vehicle is not suitable for winter driving.’ There's nothing about foreigners here; it says about everyone. But we know that unfortunately foreign people are very overrepresented, and that is also why this debate is coming. In particular, it concerns some of the companies in which the state is a storehouse, and which are many of those with which we have problems – those who use Slovak and Polish drivers. That's what this is all about. I think it is a pity that the government parties will not support what we really agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e510	Just to clarify it first in connection with my post instead: one revisits that one wants to track down the whole debate; one tries to get a debate on whether Norwegian or foreign professional drivers. To have said that once and for all, everyone wants equal treatment, and that's exactly what's the challenge. But we also have to take over and see that when we talk about winter driving, about Norwegian conditions, it is actually that foreign drivers are overrepresented in terms of the need for assistance from rescue companies. The whole proposal is aimed at improving the everyday lives of professional drivers. There is hardly any professional group in Norway that has suffered more and has been more neglected and ignored over time than professional drivers. It seems that both the LO and the government are hovering around an environmental bubble where professional drivers and freight freight with trailers and trucks are a necessary evil, and that no one wants to see the value of the job being done. We'll take care of daily rest places. A daily rest area should have toilet, shower and preferably also other amenities. The professional traffic union responded to 40 pst. by drivers, they had access to breaks. 20 pst. black no. 40 pst. does not have breakrooms at all. It's even worse when we talk about access to do. Is there anyone in this room who can mention another profession that has this type of HMS in its everyday life? Isn't it time that this will be able to agree that today's situation for professional drivers is unworthy? No, you don't, and I have to say that all power is taken out of this hall. We don't have decision-making powers. It's a shame for us in this building, but it's a shame for the professionals who don't get the support they should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e521	In the last articles, attention has been paid to road safety on Norwegian winter roads. Here, different parties may have a slightly different starting point – it is quite clear – but at the same time, a good work is being done by both the police and the State Road Service to follow up and strengthen at any time both the legislation and the responses we have. The EEA is based on a common regulatory framework, even if we have different geography. The winter conditions are different in Norway than in several other countries, but let me say that both the proposal for winter tyres and the proposal for financial co-responsibility for transport buyers must be checked out in relation to the EEA. It's going to be done. Our goal is to get both of these proposals out before the coming winter. Then we work preventively, both the government and the state road service, with our international contacts. That means that this very topic I have been dealing with both the Polish Minister and the Danish Minister, and it is to discuss how we can always contribute information in advance and ensure that the most possible drivers are aware of the legislation and running conditions in Norway. Then I must say to Bård Hoksrud when he here appears a little offended that the Stortinget has not joined in proposal No. 6: ‘The Government requests the Government to make concrete proposals for increased safety in winter driving with Norwegian, and especially foreign, trailers on Norwegian roads.’ There should be proposal No. 5 -- now I read wrong, President, but they kind of go together here. Proposal No. So 5 is going to cancel out. There is an example of something that has already been done. It is an example that the government has captured the fact that there is a great deal of attention both in the industry and in the size of the population, and otherwise there is a need for action in this field. This will also be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e530	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e544	There is no proposal for a debate here. There is so far one recorded speaker, and it is the case's rapporteur, Mr Mandt, who has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes – I underline until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e547	Yeah, I'm not going to use that. I just want to use the opportunity to thank the Committee for a clean and orderly approach to changes in the Health Care Act and the Special Health Service Act. The changes concern compulsory abstinence for health professionals and a technical change in the use of names. As I said, it did not create the great political disagreement in the committee. The Committee agrees that the changes make it possible to improve control and that a person can thus detect drug use in health services. That is good patient safety, and the entire committee supports the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e568	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e579	In this case, the size shall examine a proposal for a plan of progress in order to ensure an optional and dignified care for all older people. The draft document 8 consists of a total of 27 points. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that Norway should have a good and dignified, high-quality care for the elderly. It is also appropriate to clarify that the Stortinget has recently adopted a new law on municipal health and care services which states that the municipality should ensure that all residents of the municipality are provided with sound and necessary health and care services. This means that caregivers who need to be cared for by good luck are entitled to do so. Of course, it is very important to carry out supervision of municipal health services in order to ensure that this is realised. Of the 27 points, the proposal to transfer the financial responsibility for the care of the elderly from the municipalities to the state must be considered as the basis for the whole case. The proposal implies that when an elderly person in need of care is authorised at the institution or at home, the State shall be obliged to pay the service to the supplier, as the elder chooses. This is the introduction of a single-cost financing of the care of the elderly, which will undermine the entire model on which the care of the elderly in Norway is based. In the Norwegian model, the municipalities are responsible for the care of the elderly, and it is the municipalities, through framework funding, that have the freedom to adapt the care provision to the needs of the individual. Although the media may give the impression that things are bad in Norwegian care for the elderly — and there are many isolated cases that provide a basis for believing it — the model itself is not worth rocking by. Municipalities should be responsible for the care of the elderly because there is an unbureaucratic system that allows for the adaptation of care provision to the population of each municipality. The organisation of care for the elderly as proposed will stimulate the development of a bureaucracy and a diagnostic and reporting system that is both undesirable, heavy and expensive. It is worth recalling the experience of health businesses. Companies have a financial system to which the proposal can be compared. There's a bureaucracy built up every now and then, there's every reason to go closer to the seams. Therefore, a broad majority of the Committee does not support this proposal. I do not want to comment on all the points in this package. The Council of State has given detailed answers in the attached statement, but I will comment on some. Points 22 and 23 propose a State staffing standard for nursing homes, as regards both doctors and nurses, and also that the Health Directorate should be the approval authority for the crew plans. The majority of the Committee does not support this. The justification is that there is a different need for staffing in individual departments according to the needs of individuals around the care sector. A state norm can easily become a maximum standard that does not provide sufficient flexibility. The new Local Health Act states that individuals have the right to services adapted to individual needs. Then the need for manning will be different, also for patients with the same diagnosis. It is good for the patient that these assessments can be taken in the individual municipality and in the individual hospital. But let me stress that it is thoroughly documented that enough personnel with the right skills will be one of the most important challenges we face in the future. The vast majority of the elderly in nursing homes have complex disorders. Staff are required to do so. Older people face disease challenges other than those of the younger population, and the competences of elderly care must reflect these needs. Today, there are few demands for professional competence in hospitals and in the home service. In a 2009 report, SINTEF claims that it is mainly the working environment, working time and the low status of care services that prevent recruitment to the sector. We have to take this over. The report is based on interviews with help nurses. They describe a working situation in which they work either too much, too little or too much time. It is our job to ensure that more people take health training. The new Communication on Welfare Education, now being addressed in the United Kingdom, proposes more interventions that will make education more attractive and will help raise the professional level in the health and care sector. Among other things, a new model for the training of health and social workers in secondary education is proposed. It is proposed to introduce a new test system with the y-way – the professional path – where candidates with vocational education and training in health and social matters can be admitted to organised higher education and it is proposed to launch a test of health and social vocational education based on a secondary education other than a professional letter or professional competence in health and social matters. This will be the great challenge of Velferds-Norway for the next 20 years. In another point, 21 of the proposed document 8, it is proposed to earmark own resources for the implementation of the model from the municipality of Fredericia in Denmark – a model based on the strategy of the project «The longest possible in your life». The Committee emphasises that this model represents something very positive and is fully in line with what has been a priority in Norwegian elderly care for the past 10–15 years, namely strengthening home-based care. 80 pst. wish to live a self-employed life in owner-occupied dwellings or in an organised housing with common services when they grow old. Most people who receive help from the municipality live in their homes. It will therefore be very important to strengthen home services in the years to come. It involves continuing the fight against the stopwatching gypsy that is still present in many municipalities. The Hagerup Committee delivered last year’s NOU Innovation in Care, reviewing both the need for and possible solutions for increased use of technology in care services. The committee proposes, inter alia: a Telecommunications button 2015 for increased use of welfare technologies. It is very important for the government to follow up the NOU in the future. Care plan 2015 is the Government's action plan to ensure that society is prepared to meet the challenges of the future. The stable period of the next 10 to 15 years will be used to gradually expand the service provision to meet the rapid growth in the number of older people over 80 years expected in 2025. The care plan has four main fields of action: 12,000 new Annual Work Competencelift 2015 Demen plan 2015 construction of 12,000 lucky day care places This plan also includes the development of a new municipal role, strengthening the competence of municipalities, and greater prevention of municipalities. A very central element is that municipalities should have freedom of priority. This can be done by strengthening the municipalities resourcefully. This is not done through the proposal under consideration. The aim here is to deprive municipalities of this opportunity through the state takeover of funding, price financing and the construction of a diagnosis and reporting bureaucracy. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e630	One of the most important and demanding welfare tasks for society in the coming years is to make sure that older people have a good and worthwhile life with good and adapted services for those who need it. Everyone shall be provided with care and assistance when necessary. Everyone should be able to use the potential to live an active and meaningful life. The Norwegian people are getting older. Many of us will be dire and up to a long time in retirement, but it is also the case that many will become nurturing or will need various forms of help and assistance. The main idea of care for the elderly must be that the diversity and inequalities represented by the older population are the starting point for policy-making. That's what this is, among other things. is about in the care plan 2015 and in the dignity guarantee. This is why we have made it possible for people to stay longer in work and also combine different forms of work and retirement. That is why we need to think about housing, activities and experiences, and about care, care and practical assistance. We are not very satisfied with the care of the elderly all over the country, sail if we have to stress that there is a lot of good work done in a lot of municipalities. Therefore, I would like to point out that the Stortinget has adopted a new law on municipal health and care services that underlines even more the municipal responsibility. The necessary health and care services, practical assistance and other assistance shall be provided to those who need it. Health care in nursing homes or in nursing homes as well as early work on benefits in individual homes shall be offered to older people. Good supervision of municipal health and care services shall ensure that this is carried out in a good and sound manner. It is the individual municipality that should and must be responsible for delivering a good care offer to its citizens. The municipalities have the best overview of the people living there, and they know what needs exist. State grants shall enable each municipality to become a good welfare producer for its inhabitants. We therefore do not believe that state price financing, as proposed by the proposers, is the way to go. Many have set out the Danish Fredericia model and the project «As far as possible in their own lives» as an example for follow-up. It's great that there are good practices in the home and abroad that we can learn from. At the same time, I would like to stress that the cooperation reform is precisely proposing the kind of solutions that the Fredericia model prescribes – the proximity and quality of services and action at the best effective level. Examples already exist in many places, for example: in the municipality of Storfjord in Troms, where assistance and practical assistance were provided in the homes of the elderly at such an early stage that the municipality has had a long-term surplus in hospital places – which has been offered to neighbouring municipalities. Finally, I would like to strike a blow for the government-appointed Hagen Committee and the report ‘Innovation in care’, which was presented last summer. Several interesting ideas for future care for the elderly are outlined here, which were also discussed by the case-rapporteur – innovation in housing design, family, friends, voluntary sector and public actors in interaction to care for older people, proper use of communication and welfare technology. This may prove to be the right grips in the care of the elderly, combined with a deep understanding that we are living, playful, spiritual and cultural creatures throughout life – from cradle to grave...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e645	For me personally this has been a heavy week. First of all, I lost my father at the nursing home on Sunday, and second, I am here today, when the Stortinget will deal with a comprehensive proposal from the Progress Party to put in place a progress plan to ensure an optional and dignified elderly care for everyone. It's a proposal I've been working on for a long time. I've been using my professional experience and my political experience for 30 years. In addition, we have put emphasis on all the recordings that the Progress Party has received from patients, relatives, employees, leaders and elected people, as well as numerous reports in the media on adverse events and unworthy circumstances that have been revealed in Norwegian care for the elderly. All of this has been clarified in the document in which we draw up 27 proposals for action that the Progress Party believes can contribute to better care for the elderly. In June last year, we promoted it and we ourselves wanted the Health and Welfare Committee to spend a good time on treatment, in the hope of agreeing on some of the measures needed to improve care for the elderly. Unfortunately, we feel that the government parties with a pen stroke reject all our proposals and declare them dead and buried. This also makes this a sad day. I had hoped that the government parties had realized that it was not a matter of care for the elderly, and that they would look at what we could do together. However, the parties to the government are closest to themselves. They claim that they have done what is necessary, both in the form of legislation and plans, that the appropriations they have given are sufficient, and that almost all that remains is to oversee the municipalities, so that the intentions of the law are realized. I'm 100 pst. I'm sure I have a lot of people with me in this country who know from their own experience, and who are going to experience, that the government is wrong. Where the Progress Party is occupied by the individual, the Government Parties are occupied by the system. What's happy is that we've got the Right and Christian People's Party on almost half of our proposals. It promises well for what can happen after 2013. If we look at the proposals made by the Progress Party, some of them are responsible for funding. We have had a continuous debate on the defects and deficiencies in the care of the elderly since the municipal health service law saw the light of day in the 1980s. It should be such that all citizens of the country are provided with adequate assistance for health, care and care services when the need arises, wherever they live in the country. But an equivalent offer is clearly not a government target. It is more concerned with developing the differences between its 429 municipalities, with reference to local self-government. The situation in the care of the elderly and the criticism of the provision of municipal services have not changed significantly in 30 years. A continuous under-financing of the municipal sector in relation to the tasks assigned to the municipalities, as well as the gap between the expectations created by central politicians in their election promises and the ability of the municipalities to deliver, creates great frustration. The Blackheart Game continues. In 1982, the Progress Party was alone in saying that hospitals had to become the responsibility of the state and that we had to get a priced financing system. We wanted a general, national body and pointed to a hospital directorate. 20 years later, hospitals became the responsibility of the state. We got input-driven funding in place, and in these days the debate goes on about a general, national body responsible for hospitals. So we could say that it's going forward step by step, but it's going incredibly small. Similarly, we now see that we are alone in wanting government funding for municipal health and care services. We have such funding for disability pensions, sickness benefits, unemployment benefits and old age pensions, but government parties claim that the corresponding funding system is impossible in the case of sick elderly people. The reason they're saying is the older ones are so different. Well, I've met many disabled, sick, unemployed and many pensioners. I don't think they're that similar, either. To me, they're all unique individuals with different needs. The law says today that everyone should be assured ‘necessary health care’. The government parties use it as an argument and lean back. The challenge lies in the fact that municipalities themselves make the assessment and provide the definition of what health care is needed. We know that this is why there are no official waiting lists for a sick home, because the municipalities are actually breaking the law if they believe that a patient needs a sick home and that such a place is not available. That's why we don't get the real need for nursing homes on the table either. We do not get flexible solutions that ensure that each sick old person is offered at the best effective level of care. The municipality seeks to provide the necessary health care at a lower level of care, knowing that the supervisory authorities would charge the relationship if it had become known to them. But who dares complain when one goes and waits and hopes to get in the queue first to the next available hospital place? It is not felt safe to deal with the allocation authority in such a situation. This is one of the unworthinesss we in the Progress Party will end with our proposals here today, but the government parties want everything to continue as before. We also want a rice behind the mirror for the municipalities that those who need a sick place and do not get it will be able to get 1000 kroner a day from the municipality, and that older people who have to share room against their will will will have to pay half a price. These are measures that could pressure municipalities to fulfil the commitments made by a total of nine health ministers, but also here the government will only continue as before. The Progress Party suggests making changes to the remuneration regulation, because we see that it can get very unfortunate results, as we saw in a headline in the Newspaper, where we talked about municipal government and showed a person who was close to losing the house as a consequence. On 11 November last year, the Minister of Health said in reply to Mr Hoksrud, the Board of the Progress Party, that she would review the remuneration regulation. Ten days later, such a review is not mentioned in a word, it refers only to proceeds calculations. Three weeks later, on 16 December, the government adopts regulation on the abstinence of municipal health and care services, and the old remuneration regulation is history. For me, this is a sign of a government that does not take the Storting seriously. Unfortunately, the new regulation will also lead to people risking having to leave their homes, and I have already received signals that ready-to-print minimum pensioners cannot afford to accept training at the local medical centre, but have to thank self-training and assistance from a free home nurse. But to remove such unsocial outcomes in the remuneration regulation is also in opposition to the government parties. Arne Strand in the newspaper has asked us to shout so loudly about this that it is heard all the way to the government quarter. I will not call here in the Chamber, but I will immediately ask the Council of State and the Government parties to look at proposal No. One more time. In the setting, the Progress Party points out that for 25 years we have been provided with evidence through various research reports and documentation that the necessary health care is not provided by the municipalities, as required by the law. Older people are being shelled down and over-medicated and suffer major side effects. Over 25 years, authorities have expressed concern, the government has claimed to focus on the problem. But it doesn't help much just standing and staring, it has to take action. When it appears that poor medical coverage and care coverage are essential reasons for these alarming findings, the Progress Party has proposed the introduction of manning standards in order to ensure adequate professional competence. The result of the government’s rejection is that researchers and journalists can still get their sensational answers. The losers are again the sick elderly. Imperty only continues with this government. The quality regulation and the guarantee of dignity are what must ensure the framework for care. We see that these regulations are broken every day. The nurses’ association has carried out an investigation showing that about 40 pst. the advice and rapporteurs do not have sufficient information on the quality of the healthcare provided by the municipality to its citizens. Local politicians adopt budgets without knowing what is required by law and regulation and what is actually delivered. We hear about municipalities that say that the law and regulations are a goal they will pursue, and we hear about municipalities that wait for the law. So this is not going to be dealt with by the government. The elderly get hurt, and unworthiness continues. It's delicious to be Norwegian in Denmark, it's called in advertising. The progress party has been in Denmark several times, and we feel that Denmark has come much further in developing a good care for the elderly than we have here in the country, despite our oil wealth. It's all about the approximation of the individual. The Progress Party has previously made proposals on the Lotte model and has introduced it in several municipalities where we have come into position. A year ago we were also in Fredericia because we had heard about good patient conduct and about a model that was a win-win-win situation – for the elderly, for the employees and for the municipality. We met a system that took the individual's needs seriously. The municipality put in place comprehensive measures as soon as it was notified of the need for assistance. Everyday rehabilitation was central. The staff ranged from home help to home assistance, which resulted in the need for accommodation. At the same time, it was emphasised that those who needed a sick home place got it when the need was there. So last June's progress party put forward proposals for this. The municipal minister was in Denmark a year later and also had a positive experience. In the evening post on February 6th this year, Navarsete says that: ‘Norway will not be able to handle the wave of old age without following the Danes. [[...]] We have to be honest. I know that it will arouse debate and that I will have criticism.’ So the Council of State is responsible for the service providers, which says this. Unfortunately, there is no indication of such recognition by the Ministry of Health or the members of the Health and Care Committee of the Government Parties. A conversion as they have done in Denmark requires much more than that it can be done by municipalities within the current framework. It has to be a means of conversion. But the government parties are against it. Unfortunately, the lack of support for constructive proposals to improve care for the elderly also leads us to see in the future such unworthy and inhuman lookouts as we saw on NRK New Tuesday with the forced movement of a deadly man in labor party-run Elverum. With this, I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party that promote alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e699	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has mentioned the 26 proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e702	The right-hand objective is to provide good quality care to all those who need it. The most important thing is to strengthen quality through increased skills, multiple doctors, nurses and caregivers. Several hospitals and nursing homes need to be developed. Right? The elderly think they're old enough to decide for themselves, and we'll fight for their right to freedom of choice and influence over their own lives even if they're in need of help. But good care for the elderly is not just a matter of quantity; it is at least equally important to ensure good quality. Older people and caregivers are entitled to the necessary health care in the same way as everyone else, and that right should go as far as the need is concerned. A new law on municipal health and care services has been adopted which states that the municipality should ensure that all residents of the municipality are provided with adequate and necessary health and care services. But it does not help how much legislation we adopt here at Stortinget, unless the municipalities follow up their responsibilities. There is a lot of good in the care of the elderly. Thousands of skilled health workers make a great effort every day to provide those who need it with a good and worthwhile offer. Unfortunately, there are repeatedly large gaps in some care services, both through supervisory reports, through the stories of the elderly and their relatives, and through research and surveys in the media. Care in the final phase of life is one of the most demanding tasks in healthcare, challenging both professionals and politicians. Respect for human dignity is put to serious testing by politicians, health services and health professionals. Human dignity is especially vulnerable to being violated or threatened at the end of life. Let me give you an example of this. In recent days it has been revealed through the media that trauma, cancer and dying Sverre Østby from Eidsvoll were adopted against his and his family's will from safe and good surroundings in the hospital where he has had his home for the past two years, to another hospital. In addition to the feeling of having a dying man and father, the wife and daughter have had to fight an intense fight with the municipality in order for him to be there in the final phase of life. They themselves had to physically prevent the ambulance staff from taking him when they came to pick him up. Such a senseless treatment of a mortal man and his closest relative is insurgent and not to understand. It bears witness to a municipality where system and ruleriding are put in front of the individual's wishes and needs. There is a lack of respect and feeling – yes, simply pointless. The municipality has now, after the media releases, postponed the move for a few weeks, but the rapporteur from the Labour Party says that they stand firm on the decision to move him and that there are not enough arguments for Eastby to escape. I'm being upset about such a treatment. I do not doubt that Østby would also have good care and care at the other hospital, but that is not what this is all about. It is about taking into account the wishes and needs of individuals and relatives and showing respect and humanity at a vulnerable stage in life. It's outrageous that relatives have to go to the media to get their loved ones a good, safe and dignified end of life. I present this story as one of very many examples of violations of central patient and user rights and the Health and Welfare Act – in addition to the so-called dignity guarantee. In some areas, care for the elderly remains a long way off. The right-hand side supports several of the proposals that have been put forward, as indicated in the vote, inter alia. to make a change to the Law on Public Health in Municipalities, in order to introduce an offer to carry out preventive home visits to people over 75 years of age who wish to do so. We believe that this will be a good investment for the elderly and their safety and health. We also want to strengthen the clinical nutrition competence of the municipalities. There's a great need for that. Both those living in nursing homes and those living in their homes who live in their homes and those who live in their homes will enjoy it, not least it will have a health benefit. The right supports the proposal to introduce a certificate of good conduct for persons working with the elderly in the care sector, following a model from a requirement for a certificate of good conduct for persons working with children and persons with a mental retardation. In conclusion, the right does not support the proposal of the Progress Party to transfer the responsibility for the financing of the care of the elderly from the municipality to the state through the public interest. In order for care services to be as efficient as possible, municipalities must be guaranteed the freedom to meet these needs. By providing framework grants, municipalities may also make the necessary priorities in the overall provision of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e733	In this case, the opposition makes 27 different proposals for voluntary and dignified care for the elderly. I will first address what is perhaps the most extreme proposal, simply to transfer the financial responsibility for the care of the elderly from the municipalities to the state through popularism. The centre party is completely overconfident that a regulation of responsibility for the care of the elderly will lead to a poorer service. Parental care must be provided where the elderly cages and those responsible for the provision must be in close proximity to the services. A regulation of responsibility will lead to more bureaucracy, greater distance between users and those who decide, and the supply will be difficult to tailor to the needs of the individual municipality. It's as unnatural to take care of the elderly away from the municipalities as it would have been to lay down the foundation. The central party believes that local self-government is one of the most fundamental values in Norwegian society. The centre party was in its time also opposed to the regulation of hospitals. Several parties say that there is a democratic deficit in that sector today. I think we have to avoid making the same mistakes in the care of the elderly. The state is, as you know, no nice uncle. There are proposals to change the funding system so that the money follows the user, and to implement a system of payments in the institutional services, which, as I understand it, can be compared to DRG coding and unit price financing in the specialist services. This will require a very comprehensive bureaucracy. We will have a reporting system in line with the Progress Party's criticism of hospital policy. This form of funding will not promote preventive measures. It might rather promote institutional use. Real competition between providers is required in order to function, and in the smallest municipalities this is an illusion. The fact that users are free to choose between providers is a good thing, but experience shows that such schemes can easily affect the most vulnerable and sickest users. Free hospital choices know we work best for those with high incomes and high education. It can reinforce the social health differences of older people. Increased market thinking in the municipal health service is not the way to improve quality and ensure the quality of care for the elderly. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State has responded well to the various other proposals made by the proposers. I don't want to go into each one, but I think there's a reason to remind you that Norway compares to many other countries have a well-developed public care system, with well-developed housing services and a high level of institutional facilities. The centre party is concerned that in the future we must do what we can to prevent disease and disease deterioration, and that the public effort must take place primarily where the elderly live and will live, simply in the world. We're going to build more sick places for the new elderly, but we won't be able to build ourselves out of the so-called wave of the elderly. Strengthening the quality of supply and not just focusing on capacity is also important. Particular concern is the reports on missing drug treatment and overmedication routines for the elderly and the major problem of malnutrition that one has in many places. There are proposed crew standards for hospitals. I can understand that this is being discussed. But I think it's just as important to look at the specialist training for lizards, so that it pays to work as a medical doctor – that it becomes a specialty or part of a specialty. There is also reason to be concerned about the lack of recruitment of health professionals. Yesterday, a report came to show that the decline in this education is so enormous that in order to develop a new health worker, we need ten elephants. In the future, parental care requires not only more public hands, but also voluntary hands. A better policy for relatives who want to take care of their families is needed. The centre party looks forward to the government's handling of the Kaasa selection's report, when true is said about care for relatives, and the NoU innovation in care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e754	The Christian People's Party's commitment to a better old age comes from the human vision that underpins the party's policy – that all people have inviolable human dignity. It's all about life, regardless of age and functionality. Basic needs, both physical, mental, social and spiritual, must be met. Everyone must be sure that they are provided with the health and care services they need. Municipal care services shall provide care for the elderly who ensure a decent life and a meaningful life for the individual recipient according to their individual needs. The provision of services shall be established in compliance with the individual’s right of self-determination, self-worth and conduct of life and shall also ensure that medical needs are met. Care shall also contribute to habilitation and rehabilitation, professionally sound follow-up of doctors or other relevant personnel ensuring continuity of treatment, and shall provide senior citizens living in a health institution with exclusive spaces. Regulation on the guarantee of dignity entered into force on 1 January 2011. It was precisely designed to ensure what is the main theme of this representative’s proposal, that care for the elderly is organised in such a way that older people have a worthwhile, safe and meaningful old age. It was then very disappointing that the government did not follow up the guarantee of dignity as provided when it submitted proposals for a new law on municipal health and care services. As most people in this room are familiar with, the government in the bill believed that the legal status of the elderly should be continued at the level of the day, and so it was. But the intention of the entire guarantee of dignity was that the legal status of the elderly should be strengthened, thus ensuring a reinforced service offer. Strengthened rights for the elderly are a prerequisite for better quality of care for the elderly. Shortly after the guarantee of dignity entered into force, there were reports of a breach of the guarantee. The figures from the State Health Authority show that about 50 p.m. by those who bring complaints against the municipality in respect of the right to the necessary health care, are fully or partly in agreement with the complaint. If the guarantee of dignity is to serve as a real guarantee, adequate manning and good competence are required. Elder care must therefore be provided with sufficient resources. Here is the Christian People’s Party with a good example. For the 2012 budget, in our alternative draft budget, we increased the appropriations for the municipalities by 1 billion. kr, just to improve the quality of care for the elderly. It is also an objective that individuals can live in their own homes for as long as possible. It promotes both independence and independence. Many older people want this for themselves, as long as they are confident that they will receive the help they need when the need arises. It is when people get too sick that they feel safe at home, that there is a need for a sick home, and then the sick home place has to be ready. The fact that some municipalities have a surplus of nursing homes, as the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen pointed out, is excellent. That's great, but today it's probably more of an exception than a rule. We receive regular news reports about the elderly who do not get sick home because the municipality they live in does not have enough space. The threshold for sick leave has become higher and higher. Nor are there any statistics on the number of people waiting in hospital or in nursing homes. I have visited several municipalities after the Interaction Reform came into force at the end of the year. The municipalities were then responsible for patients who were ready-to- print. What many municipalities are doing now is using short-term places in hospitals for patients who are outsourced from hospitals. This leads to the disappearance of relief, which, in my view, is contrary to the intentions of the Cooperation Reform. This is worrying, and I hope this is a matter that the Council of State can address in its dialogue with the municipalities. Finally, the Christian People's Party supports several of the individual proposals in the proposal for a representative, but disagrees with the funding mechanism proposed by the Progress Party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e775	The proposers put forward 27 proposals which they believe will ensure an optional and dignified elderly care for all. The proposers consider that extensive system changes are necessary in order to meet the challenges of the future. The supporting proposal in the document is to transfer the financial responsibility for the care of the elderly from the municipalities and to the state through the public interest. This will involve a drastic shift in the principles of financing municipal care services. I do not share the belief of the proposers that the transfer of financial responsibility will in itself lead to some improvement in the offer or improve the quality of the care sector – on the contrary. In my opinion, today's system leads to the provision of services that are best suited to the needs of users, i.e. a system in which municipalities are responsible both for providing services and for financing them. Many elderly people have multiple diagnostics and a varying level of function. Service providers must be close to the individual user. I trust that it is the municipalities that can best assess the needs of the users at any time, although it is also clear that, as the proposers were very concerned about, we see failure in the care of the elderly and need to strengthen and improve it where it is carried out today. In my opinion, the current framework financing model is the best starting point for ensuring good partnership between municipalities, relatives and voluntary sectors. We will develop this partnership further. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with the government that care services will continue to be anchored in the municipalities in the future. It is the municipalities that know their citizens best, and that are the closest to assessing what kind of services are needed. We are all followers of freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is best ensured by the fact that each user has good choices to choose from. The most important thing is to build safe and good public services. At the same time, we need to ensure real user involvement. It implies that users must have power, influence and information, so that they can choose between different offers. On a general basis, I would say that the right-wing attachment is not the way to go. In this case, the question of the need for services will be removed from the user and the service provider and from the legal entity. Pleasure-seeking people must have the best possible range of services. We agree on that. Over 170,000 employees are making a huge effort to get this done. In my opinion, we get the best quality by giving enough money to the municipalities, and by investing in professional development and interaction with the users. The municipalities have been given a significant economic boost in our reign. The growth in the number of annual shifts in the care service also shows that municipalities take responsibility. Growth in free income has increased efforts in the care sector. Each year, significant resources are allocated to improve the capacity, competence and quality of care services, through the 2015 care plan. Representatives have many proposals for prevention measures. This is an important area of activity and a key element of the Cooperation Reform. However, municipalities must decide for themselves which prevention measures they will focus on. This can be preventive home visits to all over 75 years of age, or organising the efforts of the Danish Fredericia model. Here, older people are given help for self-help so that they can stay at home longer. The development of new technologies in the care sector is important. The Hagen committee handed over the report Innovation in care in the autumn. The report contains a number of exciting suggestions on how to meet the challenges of care services. The report has been widely consulted and will be followed up appropriately. The point is that changes in the way of organising services have to come from below. This is best ensured with today’s model – by the responsibility of municipalities for both further development and funding of care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e802	The Progress Party supports proposals for preventive home visits by people over 75 years of age. A well-documented attempt from Denmark from 1985 showed that such a measure provided better quality of life, better functioning, fewer hospitalisations and reduced mortality, leading to Denmark’s statutory home visits as early as 1995. In Norway, we seem to reinvent the wheel, with three-year pilot project, methodology testing, etc. Does the Council of State think that Nordics are so different from Danes that it is not possible to learn any of the Danish success stories in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e809	It is not that the Nordics are so very different from the Danes. Although we're quite different about geography, we're not different than humans, I totally agree with that. I think having a home visit is a very good idea and a very good step for a lot of people. The question is whether to legislate this for absolutely all over 75 years. In fact, I think it is quite important that municipalities themselves focus on the prevention measures they intend to implement, which I fully agree with, that more efforts should be made to ensure that more people are able to do well at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e816	As the previous question was raised, Denmark has introduced a statutory offer of home visits to all those who have reached the age of 75. In the evening post on 6 February, Commissioner Navarsete also calls for a statutory offer to everyone on home visits to carry out a health check and assessment of needs when one is 75 years old. When the Minister of State in a government believes that it makes sense to legislate an obligation for the municipalities to have such an offer, what is it that prevents the Minister of Health from introducing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e823	I think I responded to what I think about this with a home visit. I believe that in many ways it is a very good idea to help the elderly to cope better. It is then asked whether this is where prevention efforts are to be deployed, if there is no flow of resources – and the municipalities also need to give priority to their personnel for resource reasons. Do you have to do this for absolutely everyone over 75 years? Are you going to go somewhere, or are some municipalities going to choose to do this? In Norway, municipalities have also chosen to focus on home visits. I think it's very positive. Whether it's 75 years or 80 years – I think that a lot of 75-year-olds are very talky and don't need home visits from the municipality, but a lot of people do. Here, municipalities must be able to assess what they want to focus on prevention, because I very much agree that prevention is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e830	A recent study by the Norwegian Nursing Association shows that, in fact, staffing in nursing homes is not the real issue in terms of the professional competence of those who are at work. There are fewer skilled workers and fewer nurses at work. It may have to do with not getting involved in skilled temporary workers. We have a hugely high level of sick leave in the health care sector. When, through the cooperation reform, the government also introduced professional neutrality, it suggests that this is not necessarily wrong, that you would like to have a crew that would require quite a few, perhaps no, skilled workers at work. I think that's very worrying. My question to the Council of State, which has said in the past that this should be followed closely with professional neutrality, is then: Will this issue also be taken into account when considering whether to introduce a regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e839	Prosperity neutrality does not mean poor quality. That doesn't mean that we don't have requirements for safety. On the contrary, what really characterises the new law is that there is a requirement for soundness and quality. And we know that having professionals at work is important. It is clear that it is worrying when you are in some places without the right professional competence. You can only take one matter as the handling of drugs, which is very important in the hospitals, where the supervision of the Health Inspectorate has shown that it is one of the areas where there are the most broken and where you are also most vulnerable. So having professionalism and quality is crucial. We will follow this very closely, because it is clear that having the opportunity to organise yourself individually in the municipalities does not mean that we should not have requirements for professionalism and soundness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e848	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e863	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e872	Now we are going to consider a proposal from Bent Höie, Sonja Irene Sjøli and Michael Tetzschner to strengthen patients' rights in setting a deadline for treatment and in the event of a breach of the treatment deadline. The proposal is presented by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. It is proposed that the government prepare a provision for the Patient Rights Act § 2-1 which ensures that the patient, while setting an individual time limit for treatment, is also provided with information on the time and place of treatment and which ensures that the healthcare provider responsible for providing health care is also obliged to inform HELFO immediately if the individual treatment period cannot be met, and that HELFO is then responsible for providing the patient with a treatment offer. The patient shall be informed in an intelligible manner and so as to enhance the possibility of the patient’s rights being respected. The Committee is divided into the section, but a joint committee shares the concerns of the proposers that neither the practice of the current system in setting individual deadlines nor the call for legislation in the event of a breach of the deadline for the necessary health care function properly. Everyone agrees. The Council of State — in a letter of 9 November 2011 — also expresses the view that it shares the reality of the proposers. The Councils of State point out, inter alia: there is a need to review, and probably improve, the legislation on setting individual deadlines and convening patients. Furthermore, the Council of State points out that the Department is now investigating different alternatives to new legislation that is appropriate for all patient courses. The proposal from the representatives that, at the same time as setting an individual time limit for treatment, information on the time and place of treatment will also be provided will be considered in this work. The Government Parties point to the setting of this process, initiated by the Ministry, and state that such a review is necessary. Therefore, the Government Parties are limited to meeting the conclusions of this work and propose that the document be annexed to the Protocol. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party point out that the League also supports the proposal. The medical association believes that these measures will contribute to greater equal accessibility to specialist health services and to reducing social inequalities in health, as well as contribute to more efficient flow of information and improved treatment processes, even when the individual treatment deadline is not met. The three opposition parties point out that the healthcare system should be designed in such a way as to ensure that all patients receive the treatment they are both entitled to and entitled to, and that legislation and procedures need to be adapted to the major differences between the patient’s capacity and the ability to assert their rights — as also underlined in the Medical Association consultation notes to the Committee. I take this up with me the proposal that the minority has put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e891	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e894	Based on the Patient Rights Act, patients who need it are given an individual deadline for hospital treatment. If the treatment period is interrupted, the healthcare administration assumes responsibility for providing the patient with the necessary health care, and the patient should be informed of this. The proposers believe that there is an excessive barrier to the exercise of this right. This leads, in the opinion of the proposers, to the main benefit of the right for patients with a high level of resources. Furthermore, the proposers believe that today’s system can work badly and that it will simplify the procedure if the patient is informed about the time and place of treatment at the same time as the deadline is set. The proposers also believe that it should be the hospital’s responsibility to contact the health economy administration when the hospital knows that it is not able to enforce the right to treatment within the medical deadline. An overall committee shares the concern of the proposers that neither the practice of the present system in setting an individual deadline nor the practice of the legislation in the event of a breach of time limits is working properly. An overall committee therefore refers to the wording of the letter of the Minister of Health of 9 November 2011, stating that she shares the reality of the proposals as expressed in the dossier, both in terms of the practicalisation of the current system of setting individual deadlines and in terms of the practice of the legislation in the event of a breach of the deadline for necessary health care. The Committee has noted that the Minister of Health and Welfare in the letter points to the need to review and probably improve the legislation in this respect. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the Ministry is now examining different options for new legislation appropriate to all patient courses. The proposal from the representatives that, at the same time as setting the individual deadline, information on the time and place of treatment will also be provided will be considered in this work. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre note that the proposal that the hospital should be informed immediately of a breach of the right of self-determination of the patients, and that it may be problematic under conditions of professional secrecy, could be broken. The majority of the parties refer to the letter of the Council of State, which states that work has already been undertaken to review the matters covered by this proposal for a representative. We believe that such a review is necessary and welcome the conclusions of the work. On this basis, the majority would recommend that the document be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e917	The size of the population deals with many issues to ensure good health care for our citizens. Today, when we consider another proposal to strengthen patients' rights in response to the Norwegian health system, this shows the differences between the system thinkers on the left and those of us who are concerned with the individuals, the patients, on the other hand. Again, an overall opposition shows an alternative course for the Norwegian health care system, a course that hopefully becomes the policy in force in the Kingdom after 2013. For me, it is a paradox when an overall opposition proposes simple proposals for patients to have faster and better access to information on how long the waiting period is expected to be, and not least where to get the fastest treatment. When an overall opposition in the Stortinget supports a free-hospital choice system, we do not understand with our best will how it is possible to vote against a proposal that would provide patients with more detailed information as a background for understanding their choices. Furthermore, it is worth noting – as also the representative of the Medical Association was at hand – that the proposals promoted by the opposition could help to mitigate social inequalities in healthcare and contribute to a more equal availability of specialist healthcare. The fact that parties who normally claim that they fight for less differences, vote against proposals that the trade unions experience will reduce the differences among people most, is incomprehensible to me. Are equivalent health services, regardless of where you live, what you earn, and who your parents are, just a speck? Not for the Progress Party, not for the opposition and the bourgeois parties, but for the red-greens it unfortunately appears more and more like rhetoric and slogans. I have also noticed that the Chairman of the Board of Health South-East, Bente Mikkelsen, in the Evening Post on 8 September 2011 stated: ‘That is why patients must report to their treatment staff if they do not receive a call or find that deadlines are not met.’ Without discussing the context of the opinion, I should be careful to point out that this shows that the system is not working properly, and that it is unsustainable that it is the patient's responsibility to keep track of, reminders and follow-up of the health care system, because routines are not being carried out. In addition, this is an expression of the same attitudes that we record with health professionals who believe that waiting lists are order servers – and to one in this room who got to say that you have lucrative disorders. This kind of statement says a lot, yes too much. The progress party will put patients ahead of the systems. For us, the systems are an instrument and not a goal. We therefore hope that the Minister of Health will be more benevolent than the Red-Green politicians at Stortinget have proved to be, thus helping to secure the intentions of the proposal through the Patient Rights Act. I hope on behalf of the patients that the government parties do what they have done several times in the past, namely to promote the proposals even after they have voted them down in the Stortinget. For us, the offer is the most important thing, and if the government subsequently proposes this, it's actually good. But some have not been granted their patient rights because political tactics are more important to this government than to patients. I just want to quote the suggestions to illustrate what you're actually saying no to today. The first proposal is: ‘(a) that, at the same time as setting an individual time limit for treatment, the patient is also provided with information on the time and place of treatment’. Getting that information means the red-greens by saying no today is not necessary. Furthermore, it is proposed that: «(b) that the health undertaking responsible for providing health care is also required to inform HELFO immediately if the individual time limit cannot be met». And that's what you say no to today. Two more solar rights that would improve patient rights in Norway are denied.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e960	The President would point out that the term 'flake' may not be specifically termed 'parliamentary'.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e963	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for the job and the presentation, which went through the proposals and what the opposition is all about, and for the support of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party for these proposals. If you order an air trip or a train trip, I think most of us expect us to have a departure time, a date and an hour to deal with. So we do the same thing if we order an hour at our dentist's office or order an hour at our pet with a veterinarian: one gets an hour and one hour. But if a patient is so seriously suffering that one has the right to an individual deadline for treatment, most people get a letter in the post that tells them that in a month's time, or the month they're going to come in, they will get a call at some point in the nearest hospital. There is no reason why one should not be able to get an exact time to deal with it and thus know when to go to treatment, and not least know if one's right is being followed up. This proposal should be entirely unproblematic for the majority of the Grand Duchy to join. Both Health West and Health Mid-Norway are already implementing this as a scheme in their health businesses. Then you could say, well, that's positive! When will this happen? But when the Storting vote this proposal today, it means once again that a new inequality is created in Health-Norway by the fact that in a short time this is likely to be a right that applies to patients who live in some health regions, but not to patients who live in others. The second proposal relates to the fact that one of the majorities has granted some rights that are important for those patients suffering from severe suffering, namely to have an individual medical deadline. This was a battle cause for the bourgeois parties for many years, and the rights were introduced when one got a bourgeois government. Experience suggests that the scheme is important. It's good, but it leads to some differences, namely between those who follow up their rights, make contact with HELFO, find out about this system, and those who don't do it for different reasons. But there is no doubt that knowledge of the system, a well-defined level of education and education, etc., is important if you're actually fulfilling your rights. It is very special that you have a statutory right as one so much as has to take responsibility for being followed up. It's something you don't know from other areas of our public welfare community. Clearly, it would be right for the healthcare company to be obliged to enforce the law and also responsible for informing HELFO when it is unable to enforce it, so that HELFO can immediately start work on alternative treatment elsewhere — in a public or private hospital in Norway or abroad, as is the case for the patient. Using the patient's right of self-determination and confidentiality as an argument against this system, we believe to use arguments that do not hold. It is fully possible for the Storting to make any adjustments to the law and for the Government to adjust regulations to ensure that these are taken into account, e.g.: by providing patients – if there are any patients in this country who want to reserve themselves against such a scheme – with an opportunity to say no, I will not be helped further to a treatment. It seems something special, but maybe this patient exists, and then it should be possible to care for it. If one doesn't, one will continue with a system that builds up under a health care system with larger social divisions. One shouldn't do that. One should vote in favour of these proposals. But again, as also the representative Olsen said: this case shows that there is a political distinction in Norway between the bourgeois parties, today's opposition parties, which have always gone ahead and fought for patients' rights, and today's government parties, which have always fought for the system and the system's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e991	The most important thing for me is that every patient in Norway receives the best possible treatment when they need it. In order to achieve this, we need to have legislation that supports good and sound patient conduct. We need to ensure that the legislation works in practice and that healthcare complies with the applicable laws and regulations. However, the legislation shall not replace the health assessments. Today’s system, introduced in 2004, to set individual deadlines and to summon patients, does not work well enough. I share the views of the proposers. There is a need to review the legislation and develop a better system. In the consultation note to the new law on municipal health and care services, the Ministry also raised questions as to whether the relevant provisions of the Patient Rights Act adequately address this objective. Following the summary of the hearing opinions, the Ministry has found a basis for further consideration of these provisions. This was notified in the new Health and Care Services Act. It is difficult to establish a regulatory framework to suit all types of patient trajectory. The Ministry is therefore investigating several options. We will also consider the proposal to provide the patient with information on the time and place of treatment while providing them with an individual deadline. Nor is the regulatory framework for failure to comply with the deadline for necessary health care applied satisfactorily. Regional health establishments are responsible for providing patients in the region of residence with the necessary health care. This obligation also applies after the time limit laid down individually has been broken. If it appears that the healthcare provider cannot fulfil the right within this period, the undertaking is obliged to provide the patient with another treatment offer, public or private. It may be done by the health undertaking itself or by HELFO. HELFO is obliged to assist the patient in the fulfilment of the right from the time when the time limit is broken. This does not mean, however, that the responsibility of healthcare companies for providing treatment does not go away. I am not satisfied with how regional health companies have followed up this obligation. I therefore see that there is a need to clarify this responsibility even more. Health undertakings are also obliged to ensure that the patient is provided with the information necessary to safeguard his rights, and not least in order to carry out his treatment in the best possible way. The information shall be appropriate to the patient’s assumptions and shall be provided in a manner that the patient can understand. It does not believe that the patient is given a general rewriting of rights when granting an individual deadline for priority healthcare. If the undertaking is unable to obtain the necessary treatment by the deadline, it must inform the patient accordingly without delay. Furthermore, the patient must be informed of the consequences and of his rights in this regard. Good information is essential to enable patients to exercise their rights. In 2010, there were also questions about patients getting good enough information about patients’ rights from hospitals. I found it necessary to clarify this responsibility towards the regional health companies in a letter dated 20 September 2010. The responsibility for providing health care lies, as I said, with regional health businesses even after the individual deadline has been broken. That's still the way it has to be. HELFO is an offer to the patient that he can choose to use. The fact that the patient has an offer to receive assistance from HELFO does not relieve regional health companies of their responsibilities. It should also be the patient himself who decides whether to involve HELFO. I will follow up with the regional health companies that current legislation is to be complied with and will assess whether there is a need to change the legislation in order to make it more patient-friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1019	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1022	In fact, I do not doubt the intentions of the Council of State, but both from the red-green parties in this Chamber and from the letter from the Council of State, it is stressed that we are going to review the regulatory framework. In the post that we just heard, there was a need to review, look at, have hearings and also have some investigations. Then I have a question, and I am going to focus on the first part of the proposal from the opposition where it says that the patient, while he is told that he is going to hospital, will also get information about the time and place – which hospital and when. My question to the Council of State will then be: How long and how many investigations do you need to find out if it would have been an advantage if the patient also got a hold of which hospital and when he is going to have his operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1030	It is always beneficial for the patient to receive good information — as early as possible, preferably on the first visit — about the entire course of treatment. Equally, it's pretty complicated to make completely simple rules for this, because it can be complex states. It's not like ordering a train trip, as the representative Höie said in his post. It's not always that it's as simple. That is why we have started a work for this. We notified it in connection with the law on the new municipal health and care services law, because we see that the information and the system that is today does not necessarily work well enough. But it is extensive to make changes to this. We've started a work in the Health Directorate, we're going to go through and look at the passage times for how long it takes to get away from the references, how the information is given, etc. And then we'll keep working on this, because of course we want the individual patient to get as good information as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1035	While the directorate works, both Health West and Health Mid-Norway are in the process of introducing this into their health regional requirements. What is the reason why the Storing is not to be agreed today that this is an objective that we require the government to work to apply to all health businesses, so that patients in Norway receive a similar offer, which was the main purpose of the major health reform in which the State was given responsibility for the specialist health service? Here the opposition is asking the government to create a regulation that will ensure that this is the case throughout the country. What is the reason why the Council of State recommends its party colleagues to vote against this proposal today, when the Council of State clearly agrees that this should be the result?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1040	I agree that the system doesn't work anywhere well enough today. In some cases, it does, and I'm very happy for those who are working on this particular issue, to provide patients with good information is absolutely crucial. When I saw how bad information you got, for example. with a breach of the deadline for treatment in 2010, at least I did what I could to improve the information for patients. Then we see that this creates confusion – that you have individual deadlines, that it is an assessment deadline, and that we are also working on getting good treatment. All these things must be seen in the context. The goal is to make it easier, better for patients and more predictable, so that they know what they have to deal with when they have a disorder and need treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1047	I think the Minister of Health is making this extremely difficult – yes, it sounds like it's very difficult. If we all want the patient to know the place of treatment and the time of treatment – I really feel that the Minister of Health also wants it and believes that it would be right to do so – then it must be so that we can make that decision here in Stortinget and say: Yes, we do, and then we go home and fix the legislation in relation to it. So it's completely incomprehensible to me that you have to figure out first, and then you have to see if you're going to do it anyway. It's totally unbelievable! What's the problem, Minister of Health? Is it not possible to say yes to this, and then we go home, and then we arrange the legislation so that it does not conflict with the obligation of professional secrecy, so that it is not problematic with regard to the right of self-determination? That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1052	Given the Davøy background, it's a little strange that she doesn't see that this is a little different, that you can't do this as streamlined as it is, for example. is to order a train ticket or an aeroplane ticket. So I'm very concerned that we have to do this better. I fully agree with the rapporteurs, but this proposal leaves some responsibility to HELFO to some extent. I'm against it. I believe that it should still be the responsibility of hospitals – i.e. regional health companies – to give the right treatment to patients. However, I am concerned that the information should be improved, that the process of treatment should be more predictable. That is why we have worked on this in connection with cancer – which has been much discussed, much discussed in Stortinget – and that is why we are also concerned about getting an information system for the patient, which everyone understands can be good for the patient further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1059	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1075	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1084	This Document 8 proposes to provide a level playing field for private enterprises and public operators in municipal care services. Good public Community solutions are a prerequisite for ensuring that the entire population is provided with equivalent health and care services — independent of social, economic and geographical conditions. Experience from countries with privatisation and market management of important welfare areas has clearly shown that this leads to inequalities and undesirable differences in the population. It is therefore very important to ensure that we have good public shared solutions in the healthcare sector, so that all citizens are guaranteed equivalent and good services. Then we agree that private providers, especially non-profit actors, are an important complement in the health and care sector. We also agree that it is important to have a good and predictable framework for actors cooperating with the public to provide different welfare services. Therefore, the government has set up more flexible framework conditions with more long-term government acquisitions. An overall committee agrees to this. It is particularly gratifying that the government will strengthen cooperation with non-profit actors and that the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs will continue the dialogue with NPISHs with a view to concluding a cooperation agreement on general principles for even better cooperation in the future. In the report "Innovation in Care", mentioned earlier today, as presented by the government-designated Hagen Committee in 2011, ideal and voluntary actors are mentioned as particularly important partners for future public care services. The proposers behind this document 8 take a lot of time to highlight women entrepreneurs. I think that's great. Women's founding is very important for us to have good welfare services. But I'm going to go straight to the right-wing party's assumption that women's foundation is reserved for private commercial business. In fact, there is a wonderfully good start-up of the many women who are swinging in public and non-profit welfare production. It is women's foundation at its best when eight municipalities in Vestfold introduce new interaction technologies in municipal care and care. It is women's start-up and good innovation when the National Centre for Interaction and Telemedicine has got its impact on the care sector in all the municipalities of the University Hospital North Norway to develop a common ICT platform, where you can communicate digitally with both the primary health service and the specialist health service in the region. And it's female foundership of the best mark when industrious cultural women in Tromsø are developing a music project that is now going to cooperate with municipal care for the elderly, and where the task is to care for and develop demented people's cognitive residual abilities. As you know, music is a well-suited tool to do just that. On the other hand, I find it a little difficult to see that the female entrepreneurs are talking so much about, particularly in a regime of extensive privatisation and outsourcing of competition. In several countries, such practices, on the contrary, favour large, international groups, which are now heavily involved in the health and care sector in many countries — and which tend to have an address in some tax haven. In fact, this is also the case here in the country, for example. in Oslo, where the Progress Party and the Right have, for several years, been engaged in extensive competitive outsourcing of nursing homes. There are large groups like Adecco, Aleris, Attendo, Carema and Norlandia that come down here. Ideal actors such as the Salvation Army and the Bymission have met with us at Stortinget told us that they have major difficulties in operating hospitals in Oslo, all the time they are to be measured against these large commercial companies, who are competing to provide low pensions and significantly lower average wages for employees than the public and non-profit providers offer. I don't think single female entrepreneurs or other small providers have any particular chance of succeeding in such a tough competition climate. This Document 8 shows important differences in red-green policy and the right-hand side stands for. We want private and, in particular, non-profit actors to be an important complement as partners in public welfare production. The right-wing party believes that public and commercial actors should be equalised. We do not want that. We are very pleased that the Christian People's Party is with us in the comments on this matter and in the majority's advice that the proposal should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1104	The Christian People's Party believes that the health, care and social sectors are poorly suited to traditional tendering procedures where short-term economic criteria are most often decisive. The built-in dynamics of the competition regime focus on price rather than quality and short-term rather than long-term. There's a lot of experience from today's regime. The Christian People's Party generally believes that care services are not suitable for commercial operations, but does not categorically reject the fact that they may be complementary. I notice that the Department will consider different measures to meet the needs of the ideal actors, and I agree that this is very important. The representative proposal does not distinguish between private commercial and private ideals – non-profit actors. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, believes that precisely such a distinction is important both because these actors have different characteristics and because they have different assumptions. The Christian People's Party wants the role, competence and distinctiveness of the ideals to be actively valued. The non-profit sector has its own self-esteem, and it is a political task to ensure that the sector is maintained. Ideal actors shall meet with respect and shall be guaranteed a stable and predictable framework. The Christian People's Party will further develop the interaction between the public sector and non-profit institutions serving households in order to improve the provision of services to the population. With an increasing need for care services — and increasing demands for quality and content — the need for interaction with non-profit and non-profit organisations will be increasing in the coming years. A key element in ensuring the long-term and foreseeable framework conditions for NPISHs is that all pension costs must be fully covered, including historical costs. All contracts concluded must state that, if contracts are concluded, the contracting entity, which in due time provided for public pension schemes, also covers the future regulatory premiums resulting from that pension scheme. It is necessary to extend existing agreements with non-profit service providers to cover several areas and to use the existing space for action to maximise the purchase of health and social services through direct acquisitions by non-profit actors. Long-term and ongoing agreements must contain good and relevant criteria and requirements, as well as guidelines for the necessary adjustments along the way. Costs increases which the parties cannot control or foresee at the time of conclusion of the contract should be fully compensated in the course of their journey. Such follow-up is necessary in order to ensure predictability and good cooperation between both parties. In NOU 2011:11 Innovation in care, released to the Ministry of Health and Welfare on 16 June last year, the sample considers that there should be a target of as much as 25 pst. by the total number of activities in the care sector are organised and run as non-profit-making activities by 2025. That's an important point. That is a good recommendation, and I would like to stress that it must be a goal to increase the proportion of healthcare provision provided by the ideal actors in the future. There are many remaining challenges in this area. Work on better framework conditions for non-profit actors must continue. Many businesses are currently in an acute situation, some have been closed down, and more are likely to be closed in a short time. Therefore, action needs to be taken quickly to prevent the participation of non-profit actors in the provision of care being even smaller in the coming period. I'm glad of the work the government has been doing, but I'm afraid it'll take too long. I'm also worried about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1130	The proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party has a broad approach to the concept of ‘care establishments’. The welfare community needs a wide range of actors responsible for the actual provision of care services. But we all agree that it is a public responsibility to provide for a number of care tasks. The political divisions are about whether the public should have a monopoly, or an approximate monopoly, on the service itself. The party of progress has a pragmatic approach to that very side of the case. For the Progress Party, it is of secondary importance whether it is a public enterprise, a non-profit organisation, or a private enterprise providing the service. What is essential is that the service maintains the quality requested and is of the extent that the public has ordered. If the quality and scope of the order are met, the Progress Party will also be able to enjoy the owners and employees of the enterprise if the enterprise is able to generate an additional economic surplus that can be invested in the further construction of the enterprise, or perhaps even give a dividend to the owners who have risked their equity. The Party shall take into account the needs of the recipient. We know that monopolies serve users to a small extent. We believe that healthy competition is a good tool that helps to raise quality and focuses on what is reasonable use of financial resources. The government's resistance to competition bottoms, in my opinion, in an outdated ideology. We hear arguments that it is only by giving employees poorer pay and working conditions that the private can save money. That's wrong. Many companies save large amounts of money on good organisation, high efficiency and short command lines. Most in the Committee are also familiar with the study of health and care services by Telemarks, which shows that even if skilled workers are more expensive than unskilled, the costs for employers will be lower when the proportion of skilled workers increases. The reason is that the skilled labour force is more productive. In other words, valuable employees can provide cheaper services. In the position, I refer to a quotation from former Social-Democratic Finance Minister Kjell-Olof Feldt, which underlines the need for competition as a key prerequisite for preserving the welfare state and welfare services. These are wise words that the Norwegian government should also notice. Most people know that we had never reached full kindergarten coverage if it wasn't because we didn't have all the good powers, both public, private and ideal businesses. It is also interesting to note that surveys have shown that parents are more satisfied with the offer offered in private kindergartens than in municipal areas. It should be a clue for the municipal actors to find out what they can do better, and that they put themselves in the harness to be the best at the next crossroads. The Progress Party believes that the government's rhetoric and approach to private and non-profit service providers is a direct threat to the welfare community. In the past, the Progress Party has pointed out that we risk losing a number of suppliers over five to ten years with the policies of the government. It is now also affecting the provision of childcare facilities, where municipalities do not have an economic system at all to deal with the financial mechanism provided by the government, and the result is a reduction in the quality of the offer of lower staff, fewer temporary workers and less pay for employees. We also see that a number of women want to start their own business in the care professions. You see a market. They see that many demand for services far more than public services provide, and they see a demand for better quality services. They think even they can deliver just this. For many there may be an alternative to years in a part-time job that does not pay enough to live off and with the prospect of becoming a minimum pensioner only when a long professional life is over. But the government's policy leads, makes it almost impossible to start such a care business, because the public does not see such a business as a positive supplement that the public can also in certain cases attract bills. They are considered almost like a hair in the soup. In this way, innovation and innovation in the care field are hindered. In reality, a direct anti-female policy is being pursued. After a long political struggle, we in this country have put in place a general compensation scheme that was intended to neutralise the distorting effects of VAT, when the public performs the tasks itself, or whether they buy them from private individuals. Unfortunately, we now see that the government's negative attitudes towards private individuals have been propagated far down in government. When the tax authorities ask whether patients in private hospitals with whom the municipality has a contract have legal claims in hospital places that come under the reimbursement scheme, they have to pinch their arms and wonder where this madness will end. The Progress Party has proposed to legislate on the right to health care; the government parties are satisfied to continue the concept that municipalities should provide the necessary health care. When the municipalities then take a single decision on the place of residence of a patient, the tax authorities cannot be those who are going to review the professional assessment of the municipality, only because the municipality chooses to purchase the service from a private or non-profit provider. There is an intrusive reluctance and scepticism towards private suppliers in the government, and that is frightening. Here the government needs to clean up as soon as possible. I hope that the Council of State sees it and pursues that issue, regardless of the outcome of the vote. I would, however, like to mention the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1153	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1156	Every day, employees in both the private sector, non-profit institutions and the public sector make a great effort to ensure that older people have good days and have good care. It should be good to get old in Norway. Older people should be sure that they get the help they need. The government’s defence of public Community solutions is not an attack on small private actors. It is a defence of mechanisms that ensure that everyone is offered an equivalent offer, irrespective of their economic and social background. It is the municipalities that are responsible for financing and providing necessary and sound care services. The individual municipality is free to provide the services itself, purchase the services of the private sector or a combination thereof. Privates must therefore have an agreement with the municipality. Of course, individuals are free to establish and provide care services. We do not believe that private is a threat to well-being. In several key areas of society, private is an important complement to public services, but experience from countries with high levels of private participation shows that when the market is given responsibility for the major tasks, such as care and school, distinctions are created between those who can afford to buy better services and those who do not. The government will not strengthen such a division. We will strengthen, improve and renew public welfare systems. The voluntary sector makes significant contributions to society of an economic, human and social nature. The government therefore pursues an active voluntary policy. We have a number of schemes that support the sector, such as: VAT compensation and other State subsidies. Suppliers contributing to welfare production must have predictable contractual conditions and working conditions, while at the same time making clear demands on quality, costs and working conditions. The scope of the act of law and regulation on public acquisitions and the framework of the EEA Agreement must be used to enable non-profit organisations to be public service contributors. The government wants to formalise cooperation with the non-profit organisations that are service providers. We therefore invite a dialogue with a view to concluding a cooperation agreement on the general principles of good cooperation. We want the dialogue to lead to the establishment of a contact forum between the government and the non-profit organisations. The government also encourages municipalities to enter into similar cooperation. The government has made the investment grant legislation more flexible as a lucky day care centre. The municipalities can now decide for themselves whether they wish to enter into agreements with non-governmental organisations, housing companies, private care companies or others in order to provide the day-to-day care facilities under normal business conditions. The requirement for long-term contracts of 30 years ensures that the grant is used for the purpose. Municipalities can continue to cooperate with non-profit actors in order to provide lucky day care facilities. In NOU 2011:11, Innovation in care, ideal actors in the care field were a theme. The Hagen committee's investigation has created a great deal of commitment. We have received 140 consultation responses from user organisations, municipalities, trade unions, non-governmental organisations, businesses and research and education environments. The Hagen Committee has been committed to caring for and mobilising the overall care resources of society. There may be resources or resources of the individual in the family, community or non-profit institutions serving households. It therefore proposes a number of voluntary and non-profit activities in the care field. The Hagen Committee also points to business and the rapidly growing senior market, affecting all sectors. In the field of care, they focus on the development of welfare technologies and the need for the population to adapt their own housing to old age and to renew a large proportion of the building stock in the care service. The hearing shows a great deal of excitement about the main lines in the setting, and I will now consider how to follow up the Hagen selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1176	I want to get into some of what I said in my post. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for the tax authorities to oversee the medical professional assessment of the municipalities, when individual decisions have been taken to provide a patient with the necessary health care only because the municipality chooses to allow a private or non-profit provider to perform the service? Does the Council of State consider that such a practice provides a level playing field for public and private care establishments?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1183	I am not familiar with the single example that the representative Gåsvatn mentions, but it is that once a decision has been made for a single patient or an elderly person who needs the care of a lucky person or a sick home, he should have it in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1189	For the Right, I would like to refer to the posts of the representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn and say that we share those assessments. Then I'd like to bring up Mr. Tove Karoline Knutsen's posts where she attacked some named, so-called commercial international actors that are partly located in tax havens. Some of these actors use the government, for example: when nursing is rented to hospitals, doctors to hospitals, a user of the same actors when offering child protection to the most vulnerable children in child protection, a user of private commercial actors to ensure full child care, to carry out X-rays, laboratory tests, operations, etc. It is very difficult to understand where the border of the Workers' Party goes as far as the use of these so-called international commercial actors – whether the border goes one way or whether it goes between rhetoric on the one hand and practice on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1198	This proposal was about the framework conditions for private care establishments. For the government, it is important that we have a good care service in Norway. We have a law that allows municipalities to do this on their own, or use ideal or private actors. What is important throughout the care sector is that the public has a strong responsibility, and that the public also expands its offer, so that we can have an equivalent offer throughout the country. It is also the case that in health care there are many actors who are self-employed, and on whom we are dependent. The representative Höie himself mentions X-rays and a number of other actors, which we are totally dependent on in order to make the healthcare system go around. This does not mean that the health service in Norway is not a public health service. That's how the government thinks it should be, but private is a good supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1207	There is no doubt that the ideal institutions have been well integrated as part of public health provision for many decades. It also followed that they had to have the same pay and pension conditions for employees as for others. In these days, negotiations are ongoing between NPISHs and Health South-East in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. It is the case that Health South-East has not been authorised to negotiate long-term solutions, for example: pension. My question is whether the Council of State will ensure that health south-east, and for the part of other regional health establishments, in the future agreements they are to conclude, gives the non-profit institutions the right to recover the pension costs. This must happen, as I see it, and as I have perceived the Council of State. If this is not done, I'm afraid the ideal institutions will simply not dare to enter into new agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1216	I cannot go in and comment on negotiations that are in progress. But what I said in my post, and which I'm very busy with, is that non-profit institutions that provide services also have to be able to offer the same pay and contract terms that others do. The fact that we have good framework conditions for ideal actors is important. Because I fully agree with the Davøy representative that NPISHs often have added value because they provide services with a perhaps larger initiative from the voluntary sector compared to what is often seen in the public sector. That is why I am also pleased that health companies have concluded agreements with non-profit institutions serving households. We see it in particular in the field of drugs, where we're actually very dependent on these institutions. Of course, I am concerned that we should have predictable framework conditions, so that we can have good cooperation in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1221	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1226	Only a brief note to the representative Bent Höie's reply on international companies with tax havens. I'd like to admit that I'm not happy with this kind of group, which is salting their money down on the Cayman Islands, in Switzerland and Jersey. But I know that many public actors, both state and local authorities, are dealing with these groups. My point was not to say that there is only misery in the work they do. On the contrary, many of them do a good job, sail if we've also seen examples of the opposite. My point was that we have a high degree of groupization in health and care services. We see that internationally, and we see that here. It is unfortunate that these actors come in so strongly and are so heavy inside, for example. care for the elderly. Then my advice is that the right-wing parties don't always talk about this being an arena for women entrepreneurs and small actors. To the extent that they enter, they rush back – at the first opportunity – because the logic of the market makes you get these heavy, big players in the health and care sector. That's my point. These big players have a tough dividend policy. Then I ask myself the question, and I would like to pass it on to others: is there anything in the care of the elderly that suggests that it is a rational thing to take out and collect as dividends? No, that's not it. The costs of care for the elderly go to wages, pensions and good working conditions for the employees. If you want to rationalize something to make a profit, you have to take it here. I have a letter from the City Council in Oslo, dated March 12th in 2010, where they say that a large commercial player who has low pensions for employees is worth 35 million. kr in a medium-sized nursing home during a tendering period. The low pension for women who work at this hospital is 35 million. kr that goes to the Cayman Islands or Jersey account. It's a regime I'm against. Then I recommend that you don't drive and talk about that there are female entrepreneurs you want in here, because the commercialization doesn't support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1237	In my reply I took up tax relations, and the council says that she does not know the conditions. They come from the Skatt west and Bergen, so it should be an opportunity for the Council of State to get hold of this. This is something she should definitely address with the Minister of Finance. Tax West will now not provide VAT compensation for social services provided by non-profit actors. They also provide comprehensive documentation on patients admitted to Bergen Röde Kors Sykhemjem. This becomes a lot more work for the municipality when they have to try to define their own individual decision. We see that the municipality of Bergen is now afraid of the Indremision home, which is a temporary daily living offer, for the Bakkegate, which the Salvation Army operates, which is a temporary daily living offer – the taxes right to the Skatt East – the Helgeseter Foundation, a housing and relief centre for the disabled, and the N.K.S. Fayehagen, who runs the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association for multi-disabled children. Here there are ongoing major disputes between the municipality and the Skatt West, where one digs into whether the municipality has actually taken decisions that give legal claims for such an offer. This must be cleaned up!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1246	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1260	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1269	The issue we are about to deal with now is a proposal from the Progression Party on measures to ensure the rapid reconstruction of breasts after breast cancer operations. Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer among women in Norway, and about 2,800 are affected each year. About half of the women have to remove one or both breasts. This can lead to great stress; many experience fatigue, shoulder and arm pain, depression and long-term psychosocial problems. Decreased self-esteem, sleep problems and anxiety are not uncommon. For women, this is about identity, it's about setting a point for cancer and getting a better quality of life. The association for breast cancer surgery has said this: two breasts are not luxury, it is a pure necessity. Breast reconstruction is a very important factor in contributing to health, wellbeing and a good and full women's life. National Council for Quality and Priority in Health and Care considers that reconstruction should be part of the offer for breast cancer surgery in Norway. The Health Directorate has taken this into account in its work on national guidelines for breast cancer. It's an unacceptable long wait for reconstruction. The Health Directorate has informed that approx. 750 women need to be reconstructed annually. Many women have waited up to seven to eight years. An overall committee agrees that the waiting time is unacceptable and that it imposes a significant burden on women. There is too little capacity and limited access to public competences. Therefore, in the case of reconstruction, the offer needs to be significantly increased. Breathing instructions shall be included in the cancer action programme under the breast cancer guidelines. The disagreement between the government parties and the opposition lies in how this is to be done, the rights of women and the speed of reconstruction. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party propose that breast reconstruction should be covered by priority healthcare under the Patient Rights Act, and that the maximum waiting time after a medical assessment should not exceed one year after the breasts or breasts have been removed. Government parties do not consider it appropriate to have a separate deadline, and there is reason to ask: not suitable for whom? At least that's for the women. They want to get a new breast within a year, they want to know what to do and not wait up to seven to eight years! The Government Parties refer to the Health Directorate Working Party to draw up the national guidelines to be completed on 23 March. It is precisely at this stage of work that the Storting can give clear information to the working group on the political leadership from which they are going to work. This is about three things: first, giving women who are operating for breast cancer, a right, priority health care with a maximum waiting time for reconstruction. Secondly, it is about building up sufficient capacity and competence in the public health sector. Thirdly, it is about taking away the long queues of women waiting for a new breast. We can give these rights to women now. Building up the necessary skills and capacity in the public sector will take a long time. The long queues can be taken away now if it is the political will of the government parties and the Minister for Health. But they're pushing it over to the health companies. We now need to do something about what we can – grant rights and get rid of the queues, in parallel with expanding the public offer. Experience shows that when patients get a right, it becomes a priority – otherwise it goes slowly! The Cancer Association, in a letter to the Minister of Health and Welfare, has shown that there is free capacity and great will in private clinics carrying out various types of breast reconstruction, and they will contribute to a real effort to reduce waiting time and waiting lists. But, of course, they depend on the regional health establishments to conclude the necessary contracts for the purchase of operations. Breast cancer-surgery women have waited long enough now. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party therefore propose to the government to ensure that necessary agreements are concluded with private clinics and that this is explained in the context of the revised budget in 2012. However, the parties to the government will not support this proposal. They say that they do not impose any restrictions on the use of private operators, and that this is up to individual health professionals. But we know how it works in practice. The queues and waiting lists increase year by year. Several thousand stand in line, they are not given priority, and they refer to the lack of public offer. There are many women from all over the country in the gallery and outside the Stortinge today. What they have in common is that they are operated on for breast cancer, they lack a breast or two, and they have been on the waiting list for breast reconstruction for a long time. How much longer do they have to wait? It is not too late for the government parties to turn around, nor is it a shame to turn around and support the proposals of the opposition. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that have been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1303	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1306	First to an error which has occurred in an incurrency on page 3, in which the date of the working group's deadline is 23 March, not 20 March, and further down, in which, of course, it shall be the Working Party of the Health Directorate and not the National Council for Quality and Priorities. I hope that's noted. The matter of rapid breast reconstruction has, not unexpectedly, created a great commitment. I think it's great that the girls stand up for the rights they want. In the debate that has now taken place, it is heard as if there are two fronts, that the opposition wants to reconstruct the breast, and that we red-green are against new breasts for cancer. It's completely wrong. We want, like the opposition, everyone who needs it and who can get it, to have it. The most important thing for us is that people should get well, then life comes after the disease that should be as rapid as possible. Removing a breast is a heavy burden that brings with it many additional problems, which the representative Sjøli was in. Reconstructing a breast is important and part of feeling healthy after cancer. Not least improves the quality of life. The working party agrees that the waiting time for reconstruction is unacceptable, and this case again shows that female health is not always as high as priority in our healthcare system. We have to do something about that. Ideally, one should wait no longer than one year, of course with the assumption that it is medically sound. However, not all reconstructions have the same waiting time. If a desired prosthesis, the waiting time is between 32 and 54 weeks, and it may well be within reasonable limits. But where one has to reconstruct from his own tissue, the waiting time is too long. It is fine that now there are leaders from the Minister of Health that reconstruction should be part of the treatment, and I would like to stress what is in the setting, that breast reconstruction must be in the treatment programme and included in guidelines and guidance in the field. When the Workers' Party does not support the proposal for a one-year waiting guarantee, there are several reasons for this. A working group in the Health Directorate has been set up to look at several aspects of breast cancer treatment – who should receive, competence for surgeons and not least volume. Their report will be available on 23 March, and we believe that it should form the basis for future treatment. Only after we have received the professional answer will we be able to say something about real deadlines and thus ensure an actual and real offer. One might wonder whether the opposition has a different knowledge from the National Council for Quality and Priorities, as they can be bombastically one year – and finished speaking. We want professional advice, and we want facts before we can say one thing or another. But anyway, wait time should be down. It is also important for the Workers' Party that we do not set up groups against each other, as we in Norway lack plastic surgeons. They operate a lot different – damaged and damaged by traffic – and do other reconstruction, which is equally important for them. That's why we need to know what we're doing, without just making an estimate, and just hope it's going to go well. We must also listen here to the professional and good advice. The working party shares the medical association’s concern about the lack of capacity in the case of plastic surgeons and considers it important to increase both the capacity and competence of the public health service. The medical association was also involved in the consultation. Although private clinics have capacity – and they can and must be used – they can drain the public for skills that are already in demand. It is therefore appropriate to focus more on public health in order to achieve a rapid and effective treatment and to ensure that expertise and competence are maintained. Like the other parties, we want girls who need it to get breast reconstruction. It would be very nice if the opposition could also wait the days that are left, until the working group presented its work before we reached the conclusion. Perhaps a transmission proposal will be an opportunity that the opposition can assess — to put it as a lead in the future. Because we're concerned about the same thing: faster breast reconstruction to those who need it. When we see what the working group will do in its work, we can get answers to the questions that we have asked ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1334	Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer in women. The survival rate is high, and not everyone has to remove one or both breasts. But about 50 pst. of the breast cancer affected must, in addition to a severe cancer treatment, remove the breast. Removing a breast leads to extra heavy stress and, in addition to mental distress, also causes some severe physical distress. The waiting time for breast reconstruction is too long, the debate has recently shown that we all agree, but the way forward is difficult to agree on. One way to do this is to wait, talk and hope that things get better. This is the government's answer. The other way is to set clear targets, set requirements and take action. This is the opposition's answer. The importance of new breasts – and regardless of age – I myself understood a few years ago. A party colleague early in the 1950s had to remove one of his breasts. The cancer treatment itself was long, heavy and difficult, which led to her generally always being sly. She kind of never got to the hedges again. Then one day I met her again, after a long period of time without having seen her, and she looked brilliant. Talk about total renovation – new hairstyle, new style of dress, ear holes and beautiful makeup! I got a new puppy, she said brilliantly and wanted me to look at it. Now I am not quite used to being offered to look at women's breasts, so I was a little startled and thanked politely no. But you should look at it, she said it's so beautiful, it's a miracle. Then she told about how they had built up a whole new breast and tattooed a nipple, and how this had changed her whole life. To me, this was an incredible meeting, which taught me how important this matter is, and not least that any discussion of age is not acceptable. After the case was promoted in this room, there has been an enormous commitment. The Facebook page "We're not waiting for another pup after cancer" now has about 19,000 members. Both breast cancer surgery and non-breast cancer surgery, both women and men have engaged and raised themselves in protest. But has it helped? When the opposition in its comments stresses that breast reconstruction should be a right in line with other breast cancer treatments, the government does not support this. When the opposition says that breast reconstruction must come under priority health care, government parties do not support this either. An overall committee supports the observation that there is an unacceptable long waiting period and that it will be impossible to achieve the target of reduced cows without public cooperation with private clinics. But the value of this joint remark is completely lost when the government parties will not be on a note where the opposition asks the government to ensure that such agreements are concluded. So in reality, the government parties don't give anything in this case. In recent debates, the Labour Party in particular has tried to pretend to be voting for this proposal today. Helga Pedersen has said several times that they really don't disagree. They shall only wait for the result of a sample. Every case the government is met with, is answered with a sample, so this is nothing new. But Helga Pedersen has presented it as if there will be a deadline when the sample has presented its report. Then I dare remind the Workers' Party and Helga Pedersen of the health minister's response of 11 January. The Minister of Health wrote the following: ‘It is not appropriate, in my opinion, for a specific period of time for surgical reconstruction after breast cancer.’ So we get different signals from the Minister of Health, the Government, the Workers' Party and individual representatives. The only thing we know for sure is that an overall committee knows that there is free capacity to comply with the proposal as it stands from the opposition, but the government parties will wait for the sample. What are they really waiting for? I don't wonder about anything, and it strictly doesn't matter to anyone in the Health and Care Committee if we read the whole thing as it is now. A man from the gallery: why are you discussing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1374	There are no comments from the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1377	I want to start by giving honor to all the women who have gone in the breeze. There are also some men who have gone to the chest to claim their right in this matter. They also probably have the entire population of Norway with them, both female and male. So it often turns out that when everyone agrees on a matter, it happens that you meet what you call an ant of goodwill in the field of equality. Everyone agrees, but then nothing happens. I just want to stress that that is not what is going to be the case in this case. Here things are going to happen. Then I will also give tribute to the proposers. I think the representative before me, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, had a very nice post. That's what they said. I don't think it's difficult for us who are women, to imagine how we would have reacted in a situation where we felt that our desire to get a new breast after something as dramatic and serious as a breast cancer is – potentially life-threatening – to meet it with a kind of attitude that this is just a luxury problem, which has also been mentioned earlier here. It's both unacceptable, it's deeply unfair, and you can be quite knocked on the ground by meeting such a kind of attitude, because this is not about luxury problems. On the SV side, we expect the working group that is now working on this and quite correctly to present its position on 23 March, i.e. quite soon, to be offensive in its thinking and in its recommendations to us. We don't want to put any kind of restrictions on that group or to signal from this room that we don't want change as monks, and that really change the lives of the people who are affected today. So it's stressed on the strongest from our side. There are three things that we are concerned about from SV's side: first, a quick winding of the queues for those who are waiting for breast reconstruction today. It is, of course, quite unacceptable that some people have waited for years to have a new breast – or two new breasts – when it is so important for both quality of life, health and sea level. Still, the waiting time for some places is up to seven years. It's totally unacceptable, and sailing a halve of it would still be unacceptable. Then it has to be common to do primary reconstruction, as it is called, of the breasts of the women who are able to receive such a type of treatment. It's about putting the implants in the same operation as removing the breast. That's what's called primary reconstruction. But not everyone can get it. Those who can get it are those who are not going to have cell poison treatment afterwards, where the tissue is not damaged, and where you don't have any problems getting an implant like that. It has not been so common to do so in Norway, and that is some reason why the queues have increased so dramatically. So you have to do something about it, and make sure that it becomes common to do it for those who can, becomes important. But then we also have to be aware that we have to go to work critically on which hospitals are going to perform breast cancer operations. It was 60, today it's 20, and we need to have the competence of the hospitals to do this. It requires several types of surgeons, for which there is a lack today – perhaps because they are spread to too many hospitals. We must also dry up that debate. Then it is that women should have a professionally good offer, and they should have a predictable offer without longer waiting time than what is professionally recommended for health reasons. We expect the working group to be clear on what kind of rights and obligations will be the basis for carrying out such a reconstruction. We have great sympathy for the proposal to give women the right to priority health care, precisely because it is incredibly important to get a new breast for very many women. We have had many meetings in this case, and there has been information that was quite surprising, among other things. to me. For example, one of the experts says there should be a minimum of six months. Maybe it's optimal to wait one year after finishing treatment, says one expert, who really is a lighthouse in this area. We are also told to be careful about using individuals who do not have the skills, and to use the skills that are in the public domain, because there we also have the interdisciplinary nature. The quality must be in the high seat. Then it's important – and then I think – that then maybe we can make sure to have a lift, a doggy, and have a weekend job to get away from the queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1400	Yeah, it was a little overtime. I guess that's the weekend job, too, assuming the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1403	First, thank the proposers for raising the issue of breast reconstruction after breast cancer operations. In September 2010, I was operated on for breast cancer. I know I'm not the only one in the Stortinge who's been hit by breast cancer, but it's made me an experience richer in many ways. When I was going to operate, I was most concerned that I wanted to get to someone who had done it before, preferably many times, and I was most focused on getting all the sick cells away. It was not until the evening before I was to be operated on, that I thought more about what I would look like afterwards – not until the lady from the Breast Cancer Association came and showed me various prostheses that could be used in the bra afterwards. Then I was very lucky and got to keep very much of my chest. I was also told that I was lucky, who was set up for surgery with a surgeon who was also a plastic surgeon, and it was looking pretty good – sail if it’s a bit strange. It's a point that I was set up with a surgeon like that, which was also a plastic surgeon. In order for a reconstruction guarantee to have any value, we need to have enough plastic surgeons in all hospitals that operate breast cancer. Not only that, we have to have plenty of surgeons with the skills needed for the different ways of operating, just as the representative Thorkildsen was just in. An operation in which you reconstruct your chest with your own tissue, for example: from the stomach, is not a small operation. Then we must have good surgeons. The operation of the implants is easier, but requires its own. I'll give you an example of that. I have talked to my friend and have been allowed to tell her that in 2009 she was informed that she had the BRCA gene error. That means she had 95 pst. chance of developing breast cancer. My friend was then offered to remove both breasts and reconstruct new ones to avoid going and being afraid of getting cancer. In order to get new breasts designed by her own tissue she had to put on. There wasn't enough tissue on your stomach to reconstruct two breasts. She evaluated it, and with the fact that it was a more demanding operation, the choice fell on implants. This meant that she had to travel quite a few miles to the hospital once a week for three months to fill up the area that would be breast-feeding, with salt water – this for the skin to adapt to. I know many people who have had breast cancer, and I strongly believe that the offer of breast reconstruction should be a natural part of the rehabilitation after breast cancer surgery, or after a preventative operation. Then we have to make sure that the content of the guarantee is of quality. It must be done in the best possible way for each individual breast cancer. Everyone has their own pathology. Nobody's the same. And we get to reconstruct the breast while being operated on for breast cancer, it must be very, very good for those who can take advantage of such an operation. Reconstruction waiting time is different from hospital to hospital, and there are different waiting times compared to the type of reconstruction you choose. As stated in the setting, there is waiting time for several years in Oslo for the same operation you can get within six months in Trondheim. Reconstruction with own tissues has the longest waiting time. For me, it's important that we get a guarantee that works the same for those who live in North Norway, in Trøndelag, in the West or in Oslo. The opposition also says sea level in the setting: ‘The condition for this to be possible is that the public offer is built up and ensured throughout the country.’ That's right! That's a good point. In addition, we need to include private clinics in the reconstruction offer, but if the guarantee is to have a real value, we need to have an offer that ensures that we get the best both from the private and from the public, and good interaction between them. It has been claimed, among others: in a number of reports in the media, and also here today, it is decided today whether women are entitled to breast reconstruction after cancer surgery. I think that is wrong. I want to hear what the working group led by the Health Directorate in collaboration with the Breast Cancer Association and the Cancer Association say in their proposal that they have a deadline of 23 March. In fact, I ask respect for it and that I not be labeled as one who does not want to escape women's right to reconstruction. It must be a matter of course! In the last few days, I and the rest of the Stortinget have received a number of similar e-mails in which we are encouraged not to let us cuddle of the partisan, but vote to our own conviction. That's what I'm going to do. For reasons of safety, if I have been hit by breast cancer, I will vote to attach the proposal protocol. I am not voting against the intentions of the proposal. My concern is that I want to make sure that we get a guarantee for all women, no matter where in the country they live, no matter what kind of reconstruction they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1430	Breast cancer is clearly the most common form of cancer in women and accounts for about 23 pst. of all cancer cases in women. Nearly 36 000 women have or have had breast cancer. In many of the cancer cases, the treatment of the cancer will involve the removal of the breast of the woman. In addition, it applies to women who remove breasts preventively on the basis of genetic defects, which predispose them to breast cancer. Such guidelines have now been, breast reconstruction has not been part of the treatment of cancer itself. After the end of treatment, women who have lost their breasts have therefore had to settle in a new queue – a queue that can last up to 10 years. Women who have to wait many years before reconstruction clearly show that the quality of life is severely impaired. The Council of State stated in its statement on the matter that a specific period of time for surgical reconstruction after breast cancer was not appropriate. On the other hand, both the Cancer Association and the Breast Cancer Association point out in their consultation responses that a time limit is most necessary. Both associations also set one year as an upper limit for waiting time. Waiting for reconstruction is for the vast majority, and especially the youngest, a great mental impact. In addition to anxiety and depression, the patient may often feel less female and attractive if cancer treatment results in breast removal. Breast ironing after breast cancer is an important and necessary part of treatment and rehabilitation for many women. A reconstruction does not remove fear, but can help to strengthen self-image by re-creating body symmetry. Many people say that a reconstruction is important to get rid of cancer. The association for breast cancer surgeons reports that almost daily they are being approached by desperate women with breast cancer waiting and waiting. Women can tell about a treatment involving a lack of information, deferrals and high unforeseeability. In particular, in order to reduce the waiting time for reconstruction, it is necessary to ensure and increase the competence and capacity of the public sector. The goal must be that Norwegian plastic surgeons become increasingly skilled and more experienced, so that women with breast cancer can be offered an even better treatment in the reconstruction of breasts. Therefore, the opposition has made a number of earlier proposals, which could help increase capacity and improve the overall competence of cancer treatment. Unfortunately, the response of both the Minister of Health and the Government parties has been negative. In an interpellation debate last week, initiated by Bent Höie, the Council of State could announce that there would be a cancer strategy. That's good. It is natural that reconstruction is also mentioned in this strategy, and that reconstruction becomes part of the offer for breast cancer surgery also in Norway. When the whole committee, including the government parties, says in the setting that breast reconstruction should be part of the treatment, it's a little incomprehensible to me that this doesn't mean that reconstruction comes under priority health care. Obviously, the parties do not think so, since they do not vote in favour of this proposal. To make a decision that you want a deadline: whether it should be within one year, or whether it should be within more than one year – the representative Thorkildsen spoke of it as being professional. You might be able to wait for the deadline. If the government parties had agreed that we should have a deadline, we might have it attached to the protocol, but the government parties are so far not in favour of either the first or the second proposal. I'm sorry about that. I wish that we found each other here, if that's how you actually want that reconstruction to be part of the treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1454	This case is important to many women. It impresses me that so many have engaged to give the many Norwegian women who experience breast cancer, a voice and a face. I am not satisfied that the waiting time for breast reconstruction after breast cancer is so long, and my goal is that the waiting time should fall. However, I would like to stress that we have achieved important results in the treatment of breast cancer in recent years. OECD figures show that Norway is now the best for survival in Europe. Figures for the period 2005-2009 show that five years of survival for breast cancer is 86.5 pst, an increase of almost 5 pst. from the period before. The good results are due to excellent professionals and the proper prioritisation of resources. But we can – and we should – get better, especially when it comes to post-intervention follow-up. Getting a breast cancer diagnosis is a dramatic experience. The treatment time is hard and demanding. An extra load will be when you have to wait a long time for a new breast. It's not hard to understand that getting a new breast will be an important part of feeling healthy after breast cancer. Professional estimates show that surgical reconstruction after breast cancer may be relevant for approx. 700 women a year. Different techniques are used, as has been the subject of the debate. There may be reconstruction with prosthesis or by building up a new breast with the woman's own tissue. The waiting time is the longest for advanced plastic surgery where the woman's own tissue is used in the reconstruction. Women who have received radiation treatment must wait longer because the skin must be normalised after treatment. We want women to be reconstructed as quickly as possible, but when that can happen, and how, must also be based on professional assessments of each patient. National advice on quality and priority in healthcare has addressed the issue of reconstructive surgery after breast cancer. The Council concluded that review for reconstruction should be offered to women as part of the course of breast cancer treatment. The recognition of the importance of such treatment for many women was crucial to the Council’s conclusion. I have also been clear that reconstruction should be part of the process. The Council conclusions form the basis for the national action programme on breast cancer presented on 23 March. Surgical reconstruction of the breast becomes part of this program. Patient associations representing breast cancer patients participate in the working group. This contributes to a knowledge-based and professional basis for building a good range of services with sufficient capacity to provide rapid and adequate treatment. The good results we've seen in the cancer field inspire us to go into areas where we still have a lot of work to do. Reconstructive surgery after breast cancer is such an area. Waiting times need to be significantly reduced, and we are now working to make such surgery an integral part of the treatment process. I will follow up the report on action programmes for the treatment of breast cancer. In the 2012 regional health companies mission document, I have asked for measures to reduce the waiting time for this patient group. Regional health companies are responsible for implementing the action programme, and I will follow this closely. Finally, I would like to commend a great cross-political commitment to female health in general and to those breast cancer surgeries in particular. This promises well for the further work, where we all agree on the goal of offering a better offer to this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1483	The Government Parties have written in a note that ‘private operators must be used where offer of reconstruction cannot be made within a reasonable time’. The word "reasonable" is very diffuse. For example, three hairs in soup are reasonably much, while three hairs on your head are reasonably small. How many years does the government consider reasonable, in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1490	My goal is that the waiting time for reconstructive surgery after breast cancer should fall. My objective is that this should be part of the course of treatment. It has also said that the National Council for Quality and Prioritisation. I very much agree with that. Then the Health Directorate has set up a working group, and it is not any working group. In fact, there is a wide range of disciplines that consist of different forms of competence — medical professional competence that we need in order for us to have a good and sound framework for this. They will give their advice on March 23. I'm waiting for that advice. But the goal is clear: the waiting time here is coming down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1497	It takes time to build up the public capacity. Over 4,000 women are now in line for reconstruction. In 2003, the Swedish Cooperative Government granted extra funding for foreign treatment, and many women had breast reconstructed in Uppsala. In 2005, nobody was in line. So now in 2012, 4,000 women go waiting for reconstruction. It will, as I said, take time to expand the public sector, and my question is whether the Council of State will now help make it a good thing, as the representative Thorkildsen was also in, to bring down the waiting lists and the waiting time by instructing regional health businesses to prioritize this area and use the free private capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1502	Regional health businesses have been very clearly informed in the mission paper that the waiting time will be reduced and that they will have to take action to do so. Using private actors may be a current option. It might be an alternative to having a hard time. But the most important thing is actually to build up the capacity, so that we don't get to get such a hard time. After having this bridge to Sweden and getting away from the queue in 2003, the queue has rebuilt. That's not good enough. That is precisely why we need to assess how much capacity is to be built up, what rights patients should have, how this should enter the course of treatment, and what would be the professionally sound thing in each case. The advice with which this working group is now working is due on 23 March. Then we're going to follow up. Then I'll also say what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1511	I am very pleased that there is agreement that reconstruction should be part of the treatment. I wonder if the Council of State agrees not when reconstruction given it will have the same status as the treatment of cancer itself, and that it is quite logical that by definition it is ‘priority health care’. This has to be followed in a way. Then my question is: If the Health DG's working group now comes to the conclusion – and I hope so – that they will recommend a kind of deadline for this, because it is to be part of the treatment and priority health care, will the government and the Council of State follow that advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1518	I would like to emphasise again that there is a wide-ranging group of highly skilled professionals who have entered here. They look at different areas — they look at capacity, they look at rights, they look at how this should be part of the treatment process. There is no disagreement in this room that this should be part of the course of treatment. I haven't heard anyone speak against it. And that's exactly what we're working on. But we have to do this properly. We have to do this in a way that enables us to build up competence, so we don't get in the situation that you suddenly have a big queue of patients that you can't get away with. It is very important because we see that this is so crucial and so important to so many women.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1523	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1528	I have listened very carefully to the representatives of the government parties: many beautiful words, lots of gold and a lot of glitter, but no action. Earlier today, the 22nd July committee here at the Stortinget took its position, where the government parties together with us in the opposition have adopted 14 proposals. Then I noticed that the representative of the Labour Party said: "We must jointly accept responsibility if we want something to happen." Yes, we want something to happen. The same thing happened when the Progress Party had a proposal for a representative on victims of violence. Then the government parties, for the first time in six years, were able to vote in favour of our proposals. And the reason: There was an urgent need to put in place the victim compensation system before the trial after July 22. Why isn't it so urgent now? Do not tell me that we have to wait here for the conclusion of the professional working group. There's nothing new here, just another training and delay. This is a discharge. If the government parties in this meeting vote against the proposals, but the working group comes to the same conclusion later, I will ask the Minister of Health if she is satisfied to be responsible for this delay. We are talking about the possible treatment of a landfill in a few months – a few months too much. So I would like to have a response from the Minister of Health on how it is possible to argue to vote the proposals down with a technical justification that in my view does not meet the objectives, when we know that our fellow sisters in our neighbouring country have the guarantee of a new breast one month after the doctor has given a clear signal. What have they understood in Denmark and Sweden that the Minister of Health has not understood? How is it possible that in a country as rich as Norway we have a reconstruction queue? How is it possible that the Minister of Health has not realized that there is a urgency that we do not have time to wait for decisions, that we do not have time for even more people to enter a queue that is heavy and crooked, in addition to all the other challenges cancer patients have? I strongly urge the Minister of Health to dry – in line with the Minister of Justice in connection with the Act on the Compensation of Victims – to go for the proposals of the Progress Party, dry to show responsibility and not weakness. We need action, and we need it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1545	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, did well for the Central Party in this matter. There will certainly be changes for breast cancer-surgery women. We're not voting today after partiality, but after our over-estimation to ensure that breast cancer-surgery women escape unnecessary waiting after surgery to get breast reconstruction. I want to focus on what has been described as a buttoning factor in order to get this done as we wish. It's not about money, it's about access to expertise and plastic surgeons in public health. The centre party remembers and is pleased that a joint committee says that a general construction of public plastic surgeons is required. But the opposition suggests that a contract be made with private clinics to reduce waiting time. The question that the opposition won't discuss is whether it's okay for the private health services today to work on the wrong things, because we might have enough plastic surgeons in Norway, but they're working completely private, clean cosmetics. We can't forbid that. We can buy services from health companies, which we also do not place any obstacles on, but this shows the problem that we have a private health market that provides the competence of the public in favour of tasks in which there is more foresight. In principle, I think that when society uses great resources to develop a plastic surgeon, which probably takes ten to twelve years, it should also ensure that the profession is working on the right things that society needs. The most important thing is to provide medical health care to those who need it the most, and then the public needs to secure enough specialists. I argued that when the government comes back with a case about this, after this group has made its recommendations, plastic surgeons and recruiting them become a central issue, because it is absolutely crucial that one should reduce the waiting time for this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1557	Imagine that we are standing here in this room in 2012 to discuss a matter that it should have been obvious that we had sloped, simply that all women waiting for a new breast should have had a new breast in a holistic breast cancer treatment! But here we are, and those of us who are lucky, who are healthy, must go out strongly and support our fellow sisters who are waiting for a new breast. More than 700 women are standing annually, almost with lua in their hands, asking for what is missing in their treatment courses. I'm sorry. This is probably a shame for all the women, and it's a betrayal by governing authorities. I wonder, for it actually turns out like this, if the queue has suddenly arrived overnight, so that we now have to set up a group to figure out what to do, who should be treated, how, where and what it will cost. It's not like that! There are thousands who have been in line for years – for one, two, three, seven years. I'm getting really upset! Read daily about those who stand up – honor be them – and say that they will not actually have it. I expected that my fellow sisters from the government party would also have supported us in order to get a processing time on this. But don't talk about it! They have to wait for this group. On March 24, something happens. Can we give something to those who are waiting, or will it only be one, two, three, dot? What about all the people who have stood and waited so long? We have to do something with them. It's a very long wait, and they need what they're right, we mean in the Progress Party. My fellow sisters, the women of the government – who I thought were fellow sisters – why don't all those who expect to get their lives back as soon as possible? Why do they expect them to continue? The party of progress thinks they've been subjected to enough suffering, enough pain, mental depression and not least extra struggles to get something they should actually be right about. What, as I said, when these plans are ahead? It will take time to get away from the cows, which the government itself has created. Here one should go in with fresh funds and purchased places, because we actually have free capacity at different clinics. Whether they're private or public – you name it – or they're anywhere in the world, the most important thing is that we have to take the queues away. Could a just have come away with it, at least I would have appreciated it. The party of progress has the will and will help these women who have gone through so much so that they can once again become participants in our society and in their own lives. The women of the Progress Party support their fellow sisters. The country can afford to get away from breast reconstruction cows. The country has free capacity. The country should focus on women's heels. The party of progress says yes, while the government sees its women's fellow sisters waiting. It's incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1572	Everyone in this case who has been on the pulpit has stated that the situation is currently unsustainable. All the batches have signaled that we should press in to solve the queue no one wants to be there. I want to add for myself that I have a nagging feeling that that queue would not have been as long if this had been a typical human condition. Here are many good plus factors that play in the right direction in the debate. When there's such a total expansion that shows that we want to do something about the situation, one would think that the tone could have been something different. I, for example, react when I hear representatives from the Progress Party knocking down on this working group. At least then I would like to remind you that both the Cancer Association and the Breast Cancer Association are part of that group. The fact that you can't wait the three weeks to hear what advice they want to give us is a little special to me. In addition, there are a number of other dimensions that I believe the matter deserves to be looked at, which we do not currently have a good enough knowledge of. Which parts of this queue will be granted what rights in the future? It is obvious to me that these 4,000 women will receive different treatment courses, ergo there should also be different rights. The proposal does not address any of those dilemmas. Then we need the advice that now in three weeks is going to make its recommendations, to know how we're going to solve them. So I think it's a bit of a funny debate, in a matter where a total big deal shows that we're going to do this, we're going to solve this, and then all of a sudden we're not going to take on professional advice and what is actually possible to do with the capacity and competence we have in the country. I want to ask the Right: When did knowledge not become important for making decisions – you who call you the knowledge party? So we're talking again about three weeks before we know anything more about the matter. I wish, on behalf of these women, that we may have sunk some of the sharpest rhetoric in this debate and at least not once again give them false hopes, hopes we cannot fulfill because we do not have the capacity and competence to do so. It doesn't deserve these 4,000 either, sail if I understand their impatience, and I think it's absolutely justified. But I think they also have a claim that the Stortinge treats them seriously and makes decisions that are professionally well qualified, and not least enforceable in relation to guarantees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1583	I think that the representative Breen before me hits the nail on his head when he says that we probably wouldn't have been in the same situation if it had been about men, because this is about women's health for very many years being down-prioritized at many levels in health care, and probably also in politics. That's why it's good that there's so many now across all of the parties that are gathering to say that we don't find this in, so it shouldn't be, we're going to have another situation, we're going to have a worthy situation for these women who are being operated on. So I just want to stress that when we're going to build up a capacity to make sure that the leading part of the treatment is primary reconstruction, that is, that this happens in the same process that you're removing the breast, then it'll take time to build up the competence. I have a great deal of understanding that those who are waiting and waiting today, who may have waited several years, don't think it's okay to wait until that competence is in place. Therefore, we need to discuss how we can ensure that those who are in line today can get a new breast quickly. I was so much into it at the end of my post: what if we look at the possibility of getting to a job? It's also been done before. I also said that it is important to make sure that it is the public that has the primary responsibility for this. The reason for this is not that SV suffers from a private allergy – let me underline it. Personally, I very much sympathise with the views that the representative Toppe had here before me, with the fact that we have to ensure that these surgeons are used on priority tasks, and that you don't make it even more lucrative to disappear from the public and operate in, for example. Breast implants on people who would strictly not be a priority in the ordinary health care system – and then we're not talking about the breast cancer group. I have been able to help use private commercial operators, because the public has had a too bad offer. But here I have clearly received a recommendation from public surgeons that we have to make sure that the quality must be good enough, that it is important to ensure interdisciplinaryity, that there is a point that it is public that does most of this, because they have interdisciplinary and quality. They even said that they have experience with women who have been reconstructed, but then get dispersal and relapse, and because you don't have the skills in private, because the plastic surgeons who were supposed to do these reconstructions didn't have the experience to check if the woman is cancer-free, you end up doing these women a bear service. Watch it!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1592	This proposal, which is about to be discussed today, is about setting some policy objectives for our healthcare. It is so simple that we have a patient rights law that provides individual deadlines in relation to serious illness. What the minority is asking for today is that the Stortinget says that the right attached to that law should also apply to breast reconstruction after breast cancer within a minimum of one year, but there are medical conditions that would indicate that a person spends longer time, as the representative No Marte Thorkildsen took up, it can be justified, and one can then exceed that deadline. It's not harder. When the representative of Breen says that the Right as a knowledge party, which is engaged in a knowledge-based policy, does not have time to wait for the working group, it is based on our opinion that setting the objectives of health care is the task of politicians, and then it is the task of the professional groups and the professional community to find out how to achieve the policy objectives. There is nothing to prevent the Storting from agreeing today that the aim is to have a year's guarantee for these women, and then the working group has an even clearer mandate, even in line with the recommendation of the National Council for Quality and Priorities, namely that this is a priority healthcare. There is no need to wait for the recommendations of the trade union council until one sets the kind of clear policy objectives. The representative Kjersti Toppe says that those who work in a private business today are working on ‘the wrong stuff’. She's right about that, and that's what those people who work for themselves say. They tear their hair and are frustrated that they are not allowed to use all the good powers to solve what society has prioritised as important health tasks. But because the government does not do what is in proposal No. 2, i.e. to oblige regional health establishments to enter into agreements with private clinics, they are currently operating beauty operations, even if they would have wanted to operate with what a total collapse wants, namely reconstructing breasts for those who are given priority, in line with public health priorities and assessments. The available capacity could in a very short time turn you from what the representative Toppe calls 'the wrong things' to the right things, if the Storting will, and that's what the Storting can decide for today. In this case, the opposition has been constantly concerned about finding solutions. That's why it's considered quite unfair when the government parties today are almost trying to present it as if we're not solution-oriented. Had the Minister of Health said today that this is the government's goal, we could have helped to submit these proposals, but one takes the time to argue against rather than cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1603	While we're debating, there's a demonstration going on outside. I believe that many of the ladies who have met outside the lion's tray today would have been somewhat provoked if they had heard that Thomas Breen from the Great Council tried to speak on their behalf, for that is what he did. So what they're here to demonstrate is their rights: to get full treatment in connection with a breast cancer operation. That's what this is about. Then I believe that there is no contradiction between the good intentions of No Marte Thorkildsen, compared to the fact that we are going to build up full capacity in the public health system and at the same time take away the queue that is already there. Many of the women who are now waiting have waited a long time. They're figured out, they know their disease image, they know very well what they need, and they also know that there's free capacity in the private health system. I really think the red-green politicians reveal themselves a little in the remarks in the setting. They have therefore felt it important to refer to a response from the Council of State that the government has not restricted the use of private operators, but that it should be up to health businesses. So it's worth mentioning explicitly in a separate note, almost in response to the proposal of the Progress Party and the other opposition parties to ensure that agreements are concluded. The reality is that while we are waiting for a full capacity to be built up in public health, there is full capacity in the private sector. There are operations in progress today in the private sector. What this is really about is the willingness to start taking down the queue of thousands of women who have completed and are ready to undergo surgery. That's what this is about. I think we'd stood up as big as showing ability to act instead of just talking. There are at least a lot of people I've talked to in this case, say, that the time for debate is over. Now you're waiting for action, now you're waiting for a decision, now you're waiting for action. We can talk about that as long as we just can, but nothing happens. The queues don't go down until we actually decide that that's going to happen. It had cost so little to support these proposals, which had sent some clear signals, given a new hope and at the same time helped to bring down a queue that is completely unworthy. For me, this is also about when men undergo a similar operation, or something that feels equally demanding, you get a full treatment course, while half of the population, i.e. women, don't get it. It has to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1620	I just have some comments. The representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos is lucky who has no questions left to ask, because we do, and that's why we want to wait for the working group. Will it have consequences for others? What kind of volume are we going to have? How are we going to be able to educate people? What kind of rights should lie there? Do we know, if we say yes to a waiting time today, if we throw blues in the eyes of those who are now outside? Do we know if we can do this? We may be able to do so in a short time, but we can also get a response when the working group has made its recommendation. Isn't it more right to know if it works? I think the representative Tingelstad Wøien had a very good post. It is a guarantee that everyone should be guaranteed equal treatment. And that's exactly what we're doing by taking some time to help, that is. three weeks. When the representative Reiertsen attacks the girls in the red-green parties and says that we don't care and are a little rude, I just have to protest again: we want new breasts for those who want it, but that's missing, among other things. plastic surgeons – it has appeared in several articles here – because they are used by women for other things, for beauty operations, for unnecessary things. They should be used for what's necessary, namely, new breasts for the girls who need it. I think it's a bit strange discussion. We've heard the opposition say that the private have the capacity, because they say, we can listen to, but the professional advice that the working group is going to offer, we shouldn't get too attached to it. The private clinics cannot be witnesses to the truth that they will accomplish everything they want within one year. We listen to the Medical Association, and they are concerned about the development of competence, education and capacity. We think that's important to look at further. The representative, Höie, says it's about setting political goals, but we want more than setting political goals. We want these girls to have a new breast. That must be feasible. And once again, isn't it feasible by one year, and we're saying that it's going to be from this hall, isn't it to trick someone? At least that's what I mean. We want to know if that's feasible. That is why we want to wait for the working group.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1635	I don't always remember very well, but I remember at least that both the representative Bent Höie and the representative Siv Jensen in this room have tried many times to grill both the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister when the government has made demands for the passage times of cancer. It was automatically converted in the use of words – to a guarantee from the opposition. There have been repeated attempts, both in Question Time and in other forms of debate here in this Chamber, to take the government so that it has not been able to follow up what was required of the systems in terms of lead time. Now, the representative, Höie, says that politicians should set their goals. So here it's an explicit guarantee for a year, and then you get to work against it. I almost have to ask the representative Höie: if you do not reach that goal, is that guarantee worth less because the Storting has adopted it than it is when the government has adopted it? Could it be that even this patient group will feel politically betrayed if it is unable to meet what is a guarantee? I think these kinds of questions are so crucial that the three weeks I wait to get a better overview from the professional board are important enough in itself to wait. The second small point of the debate now is this: when the representative Jensen says that I did not speak on behalf of those out there in the demonstration, I would remind you that both the Cancer Association and the Breast Cancer Opera Association are part of the working group and through the work that gives signals on behalf of their nationwide organisations on what should be the advice. I know that many out there – on the demonstration outside the Storting now – are members of those associations. So that the Storting should not wait for the work, where the two associations are participants, to listen to what advice they give, is also, for me, a bit strange part of this debate. Finally, I believe that we're going to get it done, because it's a huge commitment to building down the queue. All parties agree that the situation is unsustainable. Then I think it's a little sad that there will be political pinnacles left after the day, when you're actually going to end up – even from the opposition’s side – taking a look at the advice that comes in three weeks, and evaluating new policies based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1649	We're talking about three weeks here – that we have to wait three weeks. I just want to remind you that on 6 December 2010, the National Council gave advice on the recommendation that the treatment process should include reconstruction. Then went 2010, 2011 came, 19 October 2011 came the Progress Party with its proposal, 2 December 2011 – a few weeks later – came the Health and Care Department's letter to the Health Directorate about this group that is now going to work until 23 March. So the problem isn't exactly new, and it's taken quite a while before you started working with the working group. My point is that we're all impatient. So to another thing: it concerns some of the women who have been outside here and marked that they don't have the strength to wait any longer. We may not be talking about those who get breast cancer today, who are being treated. But I would think that many of the women have been in line – some of them perhaps for up to seven years – and have not yet received treatment. I want to remember what we did here in Stortinget once before: we made a patient bridge in 2003. It was very effective, and we haven't really talked so much about what we're going to do with all those who've waited so long – whether they're somehow covered by the work that's going on and that's to be done on March 23rd. Perhaps you should create your own action plan, a separate scheme for these, regardless of what you might find out about the future guidelines? It's also a matter that we might have discussed a little bit more here today. It is possible to solve, and I hope that the Minister of Health may be able to say something about this – whether there is a plan for it, and how we can possibly help them not to wait any longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1658	I have had my main post, but I really took the floor to ask the Minister of Health to take the floor, because it looked as if she had not thought so. I find that very bad, because there were some questions I asked her in my post, which I fear I would like to have an answer to. Then I clearly read between the lines that one from the red-green side will preferably wait until one has enough competence in public. But if we ignore it, just forget it, why not do what the representative Davøy suggested, and make a health bridge again? Is there a problem – can't we afford it? Yes, we can afford it. No, get off the line, do the job. The individual person here in the queue may think it's not worth anything. Time is important – time for the individual – and the most valuable thing we can give them is to let them come to get their operation now, and not in one, two, three or four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1665	I have a few comments for Breen, who hassled a little bit that the opposition was not so busy with this selection. He said that there was in fact very broad competence and professional weight in this selection, and referred to the Association for Breast Cancer Operations and Cancer Association. Then I would like to remind Breen that at the hearing both of these, who are part of this committee, supported the proposal that is here today. So we don't have to wait until March 23 to know what they mean. So I think it's a little strange if it's actually that the government parties on March 24 know what they're going to mean, because if it's so short of time until they actually know it, they should have strictly asked the committee to postpone the examination of this matter, then we could get a final examination and a final answer on March 24. But then Laila Davøy asks the Minister of Health if the government actually intends to follow the board, if this sample comes with a advice to set a deadline. The Minister of Health wouldn't answer that. Then I think that the government is actually waiting for, there is no answer, but there is an opportunity to push and push and push the whole issue. That is why it is not possible to pass it on without a discussion of the facts, because this debate has not brought about anything that suggests that some of the proposals will be implemented in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1675	It's a debate with a lot of commitment, and I understand that. Many people are waiting in a queue for some kind of operation. So that's what we're going to do in the future, how this is going to be. So I've been very clear on one thing. I was very pleased that the National Council for Quality and Priorities said that this should be part of the treatment process, because I very much agree with that. It has to be. It shall be part of the course of treatment. But then it's also that when we're going to do that, we know that there are problems with capacity. We know that there are different methods. We know that it should also be considered how to treat the individual patient. A professional group was set up with representatives of all regional health establishments, who are in fact responsible for implementing this. They have been told to put measures in place to reduce the waiting time. So these are specialists in breast surgery and endocrine surgery, plastic surgery, oncology. Thus, the Cancer Association and the Breast Cancer Surgery Association should make a recommendation on which women should receive such an offer — not necessarily from age but from medical point of view — and on what type of offer the individual should have. What rights should the patient group have? How to reduce the need for secondary surgery? What competence is required? Can we use the skills we have and continue training? How is this to be organised? There are a number of questions that we have asked for answers to. It would be very special if, as Minister of Health, I would not take the three weeks and wait for these answers. It's not because this isn't important. It's important for these women to get the help, which I totally agree they need, and which many have waited too long for. But it's because, after all, I'm responsible for doing this in a proper way across the country. It shall be part of the course of treatment. That's why I very much disagree with the representative, Höie, who says I haven't said anything about what I really want. I have said that it is quite clear that this should be part of the course of treatment, because it must also provide predictability for those women who are diagnosed as seriously and must undergo as extensive treatment as breast cancer patients must.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1684	Feedbacks are that there may be a bit of a powerful release from the Progress Party. But it has to. I have a great emotional feeling for this case. I'm very empathetic as a person, and I'm actually proud of that. I'm proud to get to know a lot of women out there who've been waiting for years. That's what I want to bring forward in this hall here, and I hope that it can be accepted. So there were some comments: the representative Sonja Mandt said in his post that there had to be another admission when it was a crazy woman's heart: she wasn't high enough priority. No, it might be time. Wait time has actually become a brake on our lady's health. We can see that in other contexts – including in this context that we are talking about today. And then I get a little worried about this group that's been put down, and she comes up with a recommendation on March 23rd. So the representative Sonja Mandt says that one should not throw blues in the eye of anyone – that they may not get a reconstruction of their breasts, that is. the 4000 who have been waiting for years. Then I get upset, and I almost get panic on behalf of all of those women. Is it that way that they're going to go over once to what that group comes up with, and that maybe one isn't at all a candidate? It's scary, and I hope that's not the case. So this is because we don't have enough plastic surgeons. Yes, perhaps for years there have been misguided policies to keep people in the public health system and, at least, to have a private health system next to them. Then you have to try to balance it a little bit and see, what do we need here? What do we need there? People are independent individuals. You must allow them to choose where they will work themselves. It's always like that, and it should be like that in the future. So it's patient bride: it's very good. We support it in the Progress Party. It is quite clear that something like this should have been done, because I am concerned about those who are waiting, because every day we get a new case. This does not apply to those who are already on the waiting list. They have to do something about it. So it's the health business: Yes, they can go in today and pay at private, says State Council Stroem-Erichsen. Yeah, but what happens? They don't have the money for it. After all, we will have a discrimination between those who may have money and those who do not. Is that right? I didn't think it was a policy that the Labour Party wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1699	I understand that the representative Thomas Breen is concerned about whether the proposal being promoted today would have worked in the same way as the government's objectives for cancer treatment in general, but I can assure him that it would not, because, contrary to the government's deadlines for cancer treatment in general, this contains a proposal for a right fixation under the Patient Rights Act § 2-1b. If Breen reads the setting, he will see that a patient who had not been granted his right within one year could then turn to HELFO and have his right to be executed elsewhere, publicly or privately, in Norway or abroad, like all other patients with patient rights. During the demonstration outside here today, I met a woman from South Africa who had taken up a loan of several hundred thousand kroner in order to carry out such a reconstruction privately. Had what we wanted to adopt today, had been adopted by the Storting, she had not taken up that loan and could have completed the exact same operation. But she could have sent the bill where it belongs, namely in the public health service. Due to their resistance to this type of regulation, the red-green parties are now further strengthening a class-based healthcare system in Norway, where those who can afford to buy out of the queue, while those who cannot afford it have the opportunity to wait. The representative then shows Breen that the Cancer Association is part of the working group – and that is quite right. However, the Cancer Association was also consulted within the Committee and supported this proposal. The Cancer Association and the Breast Cancer Association are drivers of this proposal. They see no contrast between the work of the working group and this proposal – on the contrary. They want this to be adopted here today, and then it is very strange if a representative from the Workers' Party is looking over it and thinking that they do not know their own best.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1710	The representative Thomas Breen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1713	It was the representative of Kjønaas Kjos who made me take the floor, because she asked a rhetorical question about whether we had to wait until March 23rd before we knew what we meant. No, of course not, we know what we mean. We think the queue should go down. We believe that the situation we now have, with 4,000 in queue, is totally unacceptable. That's what we mean. At the same time, we'll be sure of what we're doing, and that's why we want to wait until the 23rd. We want the professional advice in place. Unlike the Right, we have a certain aversion to creating a situation where we are at risk of losing the public health service for even more necessary competence – here plastic surgeons. This can be risked by establishing a system that grants rights that will automatically create a market, and where plastic surgeons can go from public to private health care and double their wages, but operate with things other than what they should strictly do. I mean – to the representative Reiertsen [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1720	The last article in this section in Breen could not be understood differently from the fact that it is better for women to be in a public health queue than to be treated by private individuals. That's exactly what he said. To the representative of Thorkildsen: if she believes that the private offer is not good enough, she must document it and not just refer to some surgeons she has spoken to. It's actually a pretty serious accusation she's bringing here. Both the Cancer Association and the Breast Cancer Surgery Association have recommended this. To bring down the queue, to bring down waiting lists and waiting time for those who need breast reconstruction, they have recommended using free private capacity. They have actually sent a letter to the Minister of Health and referred to special private clinics that can do this job, which would like to do this job and help these women get help. If it is true that the government parties and the government council believe that the capacity of the public should be built up first, the more than 4000 women already in line may be willing to wait even longer. This is about three things. First of all, it's for the women who have had surgery for breast cancer, a right, a priority health care, as the representative Bent Höie was about. Had they had that right, they could actually have been helped in the private offer if there was no free capacity in the public sector. It is about building up sufficient capacity and competence in the public health sector. It seems from some speakers from the government parties that we do not want to do so. Then they should read the setting again and see that there is a broad consensus that we need to expand the capacity and competence of the public. It's very important, not only for women who need reconstruction, but also for everyone else who needs plastic surgery. And it's about the future. It's about those who get this challenge in the future. But we're concerned about what we're going to do with the over 4,000 that are now in line. That's what it's all about here, and then you shouldn't try to pretend that we want anything else. I think that is quite unfair when it is so clear and clear in the setting what the goal is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1739	The representative Åse Michaelsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1742	I had actually expected to get an answer from the Council of State, and I want to repeat the questions I had in my main post: Our fellow sisters in our neighbouring country have a guarantee for a new breast one month after the doctor has given a clear signal. What have they realized in Sweden and Denmark that the Minister for Health has not understood? The second question was: Does the Minister of Health feel satisfied to be responsible for this delay that occurs when the government now seems to vote the proposals? Then I hope I get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1747	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1761	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1770	The representative proposal from Thomsen, Korsberg, Kjos and Eriksson, which calls for an action plan to combat suicide, focuses on a theme that unfortunately is taboo to talk about, but which affects many. The fact that we in the United Kingdom are taking this debate, and at the same time warn that an action plan will be in place, may help to eliminate some of the taboos that are. When we know that 573 people chose to die in 2009, and that this is the highest number registered in ten years, it's important to look at what can prevent this. The number isn't real either. It does not show all the suicide attempts that have been made, or those that are not registered as suicides, but that are. The dark numbers are big. There are a large number of survivors and friends who are left behind. It means that this is also a target group that needs further help in their lives. The Committee is in agreement on the matter and agrees that it is positive that an action plan should be put in place. This was already notified in the national health and care plan. We believe that the plan should be concrete, so that one can evaluate what works and what does not work, and it should also be a tool, so that other actors can use it for guidance and advice. The Committee also considers that there should be a focus on this with self-damage. Self-harm is as taboo as suicide. Self-harm means self-inflicting damage due to internal distress or pain. Also here is the great darkness, and there's a lot of ignorance among those who can help. A 2003 report states that 6.6 pst. has caused self-injury. There's little reason to think that this number is lower now. Here, it turns out that the girls are in majority. There are many websites that offer help, and they do an important information job. There are several who need to be active actors in the prevention of suicide and self-harm. State and municipality must do what they can. Local authorities are close to the population and targeted action can be taken if they are given knowledge and competence on how best to prevent them. Some municipalities have e.g. psychologist present at the health centre for young people, and they can tell that they have caught more young people with suicidal thoughts and left them for more help. The school is also a place where you see the young self-damage, and here employees should be trained to know what to look for, and what kind of offers they can give. It is important for me to commend those organisations that are engaged in suicide prevention and those who are pursuing the follow-up of the survivors. They do an invaluable job, which no public authority can replace. It is therefore important that they be heard when the action plan is to be drawn up and evaluated at a later stage. The fact that an organisation specifically mentioned in LIFE does not mean that others do a less important job. They complement each other, and they all need to be. The public support schemes provide for the operation and may also apply for projects. That way, they have the opportunity to do the job they're good at. Although we are now receiving an action plan, this is a field where we must constantly look at whether there are new good solutions. We need to have good competence in health, in psychiatry and in the firm doctors. The figures show that the incidence is highest among young men, and in particular those under 30 are overrepresented. Then it's scary that between 60 and 80 pst. of those who take their own lives have been in contact with their doctor in the last month. Therefore, it is an important actor in prevention. There should be more psychologists in the municipalities, who can be used actively outside among young people, and measures at the workplace, where one takes hold when one sees someone struggling with difficult days, and we need to have safety nets for family and friends where someone manages to kill himself. I think it was a good proposal that came, although we know that the plan was already under planning. Because it is an important and useful debate that we are raising in this Chamber today. It should not be a taboo to talk about suicide and self-harm. The more we politicians dare to put the spotlight on the public debate, the more society will be involved in preventing and tackling it. We look forward to the action plan being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1796	More than 500 people commit suicide every year. This is more than twice as many people die in traffic every year. Almost daily we can read or see in the news headlines about deaths in traffic. In most cases suicide passes silently. Still, there's a lot of shame and guilt around suicide. This makes it extra demanding to be left as a relative and abandoned. The Progress Party has promoted this proposal because we have seen a need for a whole around the topic, as well as that we believe there is a need for greater transparency. We want a comprehensive plan that takes care of prevention and treatment, as well as follow-up of the survivors, and we want a public debate. The proposal came about after one of our employees experienced that his children chose to take their own life – an experience so terrible that it puts lasting traces and rockings at everything they believed in. The recognition that the relatives react totally differently and process their grief in very different ways, as well as the lack of knowledge and follow-up, led him to ask us to commit suicide on the political agenda. It's hard to understand that so many people find life so difficult that they can't do it anymore. Does this mean that we have a poor offer for those who are struggling? Is there a lack of capacity, or is there a lack of knowledge? Probably it's a little bit of everything. In the journal of the Norwegian Association of Psychologists, issue No. 2 this year, I found an interesting article under the heading ‘When safest treatment is not best treatment’. Here I found much to show why the fight against suicide is demanding and needs several types of instruments compared to old and young, women and men. Statistics show that there is an excess weight in men who die in suicide — they are adults and have denied that they are suicidal. Women fail more, and they are younger, while not denying their situation. These are therefore also more easily caught by the health care system. After talking to several survivors, it became clear that there is no single answer. Some had several attempts behind them and had worn out for years in many areas. Others again gave no warning, and the survivors left behind with a thousand questions that they will never get answers to. Many people have a need to blame, others have a need to blame themselves. A young girl I worked with in a previous job told me about the time her father had committed suicide. Her problem around the event was very special. Her father had had enormous mood swings and had terrorized the family for years. Periodically, he had also practiced violence. The three who sat again, for the first time, could walk around in the apartment without anxiety; they felt free. So what do you do when everyone around you thinks you're in deep sorrow, but what you really feel is a relief? Of course, you think there's something serious wrong with you and will never dry out talking to others about it. So many faces can have grief. Following the promotion of this proposal, the Health Directorate has published a guide on the care of the survivors in the event of suicide. The supervisor is very good and worked through. I sincerely hope that the municipalities will take this into account, as it involves actors such as police, religious and life views representatives, health services, child protection services, kindergarten, school, cohabitation and workplaces, to mention something. It is essential that all municipalities have a preparedness and one body to coordinate the various measures so that the offer is not fragmented. An overall committee underlines the importance of competence and experience. It is important to remember that relatives are not only parents and siblings, but also grandparents, girlfriends, friends and workmates. If you say that behind every suicide there are ten relatives, this means that more than 5,000 people each year need some kind of follow-up from their community. Here, the supervisor will be an important tool. With regard to our proposal for a plan of action to combat suicide, it is gratifying to note that the government has already started such work. The Committee stands together to point out that the action plan needs to be as concrete as possible in order to evaluate the actual functioning of individual actions in retrospect. Furthermore, the Committee focuses on the importance of involving organisations working on this theme in the work on the action plan. In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude for the Committee's strong support for this proposal by the Progress Party. I support the health minister's statement in a letter dated 2 December last year, where she stresses that there is continuous improvement work and that it is important that this work does not stop pending a new action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1826	It is gratifying that an overall recovery confirms the desire for an action plan against suicide and self-harm. We had a debate here in the Chamber on this on 27 October last year, where it was also stated the same thing, not least that the Minister of Health confirmed that this is a work to be started – and is now being confirmed. Suicide is a big problem, it is also self-harm. It turns out that there is a link between self-injury and suicide, or an increased risk of suicide among those involved in self-injury. In particular, this young person is affected, and there is a need to see these two questions in a context. Since we have just had a debate on this topic, I will therefore confine myself to asking the Minister for Health to confirm that the action plan will also include self-harm, as the Committee asks in the vote. The letter of 2 December 2011 refers to the interpolation debate, which was about preventing self-injury and suicide, but it refers only to suicide. I need the Minister of Health to confirm that what the Committee unanimously writes in its position, namely that this should be an action plan against both suicide and self-harm, is something that needs to be done for those who are going to draw up this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1835	First, thank the proposers for putting an important issue on the political agenda. It is a pleasure to reaffirm that the government is preparing a new action plan for the prevention of suicide and self-harm. Over the last few years, more than 500 people have committed suicide every year, and that is the most common cause of death among young men. Suicide leads to far more deaths than road accidents do, but it is far from getting the same attention. Preventing suicide is a social responsibility that requires action in several fields, both in and outside the health system. Health services need to focus their efforts on risk groups in psychiatry in particular and on risk situations that lead to loss experiences. Health surveillance in the state has previously pointed out that health professionals and health institutions have too poor competence and procedures for suicide risk assessment — as is probably the case today. The Health Directorate has previously developed national guidelines for work, so much has been done, but this has not resulted in a reduction in the number of suicides and self-harm. My point is that the assessment of suicide risk is one of the most difficult a meeting as a health care professional. Thoughts about and plans for suicide are not uncommon, especially in people with mental disorders, but suicide and attempted suicide are much less common. And of course, the field is taboo, and in meeting with the health services, a lot of people may refuse to address this particular topic. Three out of four suicides are done by people who are not or have been in contact with the mental health service. Therefore – and here I agree with Sonja Mandt – dedicated key people are working to discover the risk of suicide and prevention. I also agree that several psychologists in the community health service are important, and rapid access to a community psychologist as a low-threshold drug can prevent suicide and attempted suicide. The school health service is very central to this work, but also within the care of the elderly, a few routines should be used to monitor and evaluate suicidal ideation and the risk of suicide among users. We know today that the municipalities have different competences in their provision to care for the survivors. In some municipalities, they have access to the municipality’s emergency response; in others, there is no corresponding follow-up. We need to bet on more follow-up of the relatives and the survivors and to strengthen the peer work that is going on. Many organisations work preventively, in addition to the work done in the public sector. I think that the Church's Bymition on the phone in connection with the 2012 budget said that a large number of intruders to their contact telephone were people who had suicidal thoughts. The centre party is very pleased that the government is now working for a new action plan to replace today's strategy, and we are looking forward to it being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1856	As many people have experienced, more than 500 people commit suicide each year, and 4 000 to 6 000 are admitted due to attempted suicide. In addition, there are those people who go on suicidal thoughts or commit self-harm every day. For most people, self-damage and suicide are unmistakable and incomprehensible, and we often ask why. A patient can tell the following: I had had the nasty feeling for so long, but I had no relief until I learned to stick in my thigh with a pencil. For the first time I found something that worked, and I cried out of pain and joy. A reduction in suicide and self-harm requires a reinforced and early effort. Here, the school health service and the mental health service for children and young people in the municipalities are absolutely essential. So it is alarming that as many as 16 p.m. of the municipalities warn of a cut in the mental health provision of children and young people. It has been cut over 220 annual works in this offer only since 2008. Most seriously, it doesn't seem to be any improvement in the near future. Suicide rates have increased dramatically in some of the younger age groups over the past 40 years. There is extensive evidence that many young people are struggling with mental problems. I therefore want to raise questions about the waiting time guarantee for mental health care for children and young people is good enough when children and young people under the age of 23 with a need for treatment are not guaranteed treatment until after 65 working days. This means approximately. three months awaiting the necessary health care. Although the guarantee is there, we have all voted in favour of it and it is positive, it has not been given today that you receive treatment within the prescribed limits. I wish we had a goal that no children and young people should have to wait for treatment for their mental damage – three months may be very long. I also want to focus on the elderly. Loneliness, isolation and the loss of the nearest population also lead to a very high rate of suicide among the older age group. In prevention work, it will also be important to draw attention to older people who have changed their life situation. There is evidence that older people are generally reluctant to seek help. It is therefore important that the prevention of the elderly is based on an outreach offer that takes care of those who have lost some of their loved ones or who live in solitude. Suicide turns down on the lives of the survivors. Research shows that many of the survivors are left with significant health damage both physically and mentally. There is also a greater risk of suicide attempts and suicides among the survivors. The National Association for the Survivors of Suicide reports that many survivors point out that the assistance from the professional auxiliaries is too short-lived or that it is completely absent. We have to take that seriously. In fact, although all municipalities today have established crisis teams, there is a great deal of lack of competence here. Finally, I would like to mention the amazing efforts of the voluntary and non-profit organisations, such as. the organisation LIVE. Another example is the Church's SOS, with its 1,000 highly qualified volunteer workers. Every day they talk to people in crisis for 100 hours. Such organisations are important to those who use them, to their relatives and to the rest of society. The Christian People's Party, as many have already said, is very pleased with the signal that a new action plan is on the stairs, and we are looking forward to this coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1875	There are sensitive questions we have to discuss today. Suicide attempts, suicides and suicides after suicide involve strong feelings and traumas. As a society, we need to deal with and do something about these issues, both in order to prevent and to provide good help and assistance to the survivors. Last October the Stortinget had a thorough and good interplay about suicide made by the representative Höie. The debate showed that there is a broad political consensus on a stronger effort to prevent suicide. That's good. As has also been said here, we have started work on a new action plan on suicide and self-harm – in order to confirm the question raised by the representative of Höie. The plan will address many of the themes that proposers are concerned with and that were central to the interpellation. The plan will also contribute to a public debate, and I hope it will also help to reduce the taboo related to suicide. We will focus on prevention in the action plan. We have to catch up on signals in time and know what to do. This must happen in those arenas where children, young people, adults and old people live their lives. The effort must be more than that of healthcare. Voluntary organisations have a very central place in the work of the new action plan. The National Association for the Prevention of Suicide and Suicide, the National Association for the Survivors after Suicide, Mental Health Norway, Adults for Children and other NPISHs do a very important job. We must try to create framework conditions and structures that help us to achieve the best possible overall prevention and follow-up. Already, the five regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention are responsible for establishing networks in their region and are involved in cooperation with the voluntary sector. Survivors after suicide are a group that needs to be given greater attention. The Health Directorate recently presented a new guide, which the representative of Kjønaas Kjos mentioned positively, on how professional and volunteer workers can meet. A few weeks ago, I met representatives of the organization Young LIFE. It was a strong meeting with young people who had valuable experience communicating. I understand that we do not meet children and young people who experience suicide among their neighbors, in a good enough way. Their knowledge and experience are important in the work on a new plan. The meeting with the young also showed how important it is to do something about the taboos around suicide. We have to dry to talk about what's bad. It is a responsibility that also imposes on us politicians. Before Easter, I will meet the user organisations and professional communities for a wide-ranging consultation on challenges and possible responses to suicide and self-harm. This will be an important part of the work on the action plan. I will come back to Stortinget with a briefing on the work on the plan in the state budget for 2013, and I am aiming to ensure that the plan can be presented by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1894	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1908	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1917	This proposal by the representatives of the local authorities Erna Solberg, Bent Höie and Sonja Irene Sjøli deals with several proposals for measures to improve the quality and patient safety of healthcare services. The Committee stresses the need for systematic work in this field and refers to the Council of State letter of 12 December annexed to it. The Committee looks forward to the notification of quality and patient safety and points out that several individual measures to improve patient safety have already been implemented. The plurality of the Committee, members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, calls for the concrete proposals in the proposal for a representative to be assessed in the further work on the Single European Act and for the proposal for a representative to be annexed to the Book of Meetings. The fact that the Storting is busy with better patient safety is very affordable in all ways, because too many people get injured in health services. Investigations indicate that 15 pst. in 2010 and that as many as 4,500, perhaps even more, may have died of the injuries. International studies suggest that half of the injuries are attributable to defects and injuries that could be prevented. There will always be a risk associated with treatments in the health care system, but also what is not initially thought of as a concrete harm may have fatal outcomes for patients. Hospital infections may cause serious complications. Sub-nutrition can complicate states and present a risk. Work to improve patient safety needs to penetrate the health system from political and administrative guidance to every department and health worker. Proposalers come up with concrete proposals to improve quality and patient safety. Many of the proposals are the big deal. So the reason why the government party doesn't go into all of the proposals here is because there's a big message on this topic. Several measures have already been taken. The national safety campaign ‘In the safe hands’ is one important measure. In the mission documents of the regional enterprises, several management parameters relate to quality. These may become even more specific. Local authorities are encouraged to deal with the political reports that come from the supervision of health services — that is important. Systematic work requirements for quality improvement and patient and user safety have been incorporated into new municipal health and care services law. It has been required by law that the activities providing health and care services should acquire user experience. A selection of its own has looked at patients and their relatives in matters of oversight. The notification system has been modified to strengthen the scheme on learning purposes and a separate printing group has been set up in the State Health Authority. Unfortunately, there are several examples that relatives have not been met in a good way after bad events have occurred. The development of specific guidelines for the encounter of patients and their relatives may be justified. This, together with the other concrete proposals presented in the proposal for a representative, must be appreciated in the new Single European Act. But the important thing is to focus on developing a culture of openness in health, where learning about own mistakes and prevention of injuries and unfortunate events is dominated. Survivors must be considered a resource in this task. It must also apply to community health services on the same lines as specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1932	We are all concerned with better quality health and care services. That is why I am pleased that we have a health minister who has put the issue on the agenda to the highest degree. She has, probably as the first health minister in the world, started a national screening of the extent of patient injury in all healthcare companies. This monitoring is important in order to get an overview of the injuries associated with patient stays. It will provide us with a basis for future work on quality of service. The Health Minister announced a big message about quality and patient safety a year ago and that it would also cover the entire healthcare system, including dental care. Now you can get the impression, on the basis of the proposal we are dealing with here today, that nothing is happening pending the notification, but that does not lead to correctness. As the Minister himself points out in his reply to the Committee, several of the proposals in the case are related to areas where measures have already been taken, such as: the patient safety campaign ‘In the safe hands’, which implements a number of measures in the healthcare service for the improvement of patient safety. Requirements for quality and patient safety committees in municipalities and health businesses were adopted in the new legislation that came into force from the New Year. The new legislation also requires both the municipality and healthcare companies to acquire user experience and views from both patients and relatives. Of course, these should be used in improvement efforts to improve quality and patient safety. 24 of the 26 governance parameters provided by the Minister for Health in the mission documents are about waiting times, service and data quality. This shows that the focus on quality is high. A sample has been launched to look at how substantial information from patients and relatives should emerge and contribute to quality improvement and improved patient safety. The committee makes important proposals concerning the position of patients and their relatives in supervisory matters. In the autumn, the big news comes, and I am pleased that the Minister of Health has said that the patient and user perspective will receive a lot of attention in the notification. Even though we have among the world's best health services, we all agree that it can get better. That is why it is good that the Minister of Health now does a thorough work on the notification and retrieves input from patients, relatives, trade unions, etc., so that the Stortinge will have a thorough and broad basis for dealing with the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1949	It is not the first time that this Committee discusses patient safety and quality in healthcare. That's good, because it's important to keep a pressure on this, so that patients can get a safe health offer, and that we can have a continuous quality improvement. The Patient Safety Campaign ‘In Safe Hands’, which showed us that the number of unwanted deaths in 2010 had increased to 4,700, is alarmingly high. But it's anyway incredibly important that there's transparency about such facts. It should not be underestimated that medical treatment and surgical procedures are associated with a certain hazard. Just because all people are unique, we will also see individual differences in how each individual responds to treatment. For many years our health care system has appeared to be a closed life. On the basis of both professional secrecy and ethics, it has not been legitimate to talk about accidents and, at least, not unwanted deaths. Fortunately, that time is over, but there is still a long way to go before all our health businesses have set up systems to learn from each other's mistakes in order to improve their own quality and prevent adverse events. I feel that the community health service is far behind the hospitals, and I am pleased to note that the Hospital Østfold is leading a culture of transparency. Not many years have passed since any publication of an unwanted incident on the part of the hospital resulted in a first-page headline in the VG. It seemed that VG had its own journalist who was dedicated to reading the hospital's postal records, where it was openly described adverse events in an anonymous way. This, as I said, resulted in the journalist making a scandalous announcement under the VG revealed. There was a period of shame and almost no fear of telling them that they were working at the Hospital Østfold because of the negative media drive. But fortunately, the hospital management opposed the pressure that arose in the wake of this, and insisted with its transparency in the assurance that it would be an important element of the quality improvement work. The party has been concerned that quality indicators should be developed for hospitals, such as patients. be able to use for the free choice of hospitals. Unfortunately, we feel that there is not the same progress in the development of such indicators under this government as we saw under the civil government. Already in 2007, Peter F. Hjort went out with an estimate that there could be more than 4,000 unwanted deaths in Norwegian hospitals. He pointed out that it should be possible to halve this number by systematic work. Of course, it is positive that the government has launched the patient safety campaign, and we also look forward to the announced quality and patient safety alert. But in our opinion, the work is going too slow. When Hjort pointed to the possibility of halving the number of deaths due to unfortunate circumstances five years ago, and today we see that the number actually seems to be higher than that time, there is reason to be impatient. When the government parties in the vote go so far as to ask that the proposals presented in the proposal for a representative be evaluated in the process of the Single European Act, a political system in which a majority government cannot be governed by the Stortinget can no longer be expected. The right has promoted the proposal, and in committee we have tried to help others. Since the government parties point to the proposal for a representative and not also to the vote, there are some proposals I would like to make. The first concerns the relationship between the ambulance service and the hospital. Everyone is familiar with the importance of good prehospital services. But their learning process is stopped by the obligation of professional secrecy at the hospital door. They are not currently given the opportunity to evaluate their own treatment in an overall manner on the basis of professional secrecy. Here something has to be done. We're talking about good patient paths, and then we have to have learning processes that cover the whole process. We can't have it so that ambulance staff are given the opportunity to read death announcements to get an indication of whether the treatment they started was right or crazy. The next thing I want to mention is the police's need for investigation skills on health issues and the possibility for relatives to get an aid lawyer in connection with unfortunate incidents leading to death. It is important to have the necessary legal certainty also within the hospital doors, which we have outside the doors. Finally, I would like to mention a small tipper from the Progress Party that patients should have the opportunity to report their perceived deviations into the same aberration systems that healthcare professionals use. This is once again about whole learning processes, and experienced quality should be as important as professionally assessed quality. We have to believe that we have good ICT systems in place that can handle the deviation messages, and that electronic ID will be able to distinguish what is reported by a doctor, a nurse and a patient. It's this way that we can get an overall quality system, and I hope that we'll eventually get the other parts with us. With this I will be able to address the proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1977	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e1980	I would like to start by thanking in particular for the support of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to 18 points in the position on improving patient safety and quality in healthcare. This is an important topic which, fortunately, has received increasing attention. Right-wing promotion of a similar comprehensive proposal in 2009. It didn't get the same reception at the time. After that, not least those from the health care community who have experienced the loss of their loved ones have taken very much note of this topic. I would also like to commend the Minister of Health who has addressed this, launched campaigns and not least announced that the government is now working on its own big message about this, which is to come to the autumn. It looks right up to. When the Right nevertheless promotes these proposals, it is because we believe that there are some measures that can now be implemented. We believe that there are measures that can be debated around, which it is important to have a debate around. But it is also not to ignore that when we promote these proposals now, it is with great hope that the government will pick freely from them, so that we recognize some of them in what comes in the big news of the fall. It is the most effective way of influencing policy in the opposition. When a meeting this question, it is not possible to just give a single answer, a single solution. It is precisely the overall approach that is needed. Although this is 18 points, there are three areas that I think it's absolutely important to do something about. It's to encourage balanced management to put in place better quality assurance systems to create a learning culture; It is not possible just to extract one of these areas and to believe that one can achieve the objectives of improved patient safety and quality. One has to work with all three of these overall strategies simultaneously and included. That is why it is also right that a person should be informed about this in full. Health services have much to learn from other areas of society in these areas. In Norway, it is natural to look at the petroleum industry that has been working on this systematically for very many years, with very good results. One has a similar opportunity to learn from aviation. It's not time to mention all of these 18 points in an article, but I'll still come up with some suggestions in each area. Balanced management is about management's attention being as high, and preferably greater, on quality and patient safety as on financial management. We believe it is right that the Storting should start with itself, because the Storting's discussion about health in connection with the state budget is very much influenced by the economic framework and not by results and security. Therefore, a modelled approach from the Privacy Policy Communication should establish a dedicated patient safety alert that takes into account both the nationwide supervision of the Health Authority and the work of patient representatives, thereby providing an annual monitoring message and a debate on patient safety status. So the Storting as the top body will also show that we care about this as much as the annual budgets. With regard to systems, there will be a need to put in place more national governance related to better internal control systems and an ISO certification requirement, which one has in other areas of society. It should just be lacking that one did not have this in the field of health where there is so much high-risk activity going on. When it comes to culture, it's really amazing that part of our society that is so heavily influenced by people with very high and long education, so little is a learning organization in the form of learning from mistakes that others have made, and being open to their own mistakes. Here, there's a need to do a lot of work to change this culture. The opposition believes that setting up a disaster commission that independently passes through the most serious incidents and analyses them will be one that can change culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2011	There is a cross-political consensus that a public health service is to be provided, all of which are guaranteed equivalent and good health services. Such a service does not live on budgetary resources and good words alone; it also depends entirely on the confidence of the patients. Several times I have had strong encounters with relatives who have experienced the loss of one of their loved ones, often quite unnecessary. This type of experience breaks down trust. Patient safety must be high-seat, and since we are treating more and more patients and treatment is becoming more and more advanced due to medical and technological developments, good practices and high levels of competence must be the pillars of health care confidence building. We cannot be aware of the fact that there is a culture in the health system where unfortunate events are not reported or investigated. It is therefore interesting to see what results from the patient safety campaign ‘In safe hands’ and what information comes out of it. This is not primarily about what individuals have done, but about system failures and inability to learn from errors. We need to have a culture in healthcare that is open and learning. For a short time, the director of the State Health Authority said that the hospitals neither learn from their own faults nor from others, and that health companies do not know where the weaknesses lie. He further elaborated that hospitals are not learning organisations using supervisory reports, their own experiences and records of accidents and almost accidental accidents to improve quality. Furthermore, he said that management does not take sufficiently clear responsibility for the soundness of the treatment, that health care companies lack management systems and internal control, and lastly that management does not know the quality of the service and where the weaknesses lie. I want to go so far as to say that this looks like a system crisis. As long as it takes place up to 4,500 unnatural deaths in Norwegian hospitals, I do not think we can boast about having the best healthcare in the world. The size of health budgets also says nothing about the quality of services. All these health surveillance reports show how important it is for the patient safety campaign to be launched, and we are all pleased about that. The Christian People's Party still believes that a health sector disaster commission should be set up according to the model of the transport sector, which has previously been voted down by the government parties in Stortinget. Today's systems aren't good enough to clean up. It may not be the healthcare that should consider itself as it is now. External reviews and analyses of unnatural deaths and unfortunate events are needed. I want to convey that I believe that the system we have today is not good enough. The Christian People's Party will also develop special expertise in the police in investigating matters in the health sector. We believe it is important to ensure the independence of the police. Despite the fact that the police can now acquire expert expertise elsewhere, there may be conflicts of loyalty, and we know that the medical environment in Norway is very small. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party will provide patients and relatives with good information about adverse events, that consequences and possibilities of complaint and redress are highlighted, and that this will be properly reported. Traditionally, hospitals have been closed and hierarchically managed organisations, where patients have been passive recipients of services. It's no longer like that, fortunately. In recent years, the right to treatment and to user involvement has become increasingly new. It's incredibly positive. Still, we're not in port. We mean we have a long way to go. Information on adverse events will strengthen the trust of patients and their relatives in healthcare. All in all: Christian People's Party will convey that we support the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3, as shown in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2034	There should be no doubt that the government is concerned with improving the quality of healthcare services. That's exactly why I announced a year ago that in 2012 I would present Norway's first big message on this topic. Norwegian health workers are good, but need to get even better. As you know, I am working on a comprehensive process of recording the Storing message, so that the Storing can have the broadest possible basis for discussing quality and patient safety. We already know a lot about the quality of the Norwegian health care system. OECD figures show that we are among the best in the world on the survival of serious diseases such as cancer, acute heart attack and acute stroke. Then I just want to make a comment to the representative Laila Davøy, who says that it is not the budgets that can decide; no, I fully agree. But we can't ignore international measurements, they're actually quite important to us. The patient safety campaign, which we are in the process of implementing, has revealed that approximately 16 pst. of the patient stays in Norwegian health establishments were associated with at least one injury in 2010. Furthermore, studies show that we can become much better at accessibility, service and user involvement. Systematic work is essential for good quality and for improving patient safety. This is a legal requirement of the Special Health Service Act and the Municipal Health and Care Act. The government will continue to develop quality measurements, demand quality and have full transparency about the results. Local government, health business managers and managers at all levels must also demand quality and patient safety and have insight into risk conditions. The debate on the notification system, the call-out group and the accident commission shows that there are different opinions on the measures to promote learning and the legal certainty of patients. The disfellowshipping team was established to strengthen the supervisory follow-up of serious adverse events. Like a accident commission, it aims to identify the causes of serious incidents. As of 1 July, the Knowledge Centre shall receive notices of events which have caused – or could have caused – significant damage to patients. Notifications to the Knowledge Centre may not be used as a basis for penalties but as a basis for learning. The Knowledge Centre shall support the responsibilities of healthcare for the analysis of causes, lessons learned from and prevention of similar events. They shall also propose measures for the service and national authorities. This type of notification scheme is recommended by the EU, the World Health Organisation and the Council of Europe. This year's cancellation notice shall cover the entire healthcare and dental care service. It shall show the policy course to promote a health service of good quality and patient safety. Today’s quality and patient safety work will be continued and further developed in parallel with the design of the Storing Communication. The patient and user perspective is given high attention in the notification. The ministry has its own website where everyone is welcome with recordings. We also conduct dialogue meetings with patient and stakeholder organisations, professional communities, trade unions and other actors. The Communication will discuss the need to amend legal, pedagogical, organisational and economic instruments. In Sweden, for example, related economic instruments for patient safety. We will assess whether economic instruments are necessary to promote good quality. The representative proposal from the Right has many good suggestions. As my letter to the Committee shows, several of the recommendations are in line with the measures we have already taken. Other recommendations have been addressed through ongoing processes. I can assure you that all the recommendations will be considered in the work on the Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2065	What is the reason given by the Council of State that the government does not want the police to be guaranteed sufficient investigative powers to investigate unfortunate deaths in hospitals, and why will the government not give the relatives the opportunity to get an aid lawyer in such a situation? Is it true that the government is only concerned with quality and learning processes, and that the legal certainty of patients and their relatives within the walls of the hospital is of secondary importance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2071	It is not that we are not concerned about finding the reason why errors happen. When serious incidents occur, they shall be notified to the Health Authority. Health surveillance shall make its own assessment of their exit. Deaths are also reported, and the police are notified of this – of course they should. So now we're going to do an evaluation of the exclamation unit that we've established, make a thorough assessment of how it's worked, and whether it's going to change. But I just have to ask that we have to do that evaluation when we have now had this scheme for two years. I think it's changed a lot from handling serious incidents and focusing on it. In addition, hospitals have been given a statutory obligation to notify of the serious incidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2078	I would first like to thank the Council of State for including the proposals from the Right in the further work, that we do not need to send them back to the Ministry's website, but that they are registered. Then I have a question related to the fact that the Right for a while back promoted a proposal for a representative to give patients a position as a party in their cases in connection with the fact that there had been errors in the healthcare system. As a follow-up to the Minister for Health, a working group that has made a recommendation has now been consulted. I wonder when this will be followed up by the government, whether this is going to be promoted as a matter of its own, or whether it will be related to a big deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2085	With regard to this proposal for a representative, I also hope that the representative, Mr Höie, has come to the conclusion that many of these proposals are already in place. I just want to say in connection with the representative Gåsvatn said that we had not brought so many new quality indicators: well, in 2011, we came with 18 new ones, and we brought more. So there's pretty good speed at that work. When it comes to becoming a party to the case, it is right that we have had a job on it. We have had a working group, and we have also had a hearing in this regard. I think it's natural that it also becomes part of the Storing Message, and sees it in the context of how we handle the work and the post-work in connection with serious events.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2092	I have a question about the callout group. As many as 4,500 people die unnaturally every year in hospitals, and that's a hugely high number. Now that we've seen – at least if it's right – that the call-out group may have moved out less than ten times after it was set up, does the Minister of Health think it's enough? At least I've made myself think: do they pluck out often enough? That's the one question. The second question is, how does the department follow the work that is going on, so that they can assure us that you move out often enough? We also know that very many of these deaths could have been avoided if they had learned from what happened. Then I think it's an incredibly small call-out capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2099	These deaths are caused by an injury. It is said that half could have been prevented. Some of these deaths occur because there are very ill patients. You try a treatment, and there's not necessarily someone who can load it because it happens. But yet it's a very high number. I would also like to stress that this is not so easy to compare with other countries, because no one else has done this type of research as comprehensive as what we have done. But once we've done that, it's just to be able to prevent and see how we're going to work on patient safety. It is clear that I have also asked myself the question: Does this exclamation unit often pop out enough? What about other types of units you can compare with? It is difficult because it is special, but it is part of what will be reviewed in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2106	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2122	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2131	The proposal under consideration is to provide a genuine guarantee of treatment for cancer patients. In the proposal, such a guarantee includes a legal right to treatment within 20 working days if there are no medical grounds for longer treatment. There is broad consensus in the Committee that patients affected by cancer should be treated promptly and that treatment should be of high quality. Most people today receive good and rapid help, and because of the high quality of the Norwegian healthcare system, most cancers also survive and become completely healthy. To have to wait a long time before getting a response to tests, to have to wait before making a diagnosis, and to have to wait, when you know that you need treatment, to start treatment, is too much – I would say all – to be a major psychological strain. Clearly, both patients and families become anxious and fearful when they do not receive prompt answers and prompt treatment. In the case of cancer survival, an improvement in results has been recorded in recent years for a number of cancer diagnoses, such as cervical cancer, breast cancer – which has been discussed earlier today – and colon cancer. In these areas, according to the OECD, Norway is the best in the Nordic region. But it is possible to bring down the waiting time even more. That is why hospitals are constantly working today to reduce waiting time. At the same time, the Council of State has called on health companies to provide 80 pst. cancer patients must undergo treatment within 20 working days, and in order to achieve this, hospitals must identify bottlenecks and improve organisation. Last summer, indicative lead-times were set in the cancer field, and this year the Health Directorate will follow up the time spent by hospitals. So this case is not about whether we want cancer patients to be treated quickly or not, but whether we believe that a treatment guarantee is the right tool to ensure that patients are treated more quickly. In its examination of this matter, the Committee draws attention in particular to the involvement of the Medical Association in the hearing of the Committee. The medical association believes that the provision of a general treatment guarantee for patient groups is problematic in principle. An individual assessment of the individual patient’s situation shall be carried out, and thus an individual assessment of the period of time for which it is appropriate to wait for the individual patient. This is in agreement with the majority of the Committee. A specific treatment guarantee alongside that provided by patients under the Patient Rights Act will not be an effective tool to improve the treatment provision of cancer patients. The majority of the Committee therefore proposes that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2148	There is a broad consensus that patients affected by cancer should be treated promptly and that treatment should be of high quality. It is also agreed that although most people receive good and rapid help today, there are still many who have to wait too long before treatment is started. Of course, it can give rise to anxiety both for patients and for their families. For this reason, it is positive that the government last summer set indicative lead-times in the field of cancer and that the hospital's time-use will be followed up by the Health Directorate, who will report these figures to the Department. Health care companies have also been required to provide 80 pst. patients must be on treatment within 20 working days. Of course, in order to achieve that objective, health businesses need to identify bottlenecks and better organise their supply. When that's said 80 pst. and not 100 pst., it is because some cases will take more than 20 days to investigate. When the committee was in Bergen earlier this week, we were told about the investigation of cancer and the use of PET scans. The doctor we talked to was clear that sometimes it was important to spend longer on investigation than 20 days. It could have an impact on the patient’s treatment, which in turn could have an impact on the outcome of the treatment and could perhaps also reduce the adverse effects that the patient could have on the treatment. It shows that it is not just for us politicians to adopt a legal right when we cannot fully see the consequences of it. It is important that we allow professionals to assess what is right in each case. It is also important that we, as politicians, have a responsibility to ensure that health and care services receive the necessary growth and that there are clear governance requirements. I join the Minister of Health when she says that legal rights do not increase the capacity of patient treatment. Competence and capacity in cancer treatment are not altered by law, but by organisation, prioritisation and resource supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2163	The joy was great in the Progress Party when Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, after several things in the media picture about poor cancer care, promised the summer last year a treatment course of 20 days for cancer patients. The Health Minister followed up with the same promise and actually gave a guarantee a few days later. This created high expectations for a faster and better treatment for many cancer patients. So it is not right, as the representative Breen said earlier today from this pulpit, that the guarantee is something the opposition has found out – it was actually the Health Council itself that used the word “guarantee” in its time. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have spent time after this to proliferate away from the guarantee. We've had that discussion in Stortinget several times without it looking like we're getting any further. The important thing in this case, however, is not whether the government has broken yet another promise to the Norwegian people. It's probably the most people -- the voters -- are able to judge for themselves. The most important thing is how we can get sick people to get the best treatment possible, and therefore, in this debate, I should leave the previous. However, it is worth noting that the 20-day treatment period for cancer patients is not a proposal The Progress Party has come up with – it is the Health Directorate’s professional recommendation to ensure good treatment for patients, i.e. within 20 days for 80 pst. by the patients. The Council of State justifies its rejection of this proposal because there are other measures that are more crucial to ensuring good treatment for cancer patients than a treatment guarantee. In this context, the Council of State shows that capacity and competence are more important than treatment guarantee. It is therefore extremely strange that in the last two years, government parties have voted in favour of a number of proposals that have met the need for both capacity and competence, which the Council of State now considers to be the most important thing. It is also strange that the Health Directorate is so clear on a medical deadline for treatment, if it is not really relevant to the provision of patients. In this case, the Council of State changes the reasoning on an ongoing basis, as I perceive it, in order to escape its own promises. It is also worth noting that the Cancer Association supports this proposal, based on the same argument that the opposition is making today. I find it hard to believe that it would do so if this wasn't important for the very patients. This also shows, in my opinion, that the argument does not hold water. For me, it is obvious that when the medical assessment indicates that treatment should start, it should actually start. Today, government parties say no. It will help to reinforce the trend of a formidable increase in private health insurance. State Council Stroem-Erichsen is, as we understand it, the best friend of the private insurance companies. While health cows are growing and classy society is becoming more and more obvious, resource-intensive people buy themselves out of the health queue and leave to those who don't have much from before to stand in the public waiting queue. It is an unsocial policy, to which the Progress Party will mark a distance. In this case, government parties could promote a number of other proposals rather than a guarantee of treatment if it was considered important. So you don't want to do that. It clearly shows that this government is empty of ideas about how to improve the health system. Norwegian cancer patients deserve a real treatment guarantee when they are affected by this cruel disease. In these words, I would like to address the proposals in the case that the Advance Party – together with the Right and Christian People's Party – is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2196	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2199	This is the third case The Stortinget is dealing with today where opposition parties again go ahead, by proposing to give individual patients the right to health care. It's actually a repetition of a story that goes back a lot of years in time, given that it's these parties that fought at first the first waiting guarantee, it's these parties that fought the individual medical deadline for patients, and it's also these parties that are proposing today to improve this system. Every time one has made these proposals, the arguments have been strikingly similar: one should rather work to increase the capacity of the public health system, the system must be allowed to work on these tasks, one should have objectives instead of guarantees, etc. Whatever you've suggested, the arguments have been the same. But every time the parties that are in opposition today have had a majority and have implemented their policies, there has never been anyone who has proposed to reverse what we have adopted. I am convinced that this will also happen when the kind of rights that we have dealt with today are adopted. The Cancer Association told the Committee at the hearing that the government's promise should become a legal right and they support the proposal for a representative. And so does the right. We believe that when the Health Authority is so clear that there is a medical grounds for having such short deadlines, it should also characterise the individual deadlines set by the Health Service for cancer patients. Then, of course, there will be exceptions where there are medical reasons to wait longer, where there are studies that need to be taken and where it takes longer to get answers. But it's fully possible within today's system to record that justification, which makes it clear which situation you're in. What is happening today is that it is a growing private insurance market related to cancer, it is a growing private diagnostic market related to cancer, and it is going to be a growing private treatment market when it comes to cancer. If someone had said 10 or 20 years ago that in Norway there would also be a private market for cancer diagnosis and treatment, I don't think any political parties would ever believe it, because cancer belongs to the area that you've thought the public has prioritised highly – it's a priority disease. This is an area where one would never have thought it could arise a private market. That's what it's done. This means that today prostate cancer patients travel to Sweden and have private prostate cancer operations carried out, which they either pay for themselves or for which it is paid through insurance companies. The proposal on the table today would enable all patients in Norway, regardless of whether they have a private health insurance, regardless of whether they have a good economy, to have exactly the same rights as those who have a thick wallet or a private health insurance. Thus, this is a proposal that means that we improve our health care system in the direction that we hold back the fact that it is a public task to provide health care to everyone, regardless of whether you have a good or a bad economy, regardless of social status, knowledge and friendship in health care. Therefore, this is an important proposal to ensure that we have a good public health system, and that we have a health system that provides equal opportunities for all patients, regardless of social status.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2214	In Norway, more and more recent statistics on survival after cancer treatment have been obtained in recent years. It particularly affects cancers such as breast cancer, cervical cancer, and colon cancer. However, many cancer patients experience that they have to wait too long for treatment. There is broad political agreement that the time allowed for distribution and other pre-treatment needs to be reduced. The government has agreed on a guide for cancer treatment in general. The Health Directorate has been tasked with carefully monitoring the time spent by hospitals in cancer patients. The target is 80 pst. patients should be on treatment after 20 working days. During this time, treatment distribution, diagnosis and planning takes place. This objective is in line with the professional advice of the Health Directorate. The proposers propose to create what they call a ‘real therapeutic guarantee for cancer patients’, which means a legal right to treatment within 20 working days if there are no medical reasons for longer treatment. I want to show you that the Lege Association in its audio output writes: ‘Specific treatment guarantees for patient groups are, in principle, problematic and not only sufficient to achieve the desired objectives of increasing the capacity and quality of the offer.’ I would also like to refer to what the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee: «Competence and capacity in cancer treatment are not altered by law, but by organisation, prioritisation and resource supply.» The central part is completely united in these opposites. A specific legal right for cancer patients, as well as the one they have in patients’ rights laws, will not be a precise tool to improve treatment provision. Today, we have dealt with a number of issues that concern the setting of deadlines and rights for healthcare treatment. I think it is a reflection that the way Stortinget controls and wants to secure capacity is by developing the justice system further, with more and more legally binding deadlines for more and more treatments and diagnostics. This will also avoid the difficult debate, i.e. the prioritisation between groups. The question at the other end is whether the terms and conditions really get their value. When temporial breaks become a quality parameter in the specialist services, a reflection can at least begin. In the context of the proposal for a representative that we are dealing with today, I believe that the important thing is that a common increase is some to work diligently to ensure that cancer patients receive a better supply and shorter treatment and that waiting times should decrease. We disagree whether there is a legal right that is the decisive factor in this work or not. And so is the fact that the biggest curve in cancer diagnosis may not be in the specialist services, but in the patient himself, who does not seek medical attention and/or ignore symptoms, and in the firm doctor. At least in relation to survival, it is important that efforts in cancer care should be stepped up in this area as well. Then I have a comment to the representative Bent Höie's example when it applies to prostate treatment. This was up in the media just before Christmas, in a look-up in Bergen's Official Journal about a patient who had gone abroad for surgery. An expert went out after this look-up and said that some prostate cancer patients actually have a good time waiting for treatment, while the private clinics tend to have the most possible patients into the robot they have. They have an economic incentive to receive these patients. So it's not entirely unproblematic with the private part of the health care system also in cancer treatment. We should be sure that there is a professional basis for the treatment being given and that there is no financial incentive for taking patients for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2242	In a consultation note on the last budgetary procedure of the Health and Welfare Committee, the Foundation «Inner 48 hours» wrote the following: ‘The period from the suspicion of cancer to diagnosis is essential for survival. Every day people die in Norway because the diagnosis was made too late. Treatment is different for different cancers, and for some cancers starting within 20 days is not critical. For other cancers, 20 days are the difference between survival and death.» The government has been more unclear than clear to cancer patients lately, is my claim. One example is the call for a treatment guarantee within 20 days, which has become an objective. This is at least how patients perceive this, and once again they have more questions than before. When the opposition now proposes an obliging guarantee of cancer, which is consistent with the electoral pledge given by the Prime Minister at a press conference last summer, the Minister of Health responds, among other things. such a right is not an effective instrument for cancer patients. I don't think cancer patients agree. Time and again, we hear the government's response to the health problems, most recently presented by the Prime Minister in the Questionnaire a few weeks ago. Then he said that ‘we now have one of the world’s best health services. Where we have comparable numbers, for example: in the case of cancer, Norway is at the peak in terms of survival.’» Furthermore, we hear that we are now spending more money than ever, but any government can say, and any government will be able to say, because budgets are increasing year after year. This argument does not take into account the challenges cancer patients face every day. The fact that other countries have a long waiting period for their cancer patients does not justify a long waiting period in Norway. That we spend more money than ever doesn't legitimize that we don't spend enough. It is alarming when the Council of State states that a statutory right does not automatically increase the capacity of the treatment provision. Either the Council of State considers that a statutory right would in any case not be followed up by the Ministry in terms of increased capacity in the offer, or the Council of State considers that it is not possible to increase the capacity of the treatment offer, either because there is insufficient need for it or because there is insufficient resources to increase the capacity of the offer. I'm going to think the last thing is the case -- just that you might think about economics. Then I'll quote the Cancer Association, which at the hearing said the following, just about resources: ‘The Force Association sees that the introduction of such a legal right can easily lead to increased costs and re-priorities in favour of cancer patients. Given that cancer patients are in any case entitled to treatment, we believe that this does not result in correctness. If a patient starts treatment after 20 days or 2 months, the costs of treatment should be the same. On the contrary, government savings can be achieved by faster treatment by treating cancer at an earlier stage.’ During this period, a number of opposition proposals have been put forward which could help to improve precisely the organisation and increase the capacity, competence, efficiency and security of treatment. In addition, the 2012 budget proposed, from all opposition parties, to strengthen both patient treatment and investment in new medical devices. All the proposals have been voted down by the government parties. One of the most important things we can do as politicians is to provide predictability, safety and security to patients and relatives who every day know the uncertainty of their own or their immediate prospects. Even as many debates as we have had on cancer in this Chamber in recent years, I cannot remember that there are any proposals – yes, perhaps one – that the government parties have not voted down. I think that's a little bit gross.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2277	This is a debate in which we have heard many of the arguments before. But I just want to comment on one thing, namely this that both the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party took up, that we had announced a guarantee. Those who at least knew what it was about were actually right, because the leader of the Right sent out the same day a press release in which she spoke about the goals of the government. She was disappointed that the government had such low ambitions, but she talked about the goals, so she had at least understood what we were doing, namely, to make demands on the hospitals. Therefore, it is wrong that we have not done anything. The most important thing we can do is to create good treatment processes and predictability, and then we know that it's not that one model suits everyone when it comes to cancer. This requires individual, medical evaluation. The survival rate of cancer is probably the main goal of success in cancer treatment. A few years ago, we were in good shape. Now we're in the top level internationally. So we can't talk away from that. Although the survival rate is high, I also share the proposalers' goal of reducing the time taken from suspicion of cancer to treatment. It is not only because faster treatment produces better results in some cancers, but also because the time to treatment starts can cause added anxiety and anxiety. Nearly 30,000 people are affected by cancer every year. These shall be ensured through effective investigation and treatment. We need to consider carefully the most effective means of achieving better health care for cancer patients at all times. Legal rights are important but can never replace the medical work that needs to be done. I am pleased that the Patient Rights Act adopted by the Stortinget gives cancer patients many rights, including: the right to necessary health care within an individually fixed period, the right to assessment, the right to review, the right to free hospital choice, the right to individual level and the right to treatment abroad under given conditions. These are rights that are also granted to relevant patients with diagnostics other than cancer. I point out that the Medical Association states that special treatment guarantees for patient groups are, in principle, problematic and not sufficient to increase the capacity and quality of the offer. We are in a time period of major population changes, new treatments and new technologies that give us major challenges, but also opportunities for more effective treatment. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure both that health and care services receive the necessary growth and that the funds are distributed fairly. We need to combine increased financial frameworks and clear governance requirements with cooperation with the professional communities and patient organisations on good patient outcomes and the division of tasks between all parts of healthcare. I believe that it is not the juice that will provide shorter waiting time for cancer patients and increased survival. On the other hand, we must dry up to set ambitious targets for better cancer treatment. In the mission document of the regional health companies, I have therefore set a target of 80 pst. cancer patients shall be treated within 20 working days of receipt of the referral. The target is 80 pst. - Not 100. The reason is that for some cancer patients it is right to spend more than 20 working days investigating and clarifying what is the right treatment. Different hospitals will also take different time to reach the goal, and we know that it is more demanding for some patient groups. However, I am pleased to hear that the Cancer Association believes that there has been a lot of positive progress in the period after the target was set, with increased attention being paid to cancer treatment and the prioritisation of cancer in the mission documents. Hospitals need to identify bottlenecks and organise the supply differently. We measure the hospitals on this, and the results are published regularly, so that we can follow up the results. In 2011, we measured how fast the treatment started for breast cancer, colon cancer, and lung cancer. The figures show considerable differences between hospitals, but some hospitals manage to provide patients with rapid treatment. This year, I want to expand the measurements. Hospitals relate to a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework. They must organise themselves wisely and use resources as far as possible to provide all patients with good treatment. Professional requirements, guidelines and organisation shall contribute to the best possible results. I want to develop this work further, in close cooperation with the professional environments and patient organisations. There is no legal regulation that can replace systematic efforts to improve cancer treatment. Norwegian cancer doctors deliver world-class results, and we need to support them so that they can get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2304	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2307	We have now understood that legal rights to the patient are not what gives the desired effect, says the Council of State. To get better treatment, what is needed is better prioritisation, more resources and more skills. We know that at the same time as the government says it, some of the queues are increasing. We've discussed breast reconstruction earlier today – some are waiting for ten years – prostate cancer. We see that the number of health insurances is increasing, more people are drawing it, more people are buying themselves out of line. So on the one hand, more private services are buying and the queues are getting longer, on the other hand, the answer is better priority and better resource use. How satisfied is the Council of State with its priority when she sees the queues increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2312	I really want to use the opportunity to refer to the representative Toppe's posts when it was this very thing about buying out of line and what was really a warning from a cancer doctor in connection with the discussion about prostate cancer patients leaving the country. Then I shouldn't say that everyone gets that treatment in time that they should have. We've seen examples of it being too bad. We need to correct the areas where there are obvious errors and deficiencies, that is what is important, and the important thing for cancer patients is predictability, that is, they have good treatment processes. So that's why we have these goals that the hospitals have to deal with and organize according to, and that also shows that it gives good results, that we measure and that we publish the measurement results on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2317	Both the Council of State and several government parties have referred from the letter of the Council of State, namely: ‘Legal rights do not increase patient treatment capacity. Competence and capacity in cancer treatment are not altered by law, but by organisation, prioritisation and resource supply.» This is probably as much a heart attack as it is a question, because I showed in my post a number of proposals, including concrete ones, that the opposition parties have promoted in this room that are just going on both organization, priority and resources. Why in the world are all the proposals we come up with, including those that, according to the Council of State itself, can solve a lot of the problems, every single time downcast, just because they come from the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2327	I just have to say with all due respect that in some areas we disagree, and in some areas we have already started work. For example: the previous proposal for a representative that we discussed, on quality and patient safety, can be taken from all the proposals that we are already making as measures. Then it kind of becomes a little special if we're going to stand in the Storting and adopt it because it comes from the opposition. Then it is not the case that all proposals are bad proposals. But the important thing is that cancer patients have many rights today, and they should, because it is a serious disease. Some cancer patients must also be treated as immediate help and cannot wait for the 20 days. The doctors then have to give an individual assessment. The most worrying thing is that sometimes it goes too long from a doctor to the referral to the hospital, so there are many areas where we have to work better. But legal rights themselves do not want to be better at it – that's what the organisation will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2332	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2348	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2357	The introduction of a police record for employees in VTA companies, which includes cases in which persons are accused, who have taken the order or have been convicted of sexual crimes, is the matter we are dealing with here. I'm glad the government has filed the case. I am pleased that a step further is being taken in this matter in view of the problem that has been highlighted so thoroughly in the media in the past. But what I should have liked was that you'd gone a step further. For what the government proposes, police record is not like a regulation of the law, but as a regulation. I record that the government consultation note assessed, as I perceive it at least, whether it should also be introduced as a legal provision and a change in labour market law. I am glad that the newspaper for some time back had a great focus on this issue. I think the focus that was in the open room has driven the matter forward, made us deal with it here today, and that we get changes. Because it is far from satisfactory that those with developmental disabilities should feel afraid of being attacked at their own workplace. I am far from proud that this has also happened in my own municipality, which was also mentioned in the series of articles in Dagbladet. The Progress Party believes that it is important that we go one step further, and would like to have this legally, i.e. have been called for police clearance into the law. We would like to, and also suggest, extend the provision to those already employed in VTA companies today. Then I'm not talking about action workers, I'm talking about permanent employees. It was also something that was discussed in the government consultation note, and I must say that I am disappointed that it has not been said that this provision will also apply to those who are employed in VTA companies today. The reason why the Progress Party wants to do so is simply that there is no guarantee that there are still employees in these companies. I think it's a shame to use it as an argument that you can't implement it, that it's too bureaucratic and too resource-intensive to figure it out – at least the concept that I'm registering is used in the open debate in the media. Furthermore, the Progress Party sees clear challenges in good good good repute control for people living outside the EEA territory. That is why we also want to introduce – and propose – a five-year requirement for living. However, we recognise that such legislation also needs to be applied flexibly, because there are countries outside the EEA area from which satisfactory certificates of good practice can be easily obtained. In those cases where you have satisfactory background certificates, I think you should have a reasonable interpretation of the law and a practice that says that you can go away from a possible determination of living time. I note that the majority does not want to go in the direction the Progress Party wants. Finally, I would like to say that the most important thing to prevent abuse in VTA companies is good practice in the individual enterprise, a consciousness among the supervisors, so that one captures the signals given in the enterprises, good warning procedures up against the municipality, and not least a coherent, comprehensive strategy for how to meet the concerns messages, so that they are taken seriously and followed up in a good way. Finally, I would like to raise the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted in the vote, and I would also like to say from the Chair that we will subsidly support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2374	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2377	How we are to protect the most vulnerable of us from abuses and violations is an important political matter and a responsibility for all of us. Through progressively more transparency, our understanding of what abuse can mean for the individual human being has increased. With increased transparency, these difficult issues have also become part of the political dialogue. Only through shared responsibility, clear societal signals of where the frontier is going, good practices and attitudes at the workplace can we prevent. The use of a police record may prevent those convicted of various serious circumstances from regaining confidence in their workplaces that may provide room and occasion for further abuses or infringements. Neither can people who do not have a fundamental respect for human integrity work close to people who may need extra protection. Many of those involved in permanent work will need additional protection. The working party's large-scale group fully supports the setting that we are currently dealing with. At the same time, there must be scope on a general basis for problematising what a comprehensive use of police statements means to reintegrate people who have a past in the workplace. In recent years, police certification requirements have been adopted in several laws, including: the Children's Protection Act, the Foreign Affairs Act, the Children's Court Act, the Training Act, the University and Higher Education Act, the Health Personnel Act, the Social Services Act and the Criminal Code. This means many closed doors to work for people who want and need a new chance. Large parts of the public sector are thus closed to people with experience skills on many of the challenges set by the same agencies to solve or prevent. On a general basis, I believe that there is a need to address the potential negative consequences of this, and a review of the seriousness of criminal offences should be carried out so that they should be covered by a police record. The introduction of such a police record into the Labour Market Act for people working in a trust relationship with people participating in the VTA will be an important complement to the prevention of abuses and infringements. The Labour Party believes that there is reason to believe that, together with thorough internal control work on the part of the enterprises that are the organiser of the action, this could help to reduce both the registered infringement cases and the unannounced ones. Greater openness and room for talking about the difficult things that abuses and violations will be, are important for those who are exposed to it, dare to take it up. The Workers' Party believes that people with developmental disabilities are entitled to the same protection as minors. Providing more security to the most vulnerable of us is the main reason why the Labour Party supports the introduction of police certification in the labour market law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2392	Among those involved in actions in companies that offer permanent work, we find some of the weakest in our society. It's a weak group, but valuable, and they need our vigilance. No one has to be in doubt that the Right supports the introduction of police attestations for employees in companies offering VTA. Employees in such establishments will necessarily be in trust and responsibility for those with reduced development, such as: participate in actions in VTA establishments. Psychiatric retardants – who are the main groups – need legal protection in line with the protection such as: children have in the law. Just as you can't start working in a school or kindergarten without presenting a police record, you shouldn't be able to work with this group without doing the same thing. It's incredibly important that we get this legal home in place, and I want to praise the National Association of Labor Cooperations – ASVL – because they have been drivers in this matter. What the right has to do with postponing the government is that it has taken as long as it has to get this proposition to the Stortinget – although I know it also had to do with the processing of new police records. When reading the Nordic Research Report on the Working Environment and Legal Safety of Developmental Deprived Persons in Protected Enterprises, it is recalled how important it is to put such measures in place. It is frightening to read that several companies in this category have experienced cases dealing with violence and threats of violence — even sexual harassment and sexual assault. It is frightening, but not surprising, given the number of enterprises, employees and members of the measure concerned. The question is therefore whether such a long process was necessary – which started when the department ordered the report from Nordlandsforschung almost five years ago – before we now adopt a law on police certificates. The balance between the protection of weak groups on the one hand and the rehabilitating of those who have broken the laws of society, but who have served their punishment, will never be easy. Weak groups, such as those with mental retardation, need on the one hand the best protection society can give them. At the same time, it cannot be that those who have committed serious crime at an earlier time in life should never be able to become full-fledged citizens again. On these questions, there will never be any phased answer. But I believe the government here has found a reasonable balance between difficult reasons – those convicted of killing or sexual crimes, banned for life, those who have committed other crimes, banned for three years. At the same time, there are several other issues addressed in the proposition that also involve difficult balances, first of all the question of whether the requirement for a police attestation applies to all those currently employed in enterprises offering ASVL – not only those employed as of the date of entry into force of the law. For the Right, the rule of law that laws should not have retroactive effect has been decisive. At the same time, it is worth noting that the practical problems — given that around 13 000 people are currently employed in companies offering VTA — will be formidable. We have noticed that the department will investigate further the question of whether participants in VTA measures should also be required to present a police record. This is a difficult question, and the Right will therefore support the Ministry's proposal to investigate it in more detail. I assume that this is done as soon as it is practicable. Another important issue addressed here is the question of whether to require a residence requirement for persons from outside the EEA territory. Here, too, the ministry has asked for more time to investigate and coordinate with other agencies. The right also supports that proposal, but once again: it is conditional on this process not taking longer than is strictly necessary. There are many ways to measure how far society has come – to measure how civilised a society is. I think a society might have to be measured first and foremost by how well it protects those who cannot necessarily protect themselves. It's perhaps the most important measure of all, and on it we've come a little but important notice with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2424	This is a joyous day for very many people in our society – for those who are implicated in this or have been subjected to abuse, but not least for those who are concerned that abuse will not happen in our country, especially against the vulnerable people who need help from others. Adults and children with mental retardation are particularly vulnerable to violence and abuse, and they are often dependent on others, both in the workplace and in their private lives. It increases vulnerability even more. Both national and international research shows that abuses against adults with mental retardation occur three to four times more frequently than elsewhere in the population. Last year, the Children's House in Oslo had nine court hearings with adults with developmental disabilities, but there should have been many more. The numbers of darkness are great, and the matter should be very important for us as a society for reasons of conscience. This must lead to a particular increase in awareness of requirements for those who are required to work in professions where one is responsible for people with a developmental disability or others who are in a vulnerable position. One measure is to require a police record, so that offenders cannot get jobs in these professions, where they should be with vulnerable people. This has been introduced in many other areas of society. The police record is no guarantee that abuse can happen, but it is an important measure, which, together with a vigilante, will help us prevent abuse. The most important thing is to have good routines in everyday work, which reduces the risk and possibility of abuse. In April 2007, the Association – ASVL – which provides permanent work for the disabled, wrote a letter to the Ministry of Justice. In the letter they point out the need to be able to require police clearance for their own activities. The industry, which operates with permanent work, has been very concerned about this and has wanted to require such a certificate for several years. This is why it is so important that one in these companies is very aware of the risk of abuse – that one has good practice and that one can require police clearance. SV believed that this was an important measure, and took this up with the government. It's taken time to get it in place, but the most important thing is that it's in place. That's SV very happy. We look forward to the government coming back on other open questions – and having it implemented in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2437	In this proposition, the Government has presented proposals for amendments to the Labour Market Act requiring police clearance for employees in enterprises that offer the measure permanently organised work – VTA. VTA is a labour market measure in which development-impaired persons are included as a central target group. Developmentally disabled people are a vulnerable and vulnerable group and therefore need special protection. The requirement for a police attestation shall apply to ordinary staff. The requirement will include positions in which ordinary employees may, in the performance of their duties, enter into a trust or liability relationship in which abuse or adverse influence on persons with developmental disabilities may occur. The proposal implies that the employer has to assess the work area and the job portfolio for each job. Whether or not the action participants should also be subject to the requirement of a police attestation provides for a difficult balance between the need to protect some action participants and the need for the re-socialisation of other action participants. I would like to discuss this issue more closely in the context of the evaluation of the need for VTA action sites, which are now under way. The police record shall cover matters in which a person is intentional, accused, prosecuting or convicted of sexual crimes, intentional murder, serious crime of violence, and of criminal law and drug trafficking. The consequence of the observations made on the certificate shall initially be exclusion from work on the persons with developmental disabilities. The police record requirement shall not be retroactive, i.e. that the requirement will only apply to persons employed after the entry into force of the amendment. In this context, I refer you to the general reservation against giving legal provisions retroactive effect. I also refer to the fact that the employer, in the event of suspicion of criminal offences relating to an employee, has the opportunity to contact the police to obtain the necessary information. The obligation of professional secrecy of the police does not preclude the provision of information when necessary to prevent infringements or to prevent the conduct of activities in an irresponsible manner. Police attestations issued in some non-EEA countries could be of limited value. I therefore believe that there are good reasons for introducing minimum living requirements in Norway for workers outside the EEA area who are unable to provide a satisfactory police certificate. In my opinion, however, there is a clear advantage whether the requirement of living time is similar in all areas where there is a need for police certification. I therefore believe that this issue needs to be further assessed in cooperation with the other departments responsible for sectors facing similar challenges. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has recently launched such harmonisation work. I stress that a good internal control system in the VTA companies will be the most important measure to prevent abuses against the developing population, even after the imposition of a police record. The introduction of police certification requirements does not in itself guarantee that abuses cannot occur, but is one of several necessary and important measures to prevent abuses of persons with developmental disabilities at the workplace. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the proposal to introduce police certification requirements in VTA companies and thus contributes to increased job security for one of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2461	The Council of State was involved in its statement — and it is also quite clear in its position and in its proposal — that it would like to examine whether a police record should also apply to VTA participants. The Progress Party fully agrees that an investigation is needed here. It's a difficult question, it's a complicated question initially. I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is, when can the Storting expect to be presented with such an investigation? The second question I have to the Council of State is: we see major shortcomings in the warning procedures in the municipalities when such things happen in the workplace. Will the Council of State take an initiative to develop common alert procedures, so that we get good alert procedures when an infringement has occurred or when an infringement is suspected?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2470	On the first question, when to come back to this assessment, and whether to bring with the users of measures, we are very much in agreement that this is difficult. In fact, I believe that we have to go a long way in protecting those who work there, also against the other policy users, but that is a difficult balance. I now have to assess the whole question as to the need for VTA sites, and that's in the context I'm going to look at this. I don't want to party when I get back, but it shouldn't take very long. The second question, when it comes to... what was the second question again?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2480	There were common warning routines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2485	That's right. We agree that what is most important is that we have good systems for this. It is already the case today – it follows in a way from the legislation – that good warning systems should be provided. However, we have now decided that, in order to renew this agreement between Nav and VTA providers, we should enter into the agreement that we should have special procedures and warning rules for this. So it's going to happen successively when we renew the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2490	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2507	This is pretty short. There has been some disagreement in the Committee on the reality of the changes that led to this vote. There were changes in old age pension and disability pension. However, this case then deals with the necessary adjustments that result from previous decisions. This committee therefore delivers a unanimous opinion on the matter, and I am addressing the proposals that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2514	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2528	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2537	For the right, the starting point for all welfare policies is that you need activity, and usually activity from as early as possible. We'll also have a chance to discuss that later. This matter is more specific about the individual benefit. The opposition parties have agreed on a proposal to review the arrangements under social assistance, with a view to seeing whether they promote activity or whether they may have adverse effects. It is not difficult to imagine that the individual benefit can have adverse effects. For example, we know that the drop out numbers, even though they're going down a little bit, are high in high school. They are particularly concentrated in some professional studies, up to 30 pst in some counties. Many of these young people do not come back later into the educational cycle. Some of them do not find the way to work, but instead find their way to the Nav office. Then you can discuss what it says about a society when a 17-year-old boy or girl comes to the Nav office to get money for living. The starting point – at least on the Right – has been that children under the age of 18 are the responsibility of their parents. Another possible unfortunate effect of the individual benefit is, of course, this: you don't get money in your pocket to go to high school. You're getting a scholarship. You get the equipment you need. But that's not how you get any pay from society to go to high school. The individual benefit can then be thought to work for someone that, at the moment they drop out, they get an opportunity to get a social benefit that the equal peers don't get. It is a social benefit that is not very high initially, and parts of the maximum amount are linked to specific expenditures, for example. to travel back and forth. However, it is high compared to what you have as a high school student or what other peers may have that is in a study or school situation. The reason why the Right hasn't gone all the way into this round to say that we have to cut the individual benefit is that it's at the same time based on another principle that the Right is very concerned about, and that's that we're always going to have activity. Then there may also be an advantage that there is a reward associated with participating in activity. The right starting point is that you have to have an activity obligation for everyone who receives social assistance, and that you have to be much more diligent to take advantage of the possibility of sanctions you have to pay for social benefits if people don't show up. But then it's like that, as opposed to, for example, the individual benefit. common social assistance — if we can call it it — is specifically linked to participation in interventions. And that's an advantage. What's difficult in this case is that it has been impossible to find good evidence of whether the individual benefit works or not. The council says in its letter, and the majority parties, the red-green ones, say yes, they assume it works. It has not been possible to find any good evidence of that, other than this assumption. Nor is it possible to find any very good evidence that it has very harmful effects. That's why we think it's quite natural on the Right that, when you go through the whole social welfare system and look at all the support schemes, you also see very clearly and especially well at the individual benefit. Because in almost all Nav offices in Norway, the main concern they have is that there are more young people entering their doorstep. It is a concern that all parties in this Chamber should share. Then it's a big problem if we have schemes that in the short term make it seem more attractive not to go back to school or quit school. Otherwise, I will address the proposal on which the Right is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2554	The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2557	The proposal that we are going to deal with here today is about how we can make it possible for children and young people to get a good start on their adult life and on the best possible way of life while they are young. Completeing high school is absolutely central to achieving that, so that's an important question. What is the challenge is about the Progress Party, supported by the Right and Christian People's Party, has the right answer. I mean no. Firstly, there is a somewhat strange starting point or a premise of the wrong proposal. The proposal refers to the fact that young people who are fit for work should not be tempted to quit school in order to live as passive social welfare recipients. Is school leaving healthy and workable youth? No, no, no. But we know that if they leave school without being caught, they have a greater chance of living a whole life with a weak work relationship and with a greater risk of mental illness and drug abuse. We know that there are often very complex problems that cause school periods to be inappropriate for some students. Mainly, the problems are related to family relationships. Noise, low levels of parental work, mental problems that are not detected, or violence in close relationships are among these. It is estimated that approx. 10 pst. of young people with a background to parental drug problems, to take one example. The report "A life I didn't choose" from Agderforschung shows that getting outside the social community is about completely different things than being tempted by a little over two hundred kroner a day under perfectly clear conditions. The problems in the family move to school. Concentration and learning difficulties, bullying and subsequent degenerative behaviour and squabbling in primary schools were left in the stories, as reported in the report on young people. The report also refers to the findings of the 2009 Public Health Institute, which showed that very many young people with significant mental disorders are neither supported by teachers nor caught up in health services. Teachers reach too little young people with mental distress, and students with a high level of mental distress and a low sense of duty to schoolwork often do not receive support from teachers either. It is important that young people be closely followed up. It is important that efforts start early, and it is important that more instruments are available to choose from. It is also important that employees in the various services cooperate well with young people. Studies show that it is difficult to point out individual actions — as called for by the Right — that are active in themselves, but what we know is that the system of organisation and diversity of actions is important. The government’s commitment to children and young people is extensive, and much is good. New GIV, legislative provisions to assess the needs of children in health and social services laws, the establishment of the Children’s Best Network of Competences, which disseminates knowledge of methodology and best practices in health and care services, are examples of important measures that this government has taken. There is also work to establish so-called child contacts in prisons and in Nav, which will be a good thing for many children. So I'm satisfied with the framework tool that Storting has decided. When we also include the Interaction Reform and the Public Health Act, it provides a good framework for better care, past efforts and good follow-up of children and young people. Employees need to cooperate more, and also more systematically, on the individual student that the school is unable to hold. For the Workers' Party, it is important to take as a starting point that children and young people are different and have different problems. They therefore need to have access to tailor-made measures — as early as possible — and access to work and activity is the best prevention a society can provide. The working party will follow developments closely. We need to see if we are doing the right things, and we need to change the measures in line with the needs. It is therefore uplifting that in 2011 more young people completed school than in 2010. ==References== 800 more young people have gained a better starting point for their adult life by completing school. The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right-wing Savings Proposals do not improve for this group in the future and are the wrong answers to the most important challenge of society. The working party will have more tailor-made, more custom-made actions and closer follow-up by employees in the various services. Yes, we want more of what works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2585	Let me first say that I share the considerations of my colleague, grossing-up representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. It is also important for the Progress Party to have mechanisms that stimulate activity. I think it's absolutely fundamental for people who have ended up out of the ordinary course, that they have schemes that stimulate activity, that ensure that you can come back to work in a fast, efficient and good way. Then I have to say that I'm a little surprised when I hear the previous talk, because it's not like everyone who drops out of school is sick or suffering. What statistics, what study is it that shows that everyone who drops out of high school has a diagnosis, a disease or a disease? I don't think that exists. This proposal is about several things. Firstly, when the individual benefit came, it was a long time before the redundancy money – that idea around it was thought. Much has happened in welfare policy in the form of designing new solutions. Let's take an example: a student at a secondary school, who takes a vocational education, experiences systematic bullying and ends up at school because of this. At that time, it might have been natural for him to enter another school, and perhaps he would have been admitted to one of the vocational schools that many of our labour market companies have, in order to gain the skills to move on. But does it make sense for a student who goes from one school offer to another to have a special grant scheme, or a benefit scheme, when he does not have it in his ordinary school? I don't think that's right. With regard to those people who are older than high school and who have fallen out of work in various ways, who also enter the labour market enterprises and get a follow-up to move on: for these, I believe that this scheme is out of date in many ways, because we have redundancy payments. I think it's important in our welfare system that we clean up some of the concepts, that we coordinate some of the schemes and benefits. This will make the apparatus more effective, make it easier to deal with, and facilitate user assistance – precisely to lead them back to activity as quickly as possible, and to proper activity, so that they can get a step further. Then I have to say that I think it is a little strange that the representative of the Workers' Party spends so much time arguing against our proposal, especially given that the Council of State itself has said that she will start to review social security schemes and the level of benefits in connection with participation in measures. That's exactly what this proposal is about, but we're saying that we want this to happen in the current year. We believe it is important that we have proper progress on this matter, and that we have a guarantee that the Stortinget will be presented with such a review during 2012. I record that the majority and the majority parties, the government parties, say it is not so important when that matter comes, only it comes once in the future – it doesn't matter whether it will be in 2013, 2014 or 2025. I think it's important that we have a conscious drive in these matters, and I think that a co-ordinated growth could actually have supported such a proposal. Then we had cleaned up some of the terms here, cleaned up some of the arrangements – with which the Council of State is running – and we had to have delivered this in the course of the year. The government may do it anyway, but it would have been okay if the Storting could give such a clear signal when we want that review to be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2600	The question of youth leave and high school leave is important for the Central Party. Getting more people to complete higher education will bring great benefits to society and improve the ability of young people to master their own lives. The centre party believes that we should use a wide range of instruments to increase the level of implementation in high school. With regard to the proposal we are examining, I believe that the starting point for the proposal is rather thinly justified. There is a deficiency in the claim made, and this is due to its effect, and the opposition's solution also bears the mark of getting out a little crooked. It is important to be clear that the individual benefit goes exclusively to those participating in labour-oriented measures. So it's not like leaving high school alone triggers the right to benefit. Nor has there been any evidence of a clear link between high school dropouts and the individual benefit. Unfortunately, for many young people, there is never a question of education or not, but of finding an alternative to complete passivity. If the individual benefit can give incentives to participate in an action, this is positive for the situation of these young people. Nor are we able to remove a scheme because it is being abused. Then I don't think we had many social security schemes left here in the country. We have to work for and assume that the benefit is used after the purpose. Nor is it the case that personal assistance excludes — or vice versa — secondary education. Participation and participation in secondary education may be combined. That the individual benefit, for example, may encourage young people who have already dropped out of high school to complete training in combination with work-oriented measures, it is necessary to argue that the benefit has the right to life. Then the case rapporteur was concerned that the youth was entering the doors of Nav. I don't share that concern. I'm in many ways more concerned with what these young people are going to at the local Nav office. If it is to fix practical things related to the cash support or find a job vacancy, I think this is good. Nor should we stigmatise people who need the well-being offered. I'm actually reacting a little to the vocabulary of the original proposal, talking about healthy, workable young people who aren't supposed to be tempted to quit school in order to live as passive social welfare recipients. I believe that this is a classic example of how the Progress Party underestimates Norwegian youth. It's actually not that Norwegian youth sees it as living as a passive social welfare recipient as something very positive and good, which they jump on at the first opportunity. I think that is a reality that the Progress Party should also take on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2619	I have to say that I – like others – wonder about the self-security of the Workers' Party in this matter, because this is a matter that I think is quite complicated. I think we really should agree that there are both advantages and disadvantages to the individual benefit as it is designed today. The representative Henriksen is quite right that there are a lot of reasons for dropping out, and there are a lot of underlying factors that make you choose to quit school instead of completing. For those who go all the way out — perhaps all their lives — there are often completely different reasons than an individual benefit that is the reason. But I think it's strange that you don't see that it's a point that for those who stand on their feet and labor at school, who strictly judge whether they're able to finish, and who hear that comrades get a few thousand copies, actually the individual benefit can be what makes them quit school and rather go over to social welfare. I think it's definitely a simplified conclusion to say that the individual benefit is the reason for the drop-out. It's a simplified conclusion, but I'm going to say that it's very likely that in some cases the individual benefit can turn out unlucky. For the Christian People's Party this matter changed its character when the committee proceedings were in progress and we received the reply from the Council of State. I agree with the criticism from the previous speaker of the proposal for full removal and the wording contained in the proposal, but when it comes to a review and getting a case of its own, I think it puts the matter in a completely different light. That is why I am pleased with the signals that have come from the Council of State in this matter. The main point must be that we are able to ensure that young people are included in working life, because passiveness is the challenge — and especially passiveness at this age can destroy education, not get into work and become passive social welfare recipients for the rest of their lives. Then the personal assistance, which I was in for, can lure, but it can also save – and there the Center Party follows the Workers' Party very far on the way. In fact, the individual benefit can cause those who are falling outside to see a carrot that makes them choose to move on to the course. I would like to stress that education is important – being able to obtain a certificate of competence either through a course or being able to complete education is a key in itself. It's often a prerequisite for success. The general work done to ensure that more people get through high school is a major element, but also the sector for which we are responsible in the Committee needs to be adapted to ensure that as many as possible choose to complete education so that work can be facilitated in the future. Then we need good documentation, so we know that the benefits actually contribute to what we want, that is, that more people come into activity and realize themselves. But I'm not convinced – as I hear the Workers' Party. That's why I think it's important that when the Council of State comes up with the result of that review, as she has notified in the letter, you go into it thoroughly and not just jump over that it can actually be a challenge. The Christian People's Party believes it's important to combine support that can stimulate to get back to work, with realism, because unfortunately you know that someone chooses to drop out because of these kinds of social benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2632	This issue is about removing the individual benefit, which proposers consider to be an incentive to leave secondary education in favour of participation in labour-oriented measures. Proposalers point out that the number of people leaving school has increased. It is common to define the rate of drop-out from three years of secondary education as not completing within five years. From this point of view, we see that the non-response has remained relatively stable on about 30 pst. in Norway since the mid-1990s. However, the level of non-response is too high and the government has therefore launched the New GIV initiative to increase implementation in higher education. The new GIV contains several projects, including the follow-up project, where I work closely with the Minister of Knowledge. Cooperation between the follow-up service and Nav should be strengthened to improve the follow-up of young people who have fallen away or are at risk of falling from secondary education. The goal achievement of the New GIV is closely followed. Recent figures also show positive developments in some areas. The proportion of students moving from Vg1 has increased by one percentage point from 2010 to 2011, corresponding to between 700 and 800 students. The individual benefit consists of basic benefits and any additional benefits to cover actual expenditure. Participants between the ages of 16 and 19 receive basic benefits at a low rate, NOK 227 per day, and participants over the age of 19 receive a high rate, NOK 313 per day. In addition, children’s allowances, child care allowances and out-of-home allowances are provided for those who have to live away from home. The basic performance shall ensure the benefit of life support to the action participants. Many of the youngest beneficiaries live at home, for which the benefit is more marked by an incentive to participate in measures. The proposalers focus on young people they believe are stimulated to quit school because of the individual benefit. However, leaving high school does not in itself give rise to individual benefits. The individual benefit is provided only in the course of participation in employment-oriented measures. The young person must first sign up to a Nav office and be registered as a jobseeker. Thereafter, the need for follow-up is assessed. One possible outcome is that a labour-oriented measure, including the right to individual benefits, is the correct follow-up. For young people who are far from work and education, the individual benefit may provide incentives to participate in interventions. We agree that continuing unemployment and passivity are not a good situation for young people. The individual benefit can prevent too many people from doing so. Participation and participation in secondary education need not be contradictory. An important element of the follow-up project in the New GIV is that the Nav and County Municipality, in cooperation, offer young people adapted combinations of labour-oriented actions and training. In this respect, the individual benefit may give young people who have fallen out of high school incentives to participate in a programme that can help them to complete their training. Proposalers are calling for an approved national target for professional subjects at a level of professional qualification. Today, we have this in that it is possible to take so-called basic competence through the apprenticeship system. Of course, if during or after the course of training the student wants to achieve full professional competence, it is open to it. Another way to achieve professional competence under the level of professional letters is the letter of practice, which is a pilot scheme that can be used by all states. We must always be open to assess whether existing schemes are working properly. However, I believe that the best way to combat high school drop-outs is through other measures such as those mentioned, and not by removing the individual benefit. As mentioned here by other speakers, there is no evidence of any direct causal relationship whatsoever between these two factors. Then I fully agree with the representatives who have said that we must constantly look at whether our arrangements function as good incentives for activity. That is why I have also stated that I am now going through the arrangements for young people to look at how they work, and I am going to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with the result of that review.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2658	I record that the Council of State defends the need for personal assistance, but I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit. We have now received the youth qualification programme that has dropped out of school, and a qualification grant for those who are most remote from work – a benefit far higher than the individual benefit. Given that we have introduced redundancy payments, which are also much more focused on follow-up, and a completely different benefit for those who want to get back to work, does the Council not see the same thing as the Progress Party, that the individual benefit has played its part in many ways – that it is not the same need for the individual benefit, but that we have other types of social welfare schemes that replace the individual benefit? And doesn't the Council of State think it makes sense to clean up the various social benefits in order to get a more coherent relationship in them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2666	As I said, we're going to go through how the individual benefit is today targeted for young people, to look at how it works. As far as these other arrangements are concerned, I actually believe that there is a basis for saying that they have other purposes. The qualification programme is aimed at people who are long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, who are very far from working life. Hopefully, some of the young people we take out, who are about to drop out and get problems, which we get on measures, and who get an individual benefit -- the most important thing is that they come up with an action -- people who don't get in where the qualification programme is the right answer. In the case of AAP, there's a requirement that you have to have at least 50 pst. reduced working capacity. It will also not necessarily include this group. This is a way to take people early, get them into activity and make them not get where the AAP or qualification program necessarily is the tool. So, of course, there might be overlaps, but basically this isn't necessarily the same group, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2675	Does the Council of State see any disadvantages at the personal assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2680	It was a very concise and short question. I appreciate it. As we have said, we need to see if there are any incentives in the schemes that go in the wrong direction. Basically, completing high school is so crucial to how your life is going to be, that I think there are a few people who relate to an individual social welfare that draws towards not completing. I think the individual benefit can be stimulating to someone, so that they participate in an action. Whether there is a balance where there can be some people who initially have so few opportunities to succeed in high school and society otherwise they can think: I don't want to try, now I'm taking the individual benefit – that there may be some like that – it may be, but we can't discuss politics at that level. We need to discuss structural policy, and by structurally speaking, I believe that the individual benefit seems to be a good incentive. But I've also said that I'm going to go through it, and I wouldn't have said that if I hadn't seen that there's a need to see the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2689	Structural level is interesting – and the word 'incentive', which is a key here. Now it is the way the government and the Council of State assume that it is a good incentive to get some money to participate in an action site, and I can agree on that in itself – it also tends to be right to assume often. You can't document it in any way, but okay enough, you can assume that that's a good point. But it's very strange that there can't be any way that it can be a bad incentive – opposite way. Of course, it is not like -- the Council of State knows -- that no one sits and decides that they should be disabled at the age of 17 years, but the level of disability and our public benefits also affect how many end up on them. It is well documented and well empirically coated. It's the corresponding mechanism that possibly enters here at the individual benefit. What I think is striking, is that the council points at the incentive one way, but is unable to see the incentive that can go the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2696	I've just given illustrations on incentives that can go the other way. I just said that you can't rule out that there are individuals who can think like that. No one chooses this, but I think that if you're so far away from work and an ordinary life course, you might think: I can get some money there. As the representative Pollestad said, you'll always be able to have some individual cases where it works that way. I don't think that's very interesting. What's interesting is if you think this structurally works the positive way. And then you have to keep trying to minimize as much as possible the negative incentives. That's why we're going to go through it and see if there are any such elements. I really think this is a bit of a debate for the sake of the debate, because I think we quite agree that an incentive is good, and that we have to try to prevent the possible negative effects. We agree that there may be some negative effects, but basically, I think this is a positive incentive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2701	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2706	I would just like to comment a little bit on the Appreciation of the Advance Party over the Workers' Party's membership of individual support. If Robert Eriksson heard my post, he heard that what's important is finding action that works, and that it's important to have a variety of measures. That's just what I felt that the council argued very well for, both in the line change and in the post. What I experience is the reality of the debate based on the rhetoric that is being used, is that the Right Party, on the one hand, and the Advance Party, on the other, are making it clear that they want to remove the individual support – that is what they say in the text, and that is what they perceive here from the pulpit – but at the same time they say they want to look at it, because that is what is in the proposal. Then I feel that there will be very little credibility associated with what they really want. Will they remove the individual support, as they say in the text, and as they have said repeatedly here from the pulpit? Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said, "Is it right that some sheep and others don't?" If it is covered by other arrangements, the Progress Party was inside. It was quite clear as I experienced it from the listener's position, that this is a support that the Right Party and the Advance Party at least don't want to have. That I'm amazed, I can sign on with the opposite sign. I also think it is a point that both the Right Party and the Advance Party use this opportunity to show their true face by attacking more social security schemes. It seems to me that they're very concerned about the economics of these, and not so much about the people who can actually get the help of the incentives that lie there. But then we also agree that the most important thing is to get young people to complete high school. We know that if they don't complete high school, there's a much higher risk for them in a lot of areas of life than for those who complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2719	The right allows itself to ask questions about whether our arrangements work well enough to get the activity up. Yeah, that's our true face. The eye-catching is if this is not the true face of the Workers' Party. For many years, the Right Party and the Labour Party have co-existed on what is called the working line in Norwegian policy. The central condition of the work line is the old slogan of the work movement: Do your duty, demand your right – it is activity, and that is to contribute. That's what was behind, for example. when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen launched the qualification program. When Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said that social clients “must get up in the morning”, the work line was behind them. Then the idea was that you should have activity, that it would also pay to work, which at least the Right has talked about a long time, and that you should also contribute when you came to Nav to get money for living. If that's how the Workers' Party has gone away from the line of work, there's something Right has suspected for a long time, but it's okay to get it confirmed black on white from the pulpit in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2731	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2734	I just think it's interesting to see the commitment that Torbjørn Røe Isaken shows, so I think we've met a sore toe. If Torbjørn Røe Isaacen can tell me what I have said in my post saying that the Workers' Party does not support the line of work, I am very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2740	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox The size has now come to issue no. 13th@item: inlistbox The matter under consideration here has not been dealt with in the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal and is therefore deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2758	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2767	The present representative proposal contains three concrete proposals related to economic welfare or social assistance. Let me first highlight two important aspects of social assistance. Firstly, social assistance is meant to be the last safety net of society, and secondly, social assistance is intended to be temporary. The aim is to have the greatest possible financial autonomy. Then it is important that social assistance is followed up with activity and good advice. It is also important to have flexibility in instruments and closeness to users. That's why social assistance is a municipal rather than a state responsibility. The first proposal in this case is that municipalities should not be allowed to shorten the social assistance of their parents on the basis of income below the tax-free income limit of children under 18 years of age. The Committee is clear that children are not responsible for caring for their parents. The Committee is also concerned that children of social welfare beneficiaries, like other children, should enjoy their own income. When the majority chooses not to join in the proposal to introduce such a ban, it is in the light that we do not see any need for such a ban. We are aware that a new circular on the matter is being worked on, and we support the signals given by the Council of State in its reply letter to the Committee. It is also underlined in the majority's comments. The next proposal is to introduce a legal requirement for the obligation of activity for the individual social welfare beneficiary. It is a majority of the Committee which considers that a statutory obligation of activity, in the manner in which the proposal is addressed, is not appropriate. That is why one goes against the proposal. It's allowed to impose activity in today's law. This is used in varying degrees. The provisions of the law require municipalities to administer the law in order to prevent and combat poverty, and in very many cases it would be appropriate to combine this with activity. The Committee assumes that the local authorities follow this up, as required by law. When the municipalities in each case consider making demands for activity and provide a good social follow-up, it will help more people become economically self-employed. There are no good figures on the extent to which municipalities use this right to impose conditions on the payment of economic social assistance. There is a need for more knowledge of the use of activity. There is also a need for a more detailed assessment of the current social assistance framework. For this reason, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the government parties and the Christian People's Party, has chosen to ask the government to come back with an assessment of the extent to which social assistance can and should be combined with activity requirements and with proposals for how this can be done. The third point of the proposed document 8 is to make municipal social assistance state-owned and to introduce norms at almost the same level across the country. It is gratifying that it is only the Progress Party that supports such state-making of social assistance. Such an approach would weaken the ability of municipalities to carry out an overall effort to make citizens economically self-reliant. I believe that the proposal must be seen in the context of the traditional zeal of the Progress Party to state and red tape arrangements within the welfare state, including in other areas. To me, it is somewhat unclear what is contained in the concept of ‘standardised rates almost equally throughout the country’. It is that the proposal provides for geographical differentiation, and this is something new. No other benefits we have within our welfare state are geographically differentiated. I imagine a pretty big bureaucracy when someone replaces the local know-how and the local taste with a state welfare directorate. If you want to have your own directorate to assess these rates and the different cost-of-life conditions in the different municipalities – that is to speculate – it becomes a bureaucratic and poor system, which undermines what is the very foundation of social assistance, namely individual adaptation and follow-up. That is why one does not want to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2788	Social medicine, Steinar Westin, points out that the law on public health and the welfare systems that preceded it may have had a greater impact on public health than medical innovations by providing people with access to health services, good working conditions and improved hygiene and nutrition. The development of social arrangements that ensure a decent life for people has a long history in Norway. The Factory Supervision Act came in 1892, and it meant better working conditions for employees. The poverty code came in 1900. The sign correctly between worthy and unworthy needing. The unworthy, the proselytes, fantasies, beggars and people who had fallen into drunkenness were given their rights under the law of proselytism, not under the law of the poor. Fortunately, this is not the case today. Today's arrangements apply to all, and rights and obligations are largely predictable and well-practiced by the administration. Nevertheless, it is good for proposals to be made and for our welfare systems to be debated. We have to constantly consider whether we're on the right track, and whether we're doing the right things. The proposals in this case and in the case of individual support, from the Advancement Party, the Right and Part Christian People's Party, have a little different device, but it may indicate that the direction for them is that they are more or less cosmetic in their team. I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Christian People's Party has given its support to several of these proposals, as they show in sum a direction of social policy that is closer to the Progress Party than the Centre, as I see it. For the purpose of shortening parental social assistance, it shall be measured according to the specific needs of the individual. It is an important principle, and administration must ensure that this is followed up. Children have no obligation to care for their parents, nor should they have children of social welfare recipients. In the Law on Social Services in the Labour and Welfare Act, the government’s health authorities decided to have overall responsibility for the supervision of municipal activities in Nav. The Workers' Party believes that it is important to put this supervisory system in place. Oversight revealed several offences and poor governance in the treatment of social economic assistance by nationwide supervision in 2010. Nav has to use these reports to improve, so that practices are consistent with the intentions of laws and regulations. No matter how we establish the law with regard to rights and obligations, there will always be room for discretion and interpretation. That's good. The ideal thing is that practices provide trust and credibility, that users have confidence that employees will do well to them. Nor are the proposals on compulsory activity for all and government management of social assistance of such a nature that they are unrestricted. Throughout history, we have seen that responsibility for health, work and social services measures is shifted between health and social services and between countries and municipalities. No form of organisation or content is final, nor should it be. We need to organise services so that they can solve what is the intention of laws and regulations at all times. Today's proposals are not of such a nature that structural changes are needed to improve services, in my view. But it's interesting to see that the bourgeois parties once again agree on measures that limit the possibilities for people. Young people who quit school and those who receive social assistance will face more stringent demands for public assistance. The proposals also involve a trend we often see from the Progress Party that rules are to be applied to entire groups and less emphasis is placed on individual assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2807	This proposal for a representative contains three important proposals which could contribute to the activation of social assistance beneficiaries in a much better way than today. There are many young people living in families who have economic social benefits as income, you might say. These kids often have a worse economy than their friends, and on the same level as regular ones, they may have a desire and need to work and earn a few dollars themselves. Today, the local authorities are very different, and very many young people are not given the opportunity to have income below the tax-free limit. They miss the opportunity to gain valuable experience in working life. The opportunities these young people have today to improve their economy are to take on black work. There are many of them who do it so that it won't be registered, or they're recruited into the ranks of criminals. It's not desirable. Unfortunately, only the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have joined in the proposal to give young people living in families with social welfare income the same opportunity as other young people to try their way into work and improve their economy. In proposal No 2 promotes the Progress Party and Right-wing proposals for legislative changes in order to introduce a legal requirement for an activity obligation. Activity and work are not punishment. It is quite natural to make an effort to get money, and those who do not have the opportunity to get a job in the ordinary working life have not been hurt by contributing to the labour force in the municipality. I will take an example from the municipality of Åmli. There's a lot of unsatisfied people there, but there's also a lot of social welfare recipients. They were able to reduce social assistance payments by 90 pst. in the case of the introduction of a job obligation. It was an assessment from day one. They have work measures such as: to work with, snow clearing, maintenance and some work for older people. It makes them come up in the morning. They come out, and they get work training. I have to say that I am getting a little tired of hearing about all those who stand so far away from work. Maybe we'll stop talking about all the people who stand so far away from work, and rather start seeing opportunities and giving everyone an opportunity to make an effort. We need all people. We've messed up a lot in our municipalities and in our society. Social assistance recipients are people with unused resources and there are jobs for them. In some cases, it's the trustees who stop it. They do not want ordinary tasks to be delegated to others. But it's so important that those who receive passive social benefits get work training. Everyone can be here, if they're not sick, and then they shouldn't be social welfare recipients over time. The local economy shall not be critical of what social welfare beneficiaries will have to live on. Nor shall it be essential for them to have a follow-up or to have action. We believe that all municipalities should be obliged to have work measures, so that everyone has an opportunity to contribute. It also makes them strengthen their self-confidence and look at themselves in a different way. They're also viewed in a different way by others. It's stigmatizing, and it's a bad feeling to go and be a social welfare recipient over time. That feeling we want to take away from those who are exposed to it. We also want to make social assistance a state responsibility under Nav and introduce norms that are nearly the same across the country. There is no hokuspocus, and there is less bureaucracy than today. Most people today earn the same thing, whether they work in one or the other municipality in the country. In most public positions, it is not that if you have high costs, you can go to your employer and ask for more money. We have a certain sum to deal with, which we're going to be able to live with. It should also be possible for social assistance recipients to have it. It's less bureaucracy, and you could use a lot more effort to help the individual with other social problems, possibly getting into work. That's where the resources have to be used, not to sit and figure out what they're entitled to, and what they're not entitled to. We think the second part of the majority decision, from the Christian People's Party and the government parties, is toothless. As we see it, there is little willingness to address a growing problem and lack of action from the Christian People's Party and government parties. That is why the Progress Party is not going to support the proposal, because we believe it contains nothing. I take up the proposals of the Progress Party, the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right and the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2828	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2831	I can start by saying that the Right Subsidiary will vote for the II of the Decision, from the Christian People's Party and the Government Parties. We may also think it's a little toothless, but it's also harmless; at least it can't do any harm. I expect that it will be noted, so that all our representatives vote correctly. It's true that once again, not the bourgeois parties, but the centre-right, which is the preferred way to characterize it, have come together. That's very good. I think that the representative Henriksen and others are just going to get used to, so you don't get shocked at it every time. Then it becomes more comfortable to sit in this room. Right is a party for local self-government. We're going to continue to be -- completely consistent, even when it comes to social assistance. So we say in line with the Right Tradition no to state social assistance. There are many of the arguments the Centre Party has for it. With regard to children and social assistance, it is not difficult to understand that there may be quite extreme cases. When the 16-year-old has earned 800,000 kroner on apps, and the parents come and ask for social assistance, it is of course possible to school that the 16-year-old has 800,000 kroner in annual income. But that is not what we are proposing. The proposal is very simple: if a child has an income below the income limit, it should be so simple that it will be allowed to have that income. The reason why this has become a problem is that not all municipalities have similar practices here. This applies to municipalities where there are different parties that govern. I think it must be very easy to say that children should be allowed to earn their own money and be sure they don't get to hear that because you had summer work or part-time work and earned a little bit, your parents get lower social assistance payments. I can't imagine a more hearty policy than that. But I hope that the ministry, even though the government parties vote against this proposal, will tighten this up and be clear on how this is to be done. So that's the last point, which is about duty of activity. There was a little talk in the previous article about "our true faces", and if you could show some examples of this with the line of work and so on. I'm not going to complain in this post – I did in the previous one – but it's striking that when the representative Pollestad says that the obligation of activity is being practised to varying degrees, it's obviously a situation with which the red-green parties are satisfied. And we know that's true. In many municipalities, the activity obligation is not used at all. Some municipalities have – Åmli was mentioned – used it with great luck. It's precisely because in the case of young people, you could say that making demands is showing that you don't give up. To make demands is to care. For adults it's not bad to demand activity; it's effective, it's economical, and it's good for society. We know that in a lot of municipalities there is no requirement for activity, and we know that even more Nav offices do not use the sanction options you have. There have been numerous examples of having courses and activities in which participants who do not attend but who in a simple way ensure that they are paid out anyway as participants in the course. The disengagement from meeting up and joining in to get money is not known to many people in Norway. For people, it's like getting to work, and when you have a job, you get paid. I also think you should have that connection for people who come to receive social assistance. At first, I believe it is quite reasonable to also require that you participate in low-threshold offers, but that it is quite good to say that you come as a 19-year-old, as a 20-year-old, or as a 25-year-old for that matter, you can go with and milk snow, pick up garbage and clean up gardens, etc., but you can't go like this for three years. Everyone understands that. The goal is to get people out of social assistance and over to education or work. The score is: activity from day one. When the Workers' Party does not just say no to an activity obligation – one may have its reasons for doing so – but has not even been interested in asking why municipalities are not using the ability to impose the activity that you have today, it may be an example that the Workers' Party – slowly but surely – is moving away from the line of work they have had for so many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2846	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee and, in particular, the rapporteur for a good cooperation and for a good job in this matter. As a result, not only do we feel as usual that a representative proposal is being voted down, but we actually get a real review of how social assistance works today, which I think will help more people get back to work or into new activity. Combating poverty is a struggle for human dignity, and succeeding in getting more people into work and activity is a key to succeeding in just that work. Work creates good networks, one can realize itself, and one gets his own income. When one falls out of work and outside other social benefits, social assistance shall be there as a safety net. But for the Christian People's Party, it's important that this is a temporary benefit, and that Nav is aware of helping the recipients on other arrangements. Then clarification and individual treatment and follow-up are important. Then activity is also an important keyword. We don't want passive social welfare recipients, but we want to get as much back into activity as possible. Today, we see that for many municipalities, their responsibility is not conscious, and lacks an activity offer for the social welfare recipients. It can lead people into permanent passivity. That's why I'm glad that the government parties support our proposal to get a more thorough treatment of what we can do to activate more social welfare recipients. It is important to make the right choice, so that all those who are receiving social assistance, as well as those who are receiving social assistance, for example: disability benefits, old-age pensions or are oblivious to requiring an activity shall be excluded. When the debate here concerns only activity as a whip, I would also like to stress that some of the important things about this matter are precisely that the municipalities should offer activity. It is often the challenge, too, that municipalities are not good enough to follow up those who are on social assistance, both because they are not offered activity and because they are on social assistance for a long time. To make the importance of a greater focus on social welfare beneficiaries visible, I want to bring forward the municipality of Tvedestrand, which I believe is doing a very important and good job. They found that the status as of 1 January 2012 was that 70 young people under the age of 25 were job seekers, and that 30 young people were on social assistance or were without benefits. This is a municipality with approx. 6000 inhabitants. They now employ an active person and demand activity to receive social assistance to help more young people return to education, activity or work. They have done this as a significant contribution to early interventions and prevention. I think the Council of State and the Department should take note of this and follow closely the development of the municipality, because in the fight against poverty this government needs new thinking. This case also has another important proposal that the government parties unfortunately do not support. In order to prevent parents receiving social assistance from experiencing that if children under the age of 18 have their own income below the tax-free income limit, social assistance is curtailed against it. This should be a clear proposal to support. First, it's unfair for the kids who experience it, and second, these kids aren't motivated or inspired to work a little. It is very common to have a summer job or a part-time job to make some money for example. to take a driving licence or to be sure of any pocket money. The fact that parents of these young people are then at risk of being drawn into social assistance is difficult to understand can be reasonable. It should be agreed by the parties to the Government so that this proposal could be adopted. Then I see that the Labour Party has today clearly settled on a line of conflict, through the representative Henriksen, and that they are still going to attack the Christian People's Party to get closer to the Advance Party than the Workers' Party. I'm not afraid to get close to one or the other party. What I'm concerned about is the policy that's being adopted. If getting closer to the Progress Party is to prevent parents from being deducted from social assistance because the kids are earning a little bit, I'm very proud of it. Or if that's the proposal that the Christian People's Party joins with just the Workers' Party about looking at how to get a better activity offer for those who are social welfare recipients, I don't understand the criticism either. We in the Christian People's Party are trying as best we can to be constructive, and we are working for a policy that can ensure that more people get out of poverty, that more people get into activity, and that fewer people get into social security. I sincerely believed that we agreed on just this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2861	The representative proposal contains three different social assistance proposals. What they have in common is that they will restrict the ability of municipalities to exercise discretion and make individual judgements in each case. I believe that is the wrong way to go. Today's social legislation obliges municipalities to adapt measures and services to the individual's situation and needs. The individual assessment and treatment are fundamental to social work. The economic benefit is one of several instruments. It shall, together with other services, help each person to overcome the difficulties that prevent him or her from caring for himself and his or her family. People who receive financial benefits often have problems other than purely economic ones. It is therefore important that the Nav Office, together with other public service providers, should be able to take account of the whole of the problem complex, and together with the problem in question, to find measures addressing the causes of the problems. The development of services in recent years has therefore been directed towards a greater — not less — degree of individualisation. The fact that children and young people in disadvantaged families are given good growth conditions in line with peers is fundamental to social services. This consideration shall also serve as a basis for assessing young people’s own income when a family is seeking social assistance. However, a scheme whereby municipalities can never take account of the fact that children under the age of 18 have their own income is not unproblematic and will include, among other things: cause demarcation problems. For example, how should this be done? a distinction is made between savings arising from the work of children and those arising from other sources, such as: heritage and gifts? I am also concerned that such an absolute rule can lead to some young people being forced to work more than they themselves want to contribute to the family's overall economy. The fact that children with parents receiving social assistance, in the same way as other children, will enjoy their own income will be further underlined in the new circular that is being prepared. I agree with the proposers that it is important to use active measures that can contribute to the self-sufficiency objective. I am concerned that the municipalities should use conditions of activity constructively. The law opens today to a decision on the obligation of activity as a condition for social benefits. This option is used when deemed appropriate. However, a legal requirement to have an activity obligation will have to be followed by a number of exceptions, relating to groups or individuals which, for various reasons, cannot or shall not be subject to an activity obligation. This applies, for example: persons receiving supplementary social benefits from social security and persons with heavy responsibilities for care. I want to ensure more information about the use of the activity requirement. I therefore support the majority of the Committee, all parties with the exception of the Right and the Progressive Party, which ‘will the government come back with an assessment of the extent to which social assistance can and should be combined with activity requirements and with proposals for how this can be done’. Proposalers want to state social assistance. I disagree. The crucial thing for users is that they receive good care and adequate timely support. Whether it is the municipality or the state that is responsible for the payments, hardly means anything to the individual. Proposalers also want social assistance that is more norm than it is at present. I believe that economic social assistance should still be a last safety net, based on the principle that this benefit is a subsidiary benefit and measured to meet an individual need. Any introduction of norm rates would be contrary to this principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2885	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2888	I just want to correct the Council of States: she heard for sure that I said that the Right also came to vote for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Just so it's said. My question is really very simple. We agree that the municipalities have an opportunity to impose the activity as a condition for receiving benefits. Does the Council of State think that this possibility is often used today enough? So there are actually three possibilities: either it's a yes, or it's a no, or you don't have enough numbers to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2896	I was going to say that it is a yes, a no or a ‘do not know’ – at least ‘not enough’, and that is what I have said when I have said that we are going to review this very carefully. I do believe that one of the reasons why municipalities – and that concerns both the Right Municipalities and the Workers' Party municipalities – do not use this may be a lack of good activity. There are many reasons not to do so when appropriate, but there may also be cases where, at least in my view, it would have been appropriate, but where it is not used because even right-wing municipalities do not have good activity. I think we should be so honest to say that we have a general problem in terms of activity requirements in this society, and that is finding good activity opportunities. I heard that the representative Red Isaac also said that people we're going to get back to society must be put on constructive, good offers; if not, it actually seems destructive. And I think we have a challenge in finding good activity offers not only in municipalities but also in private businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2903	First I just want to say that I very much agree with the Council of State in the answer she gave now. What is important is to follow up the municipalities insofar as they actually offer something. The present proposal, which will be adopted today, can contribute to this. I think one of the reasons that local authorities may not be doing business is that it actually costs money. Social assistance is, of course, a municipal benefit, and through this it can also be clear to get the right benefit, which is state-owned, and which is more closely linked to activity. So I think it's important to get that review. Another challenge I faced in my post is that the municipalities are not good enough to offer activity or require activity, but that you go too long on the benefits. As mentioned in the setting, there was a look in the newspaper about someone who had been a social welfare beneficiary for 30 years, and also that 50,000 out of about 50 000. 120,000 last year had received social assistance for more than six months. What does the Council of State think about that? And what are the concrete measures that social assistance should actually be temporary, as the idea behind it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2912	I fully agree that there are too many people who are long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. At the same time, the numbers are going in a positive direction. That's good. But there's still too many who go on this for a long time. One of the most successful tools we have put in place is the qualification programme. I see that you're concerned that there's some decline in it. This is due, inter alia, to: that you've now been very focused on the fact that it's actually the group that's going in here. The qualification programme is important. So I think we have the absolute best starting point any country can have to bring down social assistance, and that's that we have low unemployment. If we compare with countries that have completely different levels of unemployment than we do, it would be even more difficult to offer something presumptuous. I think activity is an instrument. I also think we should agree that it is a problem to achieve – I repeat myself – good and targeted activity, and it underlines even more to me how important it is that it is the municipality that sits with this, because it is actually the municipality that has an economic incentive by offering an activity to bring down the costs of social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2921	I want to ask the Council of State questions about norms, as we propose. Today you can read that some families can get up to 700,000 – 800,000 kroner a year, while in other municipalities you can get a very small minimum amount, which is perhaps less than what you should be able to live on. Why does the Council of State think it is right and fair and necessary to have so many differences in payments? Does the Council of State feel that it makes sense to have a total sum so high that the family will have less if they go out to work? If, for example: one goes out to work, they lose so much of the economic social assistance that it doesn't pay to work. Wouldn't it have been better if there were equal rates, and also a maximum rate that was lower than the salaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2930	It's always worth working. That is why we need to keep a good income level in this country. We have to work actively against social dumping so that wages don't get too low, so that they compete with the social security. So we kind of have to discuss this at a level where we get a good discussion. It's not a constant problem that people are sitting with 600,000 kroner in social assistance. There has been a look-up – I have also seen that someone has said that it is wrong, I do not want to go into it – but initially it is not. What's important is that social assistance should be the last thing you get, and that's why it should be tailored to your actual economic needs. It has to adapt your actual living situation, and then it's making normal rates the wrong way to go, because in some cases it'll be too high, and in other cases it'll be too low. We have to make a good and individual adaptation. I note that the Progress Party is proposing arrangements in the field of disability, which would lead to a very large number of people falling out of the scheme and getting into social assistance, and then you have to norm it. For me, this is similar to such a minimum standardisation rate that some people are going to get, and that I'm fundamentally against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2939	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2944	I noticed that Giltun’s representative said that it is often the trust-elected people in the municipalities who stop reasonable job offers for the social welfare recipients. I guess so. I have some other experiences. In the municipality in which I live, and in the local government in which I sat, I allowed myself, on one occasion – with the full support of the municipality’s elected representatives – to propose that social assistance be used as a wage for work in the municipality, used as a wage for the needy employed social welfare recipients, instead of providing passive social assistance. That proposal was rejected by the Party of Progress and the Right. Now it is hardly difficult to find examples of a break in social welfare rules. We sometimes hear about examples of payments in the order of magnitude that ordinary employees cannot be aware of. But when it comes to the problem and you're going to try to document these examples, it's going to be a lot harder. The progress party shows in the Bergen setting, where it is claimed that it is possible to obtain benefits, social assistance, in the range of 700000 to 800000 kroner. Even on this occasion, it has proved very difficult to prove that there are some examples of such payments being made. If there were any people who have really managed to get benefits in such a size, there are some people who have not done their job. The whole point of social assistance is that it is an individual benefit, and it is the individual’s life situation that determines the amount of benefits provided. This is the very basic idea of the whole of social aid legislation. It is important to maintain social assistance as a support for living for people who, for a short period of time, have come into a very difficult situation in life and who do not have other sources of income. Social assistance, in principle, is being converted into a social security benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2953	Let me first comment on some sentences to the representative Pollestad. Pollestad says that with the same norm rates across the country you will have a geographical differentiation. It is precisely today's system that creates geographical differentiation! Today we see huge differences between municipalities and municipalities. In one of my own municipalities, the municipality of Verran, social assistance rates have not been regulated for over ten years and are far below the recommended rates. If there's something that creates geographical differentiation, it's today's system. Then I record that where the proposals of the Progress Party concern young people under the age of 18, who take a beehive, who earn money below the tax limit – who go out to work to show that it pays to work – Pollestad says that you agree with the principle that it should not be like that. It also says the Workers' Party – they agree with the principle that children should not support their parents, but you do not see the need to make such a change. Studies from September 2011 — which are not so many months ago — show that 36 pst. by municipalities, tax is levied on the income of young people below the tax limit and shortens the social assistance of their parents. That means that the boy who initially cannot afford to join the football team at the Norway Cup, and who takes a summer job to get enough money to pay for the props to be made, does not get the opportunity because the municipality is taxing the income. So the Labour Party says that here we have to make sure that Nav acts in a different way. This is not below Nav, it is located with the 429 partners to Nav, the municipalities. That's why the Progress Party is proposing to transfer responsibility, so that we get a unified, overall responsibility at Nav. The Workers' Party is also wrong. So I would say – as the representative of the Red Isaac was in the middle of it: I think it makes sense to introduce an obligation to operate. It is also very reasonable to introduce an upper ceiling on how much you can get in benefits. I record that both of these things also point to the Brochmann committee and propose measures to get a better device on this. I record that both the Labour Party and the State Council believe that the Brochmann Committee's proposal in this area is very sensible and good. I – and the Progress Party – think these are good proposals. You should listen to the Brochmann Committee in this area. I would like to conclude by reminding you that the red-green exhibition window in Trondheim has been practicing duty of activity for many years and has a long and good experience in finding good activities. So that's completely possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2968	I would like to add some further comments to the proposal and the debate that have been. Firstly, when it comes to the question of curtailment, one says that an over-categorized code, that is, as proposed by the Progress Party, can give some unfortunate results. We do not disagree with the principle that children should retain their own income, but I find it strange that the Progress Party with open eyes, for example. accepts that pro forma arrangements under tax revenue are sound. The representative of Giltun said that the municipalities should offer the measures. The proposal states that social assistance should become ‘a State responsibility’. So the Progress Party is calling for a system in which the state pays social assistance. This will mean that the municipalities have nothing to do with offering relevant activity and good follow-up that makes people financially self-reliant, because it is the state that takes the bill. So to the proposal of a social aid that's going to be roughly equal all over the country. It is important to be aware that the proposal states that social assistance should be ‘approximately’ equal. But in the contributions from the Progress Party, it has been argued that it should be equal. Then I get a little confused. Does the Progress Party want it to be the same as they argue for from this pulpit? Or do they want it to be similar? And roughly the same as the norm rates, I see as a geographical differentiation, in line with what is being done by the municipalities today. But we're going to be glad today that we have a proposal that gets a majority, where the government parties and the Christian People's Party have come together, where we say we will investigate this with activity more closely. We see the need for improvement. It is gratifying that the Right has come up with the idea that they should support this proposal subsidiaryly. I think it's important that we recognize that not everything is perfect today. I also think it is important that we have fact-based and knowledge-based decisions. Therefore, it was not appropriate to support the proposal of the Progress Party. But we are pleased that the Christian People's Party took responsibility and agreed on a proposal that one should come back to these questions and how we can implement this. The goal must be to have good tools so that more people can become economically self-held.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2983	The current differences in economic social assistance do not in any way reflect the costs of living in different municipalities, but are based only on local political and administrative priorities. The Progress Party now proposes a system that is less bureaucratic, fairer, not least, and that can free up labour and focus on getting beneficiaries into work. It's not about making rates that are different in 429 municipalities – or how many there are now – it's about you being able to adjust something if there are very special areas where there are very special costs. It's not about having the differences that are today. This is just to have a way of adjusting, so it's not worth spending a lot of time on that term. I have difficulties in understanding the Council of State's argument that financial benefits should not be restricted upwards, and that one should at all times relate to the costs of those who are going to receive social benefits, or the need they have at all times. Work should always pay off, says the Council of State. Then I can only understand that the financial assistance must be below what he/she would have received from working. Then it's about low-wage work, which most people will have the opportunity to go into. Today, the income of children is included, as has been said here several times. I wonder if the Council of State has not thought about this with black work. Very many beneficiaries work black next to retaining the social security. They would not be able to do that if they had to meet up with a job every day. The reason why we're proposing municipalities is that the municipalities have a lot of unfinished jobs. There is a lot to do, and there are a lot of tasks that are suitable for those who don't have so much work training from before. They will then receive good work training, because cooperation between Nav, state and municipality is fully possible. That is what you get today, even where it is desirable. Employment training is one of the most important, and it should be an obligation for the public to provide employment training, and not that it should be optional for municipalities. One of the most important things about social assistance in addition to economics is just to give people an opportunity to get into work, and there is no experience that is more valuable than work experience. Why, then, does the majority want it to be up to the local government? I think the example of Gullvåg gave was very good. Whether it is the Progress Party, the Right Party or the Workers' Party that is voting for such a proposal, it is pointless. This should not be allowed to be done by the local authorities at all. That's a good argument that it should be statelike and equal across the country, so everyone gets the same opportunity and everyone living in the municipalities gets an obligation to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2994	The President would point out that the word 'unspeakable' is not an appropriate parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e2998	I feel that the President is now beginning to draw very strict lines for parliamentary speech. I feel in many ways that the Progress Party and in particular the Right will open doors when they will now legislate that social assistance should not be curtailed for those who have children under 18 who live at home and who have their own income below what may be the tax exemption limit. Let me underline: Children shall not care for their parents. Children of social welfare recipients will also have their income in peace, in line with everyone else. That's what's the rule today. Then we have to make sure that these rules are complied with. We don't need new rules to establish compliance with the old rules. Furthermore, the Progress Party and the Right propose a legal requirement for the activity obligation of the individual social welfare beneficiary. Again they enter open doors. Municipalities have the right to be subject to an activity obligation. I am for employing social welfare recipients to be put into work and activity. But it also requires that there is provision for employment and activity, and that we provide for a good social follow-up of those involved in these measures, so that social welfare beneficiaries can gradually be able to cope with themselves. However, a statutory obligation of activity, as proposed by the Progress Party and the Right, violates the individual treatment, which is the main principle of all social legislation. In my opinion, the task should rather be to ensure that we establish the necessary work and activity measures around the municipalities, so that those who need them receive the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3007	The representative Giltun wondered why I wasn't for an amount limited upwards in terms of social assistance. The point is that it is today. Social assistance is the last way out, so it's a social benefit for the necessary living. What the Progress Party is actually proposing here is to go beyond that, by setting standards. We disagree. As far as the obligation of activity is concerned, I believe, like the representative of Gullvåg, that it is wise in very many cases. There may be cases where that's not wise. We have a very large number of municipalities – including certainly forward-looking parishes – where the activity obligation is not used. Now we're going to go over and see why you don't do it, and whether there's a need to do it more. But making an absolute rule means I am wrong. In fact, I do not understand the reason for this, and I do not think that there has been any good reason for it during the debate we have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3014	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3028	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3042	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3056	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3070	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3079	The proposal from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposes that the government submit proposals for improvements to the Youth Housing Saving Scheme, which must include an increase in the annual savings amount and ceiling of the scheme, and also an assessment of increasing the deduction from 20 pst. to 28 pst. The reasons given by the proposers are that Norway is among the countries in Europe where private savings are the lowest and that private savings need to be stimulated, especially among young people, in order to save on their first home. The proposers also point to an increase in housing prices over the last 10 to 15 years and an increase in equity requirements for the purchase of housing from 10 pst. to 15 pst. of the value of the dwelling, the entrance ticket for buying the owner-occupiers has increased sharply. I would like to further explain the majority's view. Let me make it clear at the outset that we support the intention of the proposers to increase private savings and agree that the BSU can help to increase the savings for self-employment among young people. However, with increasing housing prices and higher equity requirements for the purchase of owner-occupied dwellings, it is challenging for many to enter the housing market. This, together with the increasing debt of households, gives cause for concern. I would therefore like to stress that we believe that there is a need to consider more measures than the proposals made by the proposers to extend the BSU in order to help young people enter the housing market, not just to increase savings. The background for this is, among other things, with the same intention as the proposers, the government extended the BSU scheme already in 2009 so that the maximum annual savings amount increased from DKK 15 000 to NOK 20 000, the total savings amount increased from DKK 100 000 to NOK 150 000, while the tax deduction rate is 20 pst. Nevertheless, we see that in the relevant age group, i.e. between 17 and 33 years, it was only about 26 pst. used by the BSU scheme in 2009. Statistics from the SSB show a steady increase in the use of the BSU from 1993 onwards, and for 2010 it shows that there were 17 000 more people who used deductions for housing savings in 2010 than in 2009, approximately. 28 pst. So it's increased 2 pst. – with an increase in the deduction of close to 9 pst. For 2011, the value of the tax deduction in the BSU is estimated by the Ministry of Finance at about 770 million. kr. Despite an even increase in the use of BSU, there is a large majority who do not use the scheme. There may be many reasons for this, including: that young people of the age group in question are under education or for other reasons have no income and therefore have no savings nor are they able to use the tax deduction scheme. But it may also be that the BSU should be made even better known, so that more people use it. According to the letter from the Minister of Finance, a higher proportion of high-income young people use BSU than the proportion of low-income young people. Of those using the scheme, persons with higher income also have on average higher savings and tax deductions than persons with lower income. Therefore, there may also be a need to look at the current system sufficiently when young people with lower incomes. This issue does not concern the proposers in their proposal. It may therefore appear that the proposal to extend the BSU alone will not reach the large groups of young people who are going to enter the housing market. The Labour Party wants to facilitate the entry of young people into the housing market through the policies pursued, and there are several things that are already being done. The most important thing we do is to conduct a responsible economic policy that ensures jobs and a stable interest rate. This is the most important thing we can do for everyone, including young people looking for housing. Other instruments implemented by the government in recent years include an increased framework for various loan and grant schemes through the Husbank to meet, among others. home purchasers for the first time. This is e.g. start-up loans, which are a loan arrangement through the Husbanken for, inter alia, young people in the start-up phase who are struggling to establish themselves in the housing market or who are having difficulties living in their homes. It is the municipalities that manage the start-up loan. The House Bank shall assist each municipality with comprehensive solutions for those in need of assistance. Good use of start-up loans, housing grants and housing support can help more people to own their own homes or to establish a stable housing situation in a rental dwelling. Everyone should live well and safely. This is the objective of housing policy and one of the pillars of Norwegian welfare policy. It is therefore important to achieve this objective that we assess different instruments that we can politically contribute to. The BSU is one measure to support the desire for young people to buy their own housing, but it is not sufficient, if necessary, to extend this scheme, nor is it certain that it is the best way to give young people good opportunities to get into the housing market. The government has started work on a major communication on housing policy to be presented during 2012, in which the various instruments the government has to deal with young people who want to enter the housing market, including the BSU, will be assessed. The Committee proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3102	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3105	As the representative himself said, it was about 26 pst. that use the scheme — probably also because of poor advice, perhaps because of being under education, and perhaps because the overall tax burden in Norway is quite high, and that many young people have poor advice. Is it so to understand that the Workers' Party will now take the initiative to extend the age limit to not just those who are under 34? You might also want to look at the requirement of 15 pst. equity held by the Financial Supervisory Authority? In other words, you need more than 150 000 kroner to buy a dwelling, for example. in Oslo and Akershus, what kind of housing are you seeing that this group can buy in this region?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3112	We have now tried to extend the BSU scheme, in 2009 – it has not been long since. What the Labour Party thinks is important in this case is that we have to try out what we changed then, to see if it can work. But as I said in addition, it won't be enough to expand neither age limit nor other things in the BSU system to help young first-time start-ups on the housing market. We want to look at other arrangements, including: through the House Bank, inter alia: schemes to increase housing construction. That's what the government, and we, will look at during the year in connection with the housing announcement that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3119	Let me first say that it is positive that the government is now opening up to assess an improvement in the BSU system. However, the fact that one should take it in a big message does not seem to me to be particularly positive, with the experience we have with the government's presentation of big messages, which often lasts for both one and two and three years. Over the years, government parties have used a series of arguments against a better BSU regime. The last thing we heard now is that a better BSU scheme was just one of several measures. I have sent a question to the Minister of Finance, where I have challenged the government on what research, what evidence is there that the BSU will not lead to further savings for young people, and the Minister of Finance must answer that there is no experience in Norwegian research in this area. What evidence is there of Irene Johansen's opposition to a better BSU scheme? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3128	The President shall ask the representatives to stay within the allotted speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3131	First, I would like to stress again that we are not opponents of the BSU in the Workers' Party. I have no evidence other than that which the Ministry of Finance also has, namely that it turns out that few young people aged 17–33 use the BSU scheme. So it was 26 pst. in 2009. Then we increased the boundaries in 2009. Then it was 2 pst. more year after its use. In addition, we have been informed by the Ministry of Finance that it is those with high revenues that use the scheme and, to a lesser extent, those with low revenues. It tells me that it is not enough to look at the BSU system to help young people enter the housing market, we also have to look at other instruments. But we have underlined that the BSU will also be assessed during the year in the big news coming. We need to see the instruments in the context, and we think that's right. That's why we're not in favour of unilaterally extending the BSU right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3140	When you hear the rapporteur's comments, and to the extent that he reads the comments, I feel that it is very strange that you are not really very excited about this scheme, but that it is so popular that you don't exactly dare scratch it either. My question is, is this really the attitude, that now we have it, so then we have to live with it, but we don't really like it? Question two: Now that increased demands are made on equity, it will of course mean a great deal for those who are initially established in the housing market. Does the representative consider that, in isolation at least, the quota that can be used on the BSU should be increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3147	Once again, I would like to stress that we are positive to the BSU. We've actually expanded it once, just because we see that it might be good to have for someone. But as I've said several times now, not so many people use it. But we haven't said we're going to remove it for that reason. It's positive that 28 pst., at least it was in 2010, using the BSU and actually saving. We are positive about increasing savings in Norway. So once again, I want to stress that we're positive to the BSU. But we see that it is so challenging to get into the housing market for young people, for new entrants, that we need to look at more tools. It is clear that the increased equity requirement has also made it even more challenging for the initial start-ups. However, we do not believe that we should unilaterally increase the BSU for that reason. We have to look at several instruments in the context, and there is no ban on saving more than the limit set in the BSU.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3153	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3156	All self-stimulating measures that encourage people to take responsibility for their lives are fundamentally positive for individuals and for society. Housing savings for young people are just such a measure. We who live with young people in the house know that planning several years ahead in time is rarely the main theme around the dinner table. BSU helps to change this pattern. The BSU contributes to providing young people with a conscious relationship to work, to pay, to tax, to savings, to interest, to housing costs and not least to self-declaration. At the same time, BSU gives young people a customer relationship with the bank that can be useful later in life. BSU is a preparation for the adult world and a signal that responsibility will be asserted. In a society where there is a lack of consistency, the Progress Party believes it is important that we maintain and strengthen self-rewarding schemes and that we do not allow good arrangements to be put in place on the grounds that someone chooses not to make use of them. All parts of the Stortinget are trailers of the BSU system. Such a touching consensus is a rarity, and the Stortinget should therefore discuss constructively how the scheme might be made even more attractive to young people. Of course, there will always be many who will not avail themselves of the scheme, but we must not get there that the good will be the enemy. An improvement in the BSU does not mean that there are no other measures that can also facilitate access to the housing market for young people. Not all young people have taxable income, and therefore BSU cannot be used by all. But it doesn't make the scheme any less relevant. The BSU is most attractive to those with stable income at an early age. This means that the scheme is generally less attractive to those who choose a long academic education, as these will only exceptionally enter the tax position. BSU is therefore a good incentive for young people with vocational training, and we need more of them. The Progress Party has been a driver to improve the BSU scheme. In our alternative state budget for this year, we proposed to increase the overall savings ceiling to NOK 300,000, increase the annual savings to NOK 25 000 and increase the interest deduction to 28 pst. This proposal did not receive a majority. The proposal that four parties are promoting today is not as ambitious, but a clear improvement in today's conditions. We ask the government to increase the annual savings and ceiling for the scheme, while asking the government to consider increasing the interest deduction from 20 to 28 pst. The deduction would then correspond to other interest deductions. It is important that BSU is amended in line with changing framework conditions. The requirement for equity for the purchase of a dwelling has today increased from 10 to 15 p.m., which contributes to making BSU a relatively less interesting arrangement. That's something we're all losing on. The majority, in commenting on a letter from the Minister of Finance, report on housing policy during 2012. The Progress Party is surprised that government parties’ large-scale representatives cannot decide on the BSU’s specific proposals for improvement on an independent basis, but instead actively seek to find weaknesses in the proposal. It's a little constructive. The price of dwellings is, of course, a result of supply and demand. In its comments, the Progress Party refers to a proposal for a representative to be examined by the Municipal and Administrative Committee, where we propose a number of measures which, overall, will make it easier to build new dwellings. Despite good intentions, there is no doubt that rules, restrictions and conditions have made housing more expensive and less flexible locally and centrally, whether in terms of design, height, protection, energy regulations, final inspection or guarantee requirements. The fact that the government maintains a penal tax for the purchase of housing by keeping to the document fee is also an unnecessary costing element in the purchase of housing. I take up in this context the proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal is not included in the vote, but is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3182	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3187	The debt of Norwegian households is alarmingly high. It has also expressed its concern at various occasions. The opposition in Stortinget, like the government parties, is committed to increasing private savings. The question is how to stimulate it. My question will then be as follows: I believe the representative Tybring-Gjedde that the 89 pst. which does not receive a maximum tax deduction at the current BSU framework will save more if the framework is increased? In case the representative Tybring-Gjedde thinks so, by what reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3194	I think more will save. I think more will save more, the more favorable the rules are. I don't think that's how people save the max, I think they can have the opportunity to save more. The more favorable it gets, the more they'll save. I'm absolutely convinced of that, and I don't think it's like that it's just those who save, who want a different economy if it's not a better system. But I think a better system will actually increase savings, and I haven't seen evidence that that's not the case. In 2009, savings increased by increasing the benefit of having BSU — and better conditions. That's how we should do it -- by stimulating people to save. Because it has so many other advantages that no other type of saving has – as I mentioned from the pulpit. Taking responsibility for your life is what you have to do. We would rather make better advertising for the BSU than saying that one does not make it work. Where is the government's advertising of the existence of the BSU, and where are the initiatives that make more young people save? I haven't seen them yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3201	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3204	We are facing significant challenges in the housing market. Under the red-green government we have experienced in Norway a loan party with ever worse conditions for private savings. I think it's positive to stimulate private savings, I think it's positive that young people save on their own housing, and I think it's positive that we adults save on our own pension. Saving is positive! We experience a discussion about a potential housing bubble that is based on increasing prices and increasing debt in private households. We are facing the danger of increasing social divisions in the housing market, because it has become increasingly difficult for young people to enter and buy their first dwelling. I agree with the representative Irene Johansen that the answer to this is not just to increase and improve the BSU scheme, but I disagree that you should not start by stimulating private savings. Of course, a series of measures is needed. We need to build more. The answer is not what the left-hand side has been after for many years, that you have to tax more. No, we need to build more. We need to motivate young people to save more, and not to borrow more. Then I register that the red-green parties now – and I'll think it's under pressure from the Center Party – open up a small assessment of the BSU scheme sometime in the future. But you continue to argue with the same arguments against the BSU. We heard it now referred from the representative Irene Johansen that there are so few savings in the BSU scheme. But there's some argument that there's 25 pst. which saves in the BSU scheme? In that case, that would be a strong argument against the tax deduction of the trade union quota. I'll think it's not more than 25 pst. who are members of the LO. But nevertheless, the Workers' Party is eager to see the trade union deduction only become more favourable and favourable, because it wants to motivate more people to become trade unionised. Well, then you should also make the BSU more favourable, so that you motivate more people to save more. The second argument is that they are as rich as they save in the BSU scheme. We're talking about youth. We're talking about young people, where those who have the most benefits from this scheme are the ones who go the fastest way out into the housing market. We're talking about a system that, according to a survey, shows that nine out of ten saves without the parents contributing. The parties to the Government have not documented their claim. The last thing is that it doesn't lead to increased savings. But neither is it documented by the government parties – rather on the contrary. When I send questions to the Minister of Finance, I actually get the answer that theoretical research can indicate that it does not lead to increased savings, but empirical research shows, according to the letter from the Minister of Finance, that it can lead to more savings. And then it's added that we don't have documentation from Norway. However, there is no reason why it will have less effect in Norway than it will elsewhere. When we look at what happened in the last year, the government has helped to make it harder for young people to enter the housing market. The equity requirement has been increased from 10 to 15 pst. It's accepted the right, but we've made a strong assumption, that we're improving the BSU system. Without a better BSU scheme, it will be more difficult for young people to enter the housing market. We have also documented from the 1990s that the BSU scheme actually had equity left over in meeting the equity requirement of 10 pst. Then we now have a situation where one who saves all the money in the BSU scheme will actually lack well over NOK 100,000 to buy an apartment of 70 m2. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party assume a great responsibility when they say no to improving the BSU system now. We will experience increasing social divisions in the housing market if we do not now start motivating young people to save more. A better BSU will be a good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3237	The proposers, in their joint comment, note that they are disappointed that the government does not take ‘the trends of strongly increasing social divisions in the housing market seriously’. Does the representative Jan Tore Sanner think that the social divide in the housing market will be reduced by providing increased tax subsidies to the small proportion that can afford to save more than the current BSU framework reduces?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3242	The answer to the question is yes. Motivating young people to save more will help to reduce social divisions in the housing market. What increases the distinctions is that the equity requirement has now been increased, that it is not being built enough, and that it has become more difficult for young people to enter the housing market. You see the same thing in the immigrant group, that it has become more difficult for many immigrants to enter the housing market. So motivating more people to save thinks we'll be involved in building down the social divisions. But then there's this assumption from the Workers' Party about only 25 pst. I'd rather turn it around and say it's great that 25 pst. by young people in a concrete scheme to build up capital to buy their first dwelling. That's amazing! And then we should motivate even more people to do it by making the system even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3253	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3257	Everyone with government experience in this will know that majority governments present tax proposals in connection with the annual budgetary documents, not as a result of opposition proposals. That said, it is clear that time is working to improve the housing saving scheme for young people – the BSU scheme. It's interesting to see that all the opposition parties say this, also in the first sentence of their remark, that the government parties have a more positive attitude towards BSU than before. I can confirm that. That's right. The debt growth of individuals is alarming, and too much equity is too low in the case of housing purchases. Therefore, the Financial Supervisory Authority, which has been involved in several cases, has increased the equity requirement to 15 pst. in the case of the purchase of a dwelling. It is true that the authorities ensure that there is a greater degree of negligentness at the time of borrowing. An improvement in the BSU scheme is therefore a natural follow-up to the assessment of the Centre Party. Learning to save, to play with the banking system, so that you get the alternative use of money for youth, is important. And as many people have said, this is an attractive opportunity, not least for young people who go out early in their working life through practical occupations. It's also important, as government parties say, that you look at several instruments. I must say, as former State Secretary in the Ministry of Local Affairs, that it is sad to experience that the House Bank has now gained a much smaller role in social housing. Some of the reasons for this are the EEA Agreement – I am not going to go too far, but it is important to get it out – which limits the extent to which the public through its bank, the House Bank, can contribute to reasonable funding, reasonable start-up for young people through home banking funding. We have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time, it's clear. Another thing I would like to point out here is the Norwegian Housing Policy tradition, which is to facilitate, through tax subsidies, that most people can buy their own homes from the sober standard in which they live. There are no rules for private individuals that involve more subsidisation taxically than rules in the housing sector. The background for it is just that one should be able to live in an owner-occupied dwelling, and that it should be of the sober standard. It's important to keep going. Owning your own house, with all the activity around it, and the pietism and the creativity that comes from it, it's important to take care of. However, what the government needs to look at is the increasing investment in housing, the need to make use of the favourable tax rules and to invest in housing through this tax subsidy. There is little reason to subsidise investment in housing like other rentals. Therefore, it is important to make a more fiscally clear distinction between living in your own nocturnal dwelling and investing in housing. If one increases the tax on investing in housing, the increased tax revenue may be used, inter alia, for: to improve the BSU scheme. As is known here in the hall: the centre party has long been a supporter of improving that scheme, through both an increased annual amount, an increase in the sum and an improvement in the percentage tax deduction. It is incredibly important that young people, not least young people with practical skills who are now in many cases well paid for work, are stimulated to save some of their income, enter that culture, and thus not become such contributors to the profits of financial institutions that we see too many remain today – to put it in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3272	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3275	In the last year, the right has gained more and more values and policies in common with the Senterung judgment. The former director of the Centre for Youth stated that unfortunately, the Workers' Party and SV are concerned that the rich will benefit from the scheme. It's at best an unwarranted and out-of-date ideological spinal reflex. Lundtigen follows as far as possible the following: Restrictions at BSU give false notice to the youth. Then it's a little bit of the double communication that the Center Party and the Senterungdom are doing in the media, where it's really said that you want to boost housing savings for young people, while in every budget under the government that's now sitting, you haven't had the power to do one thing in addition to making it worse for young first-time settlers to buy housing. How does it relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3282	The attitude of the centre party towards housing and youth is clear. We want to improve the BSU system, while at the same time wanting to improve the House Bank's arrangements, so that those who have major problems acquiring their own housing can do so through favourable house banking funding. That's our line, and then we know that in any budget there's a total balance of what becomes the priority proposals. So far, the Senter Party has not reached as far as we would like. But what the opposition also says about what is now the setting is that the need to improve the BSU system and improve the House Bank's legislation in this area is becoming more important and more important as we see the housing situation developing. So here we hope that the overall activity will lead to improvements, because that's quite natural, not least as a result of the increased equity requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority in the purchase of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3289	It seems to me that the representative Lundteg is a little uncomfortable with being in this government constellation. I heard him earlier today speak of removing parts of the property tax on working capital and now raise the issue of not being able to invest in property in other ways, but agree that something should be done with the BSU. Is it so to understand that Lundtigen also wants to look at the age limit? That's my one question. The second is that Lundtägen has not said so much about the 15 p.m. requirement of the Financial Supervisory Authority, which has the effect that the Financial Supervisory Authority is actually engaged in housing policy in Norway. Lundtigen also suggests that it should be possible to get a decent dwelling. But when you look at the Oslo area and Akershus, how many homes are there really that you can get with 200,000–300,000 kroner in equity, which is the consequence today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3296	There were a lot of things at once. I said that we should distinguish between taxes on living in owner-occupied dwellings, compared to investing in housing. There is no reason to subsidise as much in terms of investment in housing as other rentals, as is currently done. Furthermore, there is no need to change age limits, 17–33 years. This is aimed at youth, and a 33-year-old needs to be a reasonable adult youth. To the extent that the Financial Supervisory Authority operates housing policy: yes, they do so, indirectly. It makes sense that we have a sober financial supervision. I'm recording that the Progress Party doesn't want such negligentness, so there we disagree. And finally, in terms of the price level of dwellings in the Oslo area: Yes, it's high. It's too high, as a result of a centralization that shoots speed, which is one of the biggest challenges of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3305	I want to return to this equity requirement, in which the Right – under doubt – has supported the government, because we assume that the government will make a change to the BSU. That is why we have proposed something. In the feedback to this proposal, the government writes that measures to be presented should be considered. In the 2011 budget and in the 2012 budget – quite identical to the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – the Centre, Lundtägen youth organisation, demanded to increase the annual savings to NOK 30000, to increase the total savings and to increase the deduction rate, and to change the age limit. Not one thing of this seems to be that the Center Party is capable of getting to. Does Lundtigen think that the problem is no longer the Central Party, but that it is the Minister of Finance, Mr. Sigbjørn Johnsen, who is the problem here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3314	It is quite right that in many of their tax proposals, the Centre Party focuses on the situation of young people. It is quite correct that we have an increasing pressure in our organisation – not least in the youth organisation – to increase the annual savings amount and increase the limit up to NOK 300000. And we don't see any special reason why it should be 20 pst. minus here, as opposed to 28 pst, which is the general tax rule. So there's an attitude in the party to do this. At the same time, anyone who has been in government knows that there is a balance in sum – where one should have tax relief and where one should have tax burden. As far as this government is concerned, we have the tax promise, which we loyally follow up, and therefore this is a total balance that we are facing. So far, there have been no changes, but when you see what is happening in the housing market — the lack of savings by young people and the situation of real interest rates — the time is working for a major improvement in the BSU system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3323	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3326	I listened with interest to what I almost have to call a kind of love statement from the Right to the Senterung, and it's been so long since I've heard anything similar, that I noticed in it. So there's a little bit of new times, and it can be positive in a lot of ways. There is an overall opposition that promotes this proposal, and there is an overall government constellation that rejects it, and that is not so unusual in terms of representation proposals in this Chamber. But here we should perhaps be able to expect a little more attendance from the government parties, all the time that while we've been discussing this matter, the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority has made a change in the equity requirement, which will undoubtedly mean increased demands, especially for those who are going to establish themselves for the first time in the housing market. That in itself should be enough for some more positive signals from the government parties. I can only say – both in the light of the statements made by the rapporteur and the line changes and in so far as the comments are concerned – that you get the impression that there is a pen that you express that the BSU system has something at all. From the Christian People's Party we think this is important. Learning youth saving is of itself important; we have a debt ratio for private households in Norway that is among the highest in Europe. In fact, we also see trends in class distinctions in residential supply in Norway, such as the United Kingdom. because those who have parents with housing that can be pledged for new loans have a clear advantage over those who do not. This is developing more and more. Then one must not see this in isolation – there I fully agree with the rapporteur’s comments – but it is striking how passive this government has been in housing policy. Traditionally, I have at least imagined that both the Workers' Party and SV and the Center Party have seen housing policy as one of their most important areas, and here nothing has really happened in the last six years. To take an example: We promoted a proposal from the Christian People's Party before the summer on a system of'renting before owning'. There were nice words in the comments from the government parties there as well. This could be a concrete contribution, including: so that first-time non-equity start-ups can enter the market. Those were nice words, and you wanted to follow up, but for the time being we haven't seen anything, and now you say that you push everything in front of you for a coming housing report. So I would recommend the proposal, and I would also like to congratulate the representative, Lundtigen, on fighting for a better BSU in a certain place in a week or two.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3348	In the answer letter from the Minister for Finance, it is stated that approx. 26 pst. of young people between 17 and 33 years of age using the BSU scheme in 2009, of which 42 had PST. the maximum tax deduction. So it was just 11 pst. total in the relevant age group with a maximum tax deduction in 2009. Then it is stated that young people with high incomes use the scheme to a greater extent than those with low incomes. Does the representative believe that it is right — from a distribution point of view — to use the Community funds to provide additional tax subsidies to the amount that is currently subject to a maximum tax deduction? Or does the representative see that perhaps some of these means should also be used for other means of reaching a broader layer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3355	The problem is that we see no other instruments from the government. When the opposition proposes other instruments – I mentioned a proposal for ‘rent before ownership’, which can easily be used in the municipalities and which some municipalities have gone ahead with – the position also answers no to that. So my answer must be: the better you get some arrangements, at least, that make quite a few among the youth groups, and that can now give them an opportunity to get a savings rate that allows them to achieve the reinforced equity requirement that the Financial Supervisory Authority has made sure that we now have. That, I would think – in isolation – should make the government parties think about it, but it has not yet been done. I hope that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3365	A lot has already been said in this matter, so I will be brief. The left has programmed an increase in the amount limit in Housing Savings for Youth, so it is quite natural that we are involved in this proposal for a representative. Of course, I have received the arguments from both the finance minister and the government parties at Stortinget that it is important to keep order in the economy, and the House Bank is important. Of course, the left fully agrees with that. The left has a responsible economic policy, and we are in favour of the House Bank. In addition, we think it is important that young people take responsibility for their own lives and their own future. It's good that the red-greens are more positive to the BSU than before, but they're worried that it doesn't hit, as I see it. I'm not sitting on any government policy about who uses the BSU, but what I've seen, and what I hear in practical life, actually points in the opposite direction to what the government parties write. I know that those who use BSU are young people who don't have a solid economy, neither family nor personal, but who want to secure their own future, perhaps just because they don't have that security net around them. The left has contacted the Investigation Section, which has again been in contact with the Statistical Central Bureau on statistics on persons using the BSU. The SSB says that they do not collect statistics on the background of those using the scheme. The SSB does not have statistics linking borrowers in the BSU with age, socio-economic group or family relationships. They say that for the sake of the reporting burden, they have not found it appropriate to obtain as large and detailed data as in practice. will involve the collection of data both at individual level and with variables linked to the use of the BSU. We actually don't know that much about this. A list of the number of persons saving in the BSU, broken down by gross income, is shown in letters from the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation to the Financial Committee of the United Kingdom on the BSU. This shows that 70 pst. of those who saved in the BSU, had a gross income of less than 400000. In conclusion, it is strange, as many people have said, to increase the requirement for equity by buying a dwelling to 15 pst. – something that the Left agrees with – but at the same time does not want greater incentives for young people to save more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3380	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3383	In addition to the BSU, we should be able to look at other measures that may be more likely to take those we want to take. An extension of the BSU, both in annual amounts, in total amounts and increased tax deductions, we know that we will cost several hundred million dollars. So when we're going to spend several hundred million dollars a year getting young people into the housing market, is the representative tending to be sure that expanding the BSU is the most accurate tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3388	I agree, of course, that more means have to be used, and I also said that in my post here instead. And then it turns out that if you increase it, as the rapporteur was about to say, there are several applicants. That in itself I think is very positive. But I have one concern, which I think we have been far too little in here today, and it is precisely those who are pushed out on the rental market. If there's something that really creates social inequality, it's that someone doesn't get into the housing market. I'm actually much more concerned about those who have to rent and don't have the opportunity to save money, so that they can own in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3395	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3398	This is an important debate, not primarily because it is about housing saving with tax deductions, but because it is a debate about housing policy, which is important in a broader context than just the one we are discussing today. In general, it is important that one facilitates the good entry of young people into the housing market. There are several measures that may be relevant – the BSU may be one action. But what is the main challenge in the housing market today is that there are too few dwellings built, that there are too few homes targeted at the youth group. Here we can all do more to get to that. There is also a background for the government to promote a communication on housing policy during the year, so that the Stortinget can have a broad and comprehensive debate on housing policy, including, of course, housing policies aimed at the youth group as such. Then it's important that one tries to contribute to a culture of saving. Well, saving doesn't necessarily depend on getting a tax deduction, because it's something you can learn through life. I got my first savings box as a one-year-old – I don't remember it, but I've seen pictures of it – I got my first bank book as a one-year-old, and I put one-doors on a savings cart. It was kind of a culture that came with you from the beginning, saving, putting money aside for different purposes for the future. Building up under a saving culture is important. I'm not going to rule out that BSU can contribute to it, but it's much more than just BSU. If you look at it historically, things have happened that have also helped to save money in banks – or financial savings – have become more beneficial. While inflation and price rise in the past were an obstacle to saving, inflation is now the true opposite. The 1992 tax reform, which reduced tax rates, was a significant incentive for saving because the tax on savings was reduced. The challenge today is that, in general, the level of interest rates is low as a result of the international economic situation, and I also see that there are challenges associated with the relatively high level of effective asset tax on financial saving. This government is not opposed to housing savings for young people. As late as 2009, we significantly improved the scheme. It's like several other speakers have said, that today the value of the tax deduction is about 770 million. kr. It is a significant amount that is thus given to those using this arrangement. So it's like several others have been dealing with, that if one is going to expand the BSU, that means one has to look at it in a larger whole. This means that tax relief to someone within the government's tax promise must mean that someone else has to pay more taxes in different areas. It's kind of not that there's a choice on the top shelf. So one can also discuss: if one had this amount available, either to expand the savings limit, to expand the percentage or the annual savings, one must be able to constantly ask the question whether it could be used for more targeted schemes aimed at young people trying to get a dwelling, but we say that we will evaluate the BSU in the context of the housing notification that we are going to provide later this year. What is important here is that one then has the opportunity to assess this against other instruments in a holistic and forward-looking housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3419	Introduction of a requirement of 15 pst. equity in residential loans has made it more difficult to obtain housing loans. The need for BSU has therefore become even greater. However, the house bank has completely different conditions than private banks. The online newspaper writes the following: ‘Nordics without equity in search of housing finance are now being denied virtually everything that can creep and go from Norwegian banks. However, there is a rescue for you without savings - and for a rescue it is. The solution is called Start Loan. By means of funds from the House Bank, almost all Norwegian municipalities offer start-up loans. In addition to super-low interest rates, you take the swing on the new equity requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority.» According to the websites of the House Bank, start-up loans are given preferably to single dependants, refugees, young people in the establishment phase and people to be resettled after a break in their lives, and loans have increased dramatically by 30 pst. 5.6 B.C.E. kr. The chance of default is therefore much greater with these loans. The house bank is financed by the state and municipality, in other words by the taxpayers. The Minister of Finance is very happy in the House Bank. Is Husbanken's increased gambling with taxpayers' money a practice supported by the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3431	Yes, it is absolutely right that the Minister of Finance is a member of the House Bank – I have been a member of it all along. The House Bank was established in its time for a very specific purpose, in 1946, to ensure that people who had less resources could have the opportunity to establish themselves in a good, reasonable and sensible housing. The House Bank has been, and is still, an important instrument in enabling people, including young people, to obtain a reasonable housing. The start-up loan scheme is such a scheme. I believe it is a good system that is targeted at those groups that have special needs in the housing market, including young people. So, yes, the House Bank is important, and it's important that the House Bank now has a very central role in what we can call social housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3436	I agree with the Minister of Finance that we must have a culture of saving. At the same time, it contrasts with reality, because the reality is that under the red-green government it has become more and more profitable to borrow and less and less profitable to save. At the end of the day, we cannot help but have some means of motivating young people to save – making savings more profitable. I have no doubt that the result is going to be a better BSU scheme. I hear from the Workers' Party's speakers that you are on the waving front, and that the argument and the reluctance are about to be parked. My question, however, is this: When you have increased the requirement for equity, does the Minister of Finance not see that this is an independent argument for improving the BSU?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3443	An important objective of increased equity requirements and one more — call the responsible lending policy is primarily to try to dampen the strong lending growth we see. There is a link between the strong growth in lending, especially the one targeting housing, and the price of housing. One of the most important measures we can try to achieve is to dampen the price pressure in the housing market. This can be done through the equity requirement that now the Financial Supervisory Authority has set as a guideline, and this can be done not least by building more dwellings. My claim is that there is a lack of housing that is the biggest bottleneck in terms of the price of dwellings, and the largest bottleneck for young people entering the housing market. So here we should put power and resources in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3448	First I have to say that it was interesting to hear about the one-year-old's financial savings products. It's not strange the way was strung out the way it was – I really must say! [[Laughter]] Thank you for that. It might be good for us who have younger children, to know how to do it. Enough about that. So to the question itself, about the BSU and the Financial Supervisory Authority's demands for increased equity. I expect the Council of State to agree that it is in particular the first-time start-ups who will face a particular challenge with the new requirements. Then my question is: Would it not be positive, at least for them, if the government were to land on improving the BSU – of course, in addition to other possible measures, which were also addressed by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3455	I have been, and still am, on a European tour to try to argue strongly for the Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme. One of the arguments that I actually see makes an impression when I tell you is that in Norway, kids get a bank book in a baptism gift, and that way they're inside the economy. It's important to stick to it, and I'm assuming that here we're pretty much in agreement. As for the relationship between the equity requirement and the BSU, I see that the BSU can play a role in that context. But there are also, as the representative Syversen says, other measures that are possible. The initial loan is such a measure. A third possibility is that one is more ahead in municipalities, for example: in the case of the construction of special rental dwellings, and contributes to the provision of special housing for young people with little or no equity. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3462	There was a broken frame, Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3465	That's it!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3470	All those who have spoken in the matter have expressed a positive opinion on the BSU – albeit with a slightly different level of enthusiasm. The good Norwegian tradition with the ability to build and create their own housing has at least been an unconditional enthusiasm for it. When you look at the rise in the price of dwellings, there is a consensus that there is a public order that has been the main cause here. Then my question becomes: Will the government come up with measures, in addition to looking at the BSU, which reflects the extremely unfavourable price developments that have occurred in housing in the last six and a half years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3477	There are probably many driving forces behind the growth we have seen in housing prices. It's obvious that the low interest rate we currently have is contributing to it. The strong real wage growth we have had in Norway lately contributes to this. That there is a lack of housing, and proper housing, e.g. in the press areas, contribute to it. It may also be possible that special requirements relating to the design of the dwelling also apply to the price, in particular to newly built dwellings. One of the points of the housing announcement, which comes later this year, and the message about building policy, which is more about the technical things, is that one can see these things in a larger whole. I look forward to that debate, because it is an important matter both for the government and for the Storting as it comes to the debate. – And now I stayed right within the frame!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3486	The President will even give the Minister of Finance a few seconds, so he has taken in what he broke the frame with in the previous line!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3490	Often it is that the deduction rate is 28 pst, but right for BSU it is 20 pst. My question is, what's the reason or the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3495	Here I have to admit that I was not part of the birth of Housing Saving for Youth, so I may not be able to give a good answer to that question. It is almost so I have to ask for help from those who were at birth, but I think it was appropriate that one put it at 20 p.m., and that it is a whole set in relation to the annual savings and the savings framework, i.e. the total amount, which means that one has arrived at a mix that then contains 20 p.m. But as I said, here I almost had to seek help from those who were at birth, in order to be absolutely sure of the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3500	The President then notes that the change in line is over, and that it is clear that saving has been with the Minister of Finance since birth, while the Minister of Finance has not been with the saving of housing since birth. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3505	I drew because several of the speeches in this debate could give people the impression that BSU is the solution, and the only solution, to the problems that many people experience in the housing market. It's not like that, and fortunately, it just helped the Minister of Finance to sort things out. The ability of young people and others to establish themselves is more fundamental than the amount of the tax credit under the BSU. That doesn't mean it's wrong to make changes to it. On the contrary, it is positive that the government expanded the scheme in 2009 and will consider an extension of the housing notification. But the proposers have to see elsewhere if they want to do something that really matters in the long term. Increased prices are the result of longer-term demand being greater than the supply. The demand for housing is due to an increase in the population, and it is happening throughout the country, but especially in the cities. That too little is due to many things: the lack of ready-to-construct finished land in municipalities, the availability of skills and capacity in the construction industry, long planning processes and the economy of individual projects. Fortunately, construction is now increasing. 2011 was a good year for housing construction. The construction of 27 pst was started. more dwellings than in 2010. That's good, but that's not enough. What is most important for the ability of young people to establish themselves is an economic policy that ensures that people have jobs and avoid unnecessary high interest rates. In addition, a loan and grant scheme through the Husbanken and the municipalities is important. Such measures take young people who are striving to establish themselves, better than the BSU. The representative of Syversen referred to ‘lease before own’ schemes. This is a good example of such measures. The Christian People's Party deserves praise for its proposal on this, a proposal the government parties were positive to, and the House Bank now has such arrangements. But if we do not succeed in increasing the rate of housing construction, we can give up all other objectives of housing policy. It is absolutely essential that the municipalities take their share of the responsibility. Municipal efforts for increased housing are about setting aside sufficient space, planning infrastructure and housing in the context — with rapid and unbureaucratic regulatory and planning processes and a good dialogue with developers. The parties that are behind the proposal we are debating now govern in many of the municipalities where it is most difficult for young people to establish themselves. Unfortunately, in many places local politicians are helping to slow down, not to facilitate housing. I want to challenge those who today have talked about young people's challenges in the housing market to keep the same posts for their party traps in the press communities – that is unfortunately absolutely necessary. Increasingly higher housing prices are not a problem solved by increasing or increasing tax deductions. It needs to be built more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3524	I couldn't help myself when I heard the representative Haugli who hits the nail on the hat, maybe – yes, it's possible he does. However, the representative forgets that it is especially the Workers' Party and SV that in the municipality according to the municipality imposes new restrictions on housing construction. Not least in the Municipality of Oslo, the Workers' Party is an expert on making special demands on noise, on not building so high, and on other restrictions and restrictions. But it is interesting that the representative Haugli is now addressing this, because then I am again given the opportunity to mention the proposals of the Progress Party that we are promoting in the Municipal and Administrative Committee. There are eight proposals, and the representative Haugli can look at the eight proposals. Then it gets better, and then it gets easier to build homes. Then there's a page that Haugli's representative doesn't mention either. He's talking about not building enough homes. That's absolutely correct. But it is also a demand side for which the Labour Party is also responsible. Demand is huge, not least in the press areas. If you think that everyone who comes to Oslo City is going to live in Oslo City, you're wrong. Then you actually have to get out, outside Oslo City, where it's much more reasonable to live. You can't expect to come here without a job, without special education and living in the center of Oslo. That is not possible, and the representative Haugli can take it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3531	I think I'm content to remind the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde that it is not the Workers' Party that rules in the Municipality of Oslo. He is right in much of what he says in his speech, but it is a strange form of parliamentaryism to hold the minority responsible for the decisions taken in a governing body.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3536	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3550	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3559	I'm going to be pretty short. The proposal for a representative is to ask the government to submit proposals to the Stortingen on changes to the rules in the tax legislation that allow spouses who actually live in two different places to have a real chance of obtaining tax accommodation in two different municipalities. I expect the proposers themselves to explain their views. I'm going to explain the majority's view on the matter. In its response to the proposal, the Ministry of Finance reports on current legislation in this area. We in the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party believe that in today's legislation it is possible for spouses living in two different places to have a tax stay in each place. Whether there is a basis for considering spouses as tax residents in a common home or separately depends on an overall assessment carried out by the equality authorities. In order to avoid uncertainties about real housing conditions and unfortunate adaptations, we believe that the determination of where a person with multiple dwellings should be considered as a tax resident should be based on objectively testable criteria. The majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre – therefore consider that there is no need to amend the legislation and therefore do not support the proposal for a representative. The majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3570	Initially, I just want to say that I am a little surprised at the case rapporteur who has such an almost arrogant attitude to the matter. It's basically important, and not least there's a lot of people suffering because of this. It almost seems like you haven't attended the class. It is very rare that the Financial Committee is given the opportunity to debate ideological issues, issues that do not necessarily have a wealth, but which are about how far the State should be able to control people's lives. The matter we are now debating is such a matter. It is therefore disappointing to see how the other parties stand in this matter. Instead of taking sides with the individual, all of them choose to take sides with the State. The majority clearly state in their brief comment that they do not want to address the individual needs, but that such needs are an assessment matter for the equality authorities, despite the fact that the work on the matter has demonstrated that the equality authorities have repeatedly made clear assessment errors in which individuals have suffered unnecessary damage. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that the legislation opens up to treat spouses residing separately, and for that reason there is no need for further clarification of the legislation in question. That's how a real bureaucrat writes and not a politician who should take the goal of making everyday life easier for people. Yes, the problem is marginal, but that's exactly why it's very important. The party has been contacted by several persons who feel overwhelmed by the tax authorities as regards their place of residence. These are people who have presented their reasons why the spouses have chosen separate residences, and then they want to tax the municipalities in which they are actually resident. The answer they have received is that in order to get the opportunity, divorce is the only option. So many people probably think, "Why can't people who are married live together?" But the fact that one has not been in such a situation himself does not mean that the need does not exist. I find it difficult to understand that a tax bureaucrat at the Equation Administration should have some specific expertise in marital matters. And the stories that the Progress Party has been presented show that the beauty being practiced is not very satisfying. We have this opportunity to clean up here today, and I therefore encourage the other parties to rethink their position and vote in line with people's needs and not with the square legislation of the equality authorities. There are spouses where one wishes to live permanently with their old parents — this to relieve and help them in their older days. Such applications have been rejected. There are spouses where one until now chooses to live in an inherited house with a dwelling obligation. Such applications have been rejected. There are spouses where one chooses to live near where their own children and grandchildren live. Such applications have been rejected. Then probably some applications have also been granted, and that's good, but why do we allow in this room that a bureaucrat in the tax system should be able to oversee the spouse's desire to live separately? Do the other parties really think that this is a task for the tax authorities? The desire to live separately is tax-motivated, perhaps some think, well, tax-motivated in the sense that the taxpayer wants the municipal share of the tax he pays to fall on the municipality in which he lives — not an unreasonable wish. Such a scheme would allow taxpayers to avail themselves of municipal services where they actually live — even an unreasonable wish. Once again, I encourage the other parties to give the people we're set to serve, the freedom to determine tax bubbles based on the actual circumstances. I take this up with the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3598	The President would point out that the term ‘arrogant’ does not normally fall within the scope of parliamentary language. In addition, the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3603	This is a matter that engages many people, and requires a real balance from us as politicians. The reason why we have the rules we have is in the context of the continued practice of housing by many municipalities, and it is clear that if this provision were to be repealed, the municipalities which have adopted special rules would also be seriously undermined. At the same time, the Right is concerned that there has to be a regulation that is so flexible that it takes care of real and justified desires to have different tax bulwarks. There is already an opening for exemptions to be granted, but we are also recording, through the contacts that have been made to the Committee and which have been promoted in public space, that it may seem that the practice can yield unreasonable results. That is why the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, will not reject the proposals of the Progress Party, but that we ask that the Minutes be annexed. We also ask that the Minister of Finance carry out a review of the practice so that we can avoid the kind of unfair results that we have been presented. We need to do that, because it is not possible for the Financial Committee or the Stortinget to sit and deal with individual issues, but we want to make sure that the possibility of exemptions contained in today's rules should be exercised in a reasonable and reasonable way. I take up the proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3612	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3615	There are many Document 8 proposals that require our attention and our work, and this proposal, in my opinion, is among the absolutely less important. I heard the representative Tybring-Gjedde draw the ideological lines that everyone had to decide about their own lives, and that the state shouldn't interfere. There was something anarchistic about the representative, and it was interesting to get that depression from the Progress Party. According to the central party's assessment, it's probably the point of being a spouse who likes to live in the same place. The proposal assumes that the spouses living in each of their respective places will have tax housing approved in two different municipalities. As shown in the setting, we have safety valves in very special cases based on objectively testable criteria. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the purpose here is either to reduce the tax burden, to facilitate an increase in public benefits or to distort the right to personal housing requirements for houses and gardens. It is natural, marine, to make such proposals, because it will be very difficult to practice them, and it will be difficult to implement what is a social framework for social organisation. That's why we can't see that there are societal arguments for regulatory changes. It creates more bureaucracy and less equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3626	The tax residence rules specify to which municipality personal taxpayers are to pay their tax. It is important that a person has rules to that effect, because they are essential for the distribution of tax revenue between municipalities and for predictability of the basis on which the municipalities operate. As long as taxes are payable to municipalities and counties, it is also necessary to have rules determining the municipality or county to which tax revenue is to be allocated. I think that's the basic thing in this case. One is considered to be resident in the municipality in which he has his home. Stay outside this home, e.g. as a result of work, the place of residence does not normally change. However, a taxpayer may be considered to have a tax residence at the new place of residence if the circumstances indicate that he has received his home there. Persons living with a spouse or a child are deemed to have their home where a spouse or a child is resident. Thus, the tax residence rules for spouses are based on the assumption that spouses live together on the same estate. I mean this is a natural rule, and there are enough people who agree with me on it. It also applies to most couples, as this is consistent with their desire to have a common home. But then, as others have been in the debate, it is possible for spouses to have different tax bulwarks. There may be several reasons for this, for example: – that someone has experienced – that someone has a dwelling obligation that needs to be fulfilled or other matters that are important in that context. In the rules on tax residence, there are no dispensations and the decision is based on an assessment of the facts according to objective and verifiable criteria, as it is called. For most people, these rules do not create any problems, because there is consistency between the solution on which the rules are based and on which most people perceive as natural for themselves. Most people will probably perceive today's tax residence rules as reasonable. As the representatives behind the proposal themselves point out, it is usually not a tax advantage for spouses not to have a tax common residence, but there are some other legislation that adds, for example, to the tax base. the choice of place of residence legal effects. Dissatisfaction with tax residence rules may also have its background in terms of the fact that the choice of residence confers rights under such rules. It may have an impact on commuting deductions, entitlement to hospitalization, or, as I have already mentioned, the fulfilment of the obligation to live on property. I have noticed that in the Committee there is a significant commitment to the principles that I have now had, and that tax residence rules should be based on objectively testable criteria. I therefore see, like the majority of the Committee, that there is no need to amend the legislation so that the tax residence of spouses can be chosen according to criteria other than those currently in force. But at the same time, I am also concerned that the legislation that is there, which allows for the possibility of having different tax residences, is practised in a manner that is considered reasonable and considered reasonable by those affected by the openings provided by the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3644	Trust is an extremely important contribution to social development. Without trust, many of the supports in our society will be confused. It can be easily done, for example: It mentions our entire financial system, our relationship with the authorities, and not least the relationship between the authorities and the taxpayer, among other things. for the annual declaration of self-declaration. So when I read the reason for not introducing the possibility of being able to choose their own place of residence, which is a total lack of the important trust in the taxpayer, is it so that the Council of State again shows greater confidence in its system than to the individuals who use an opportunity to work where their workforce is needed, and not where their wife lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3650	In the latter case, if you have to take work away from home, for example. being commuting on a weekly basis, as many deposit representatives are, there are rules for it in the tax system that provide for the possibility of having it that way. What's my main point and the majority's main point is that with the meaning of tax residence, as I said, for the income of the municipalities, for predictability of the income of the municipalities, which is so important for our common services, we must have objective criteria, and we must have the rules that we have today. But, as I also said in my article, it is important that the exceptions that the legislation opens up are practised in such a way that people feel that it is reasonable. Of course, the Minister of Finance is concerned that legislation should be practised in a reasonable and reasonable manner, so that people also see it as reasonable and sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3657	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3673	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3682	On behalf of the Financial Committee, I am delighted to present a – not surprisingly – divided position between the government parties on the one hand and the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left on the other. The case is based on a company that, like other companies, has invested in alternative fuels, which will help solve environmental problems. In this case, it might be a fuel that could solve some of the asthma problems, the NOx problem that one sees from traditional diesel cars, and that big cities like Bergen and Oslo are plagued by, especially winter time. It is then something as simple as GTL diesel. The GTL is an abbreviation for Gas to Liquids, which in practice is as simple as the fact that there is liquefied gas converted into diesel, which a normal diesel car can fill in in an ordinary way. For other gas-based fuels, you know that you have to have a specially built engine – a rebuilt car – and therefore there will be completely different costs. The background, then, is that the Customs and Tax Directorate has classified the fuel in a way that the proposers believe is wrong. The consequence is that the price of the fuel is not competitive and therefore there will no longer be an alternative in the Norwegian market. There has been a challenge to the matter for the rapporteur, and certainly also for the committee and the department, because it is a matter that is now in the legal system. Then the committee should also be careful to express itself and write something about the nature of the matter, and I have therefore tried to relate myself as rapporteur to fuel as a type, not the company that sells it. I think we have made that clear in an exemplary way. I'm now going to argue for the Right View. I note that other parties will also speak for their views. I believe that this is a bad political case, especially by the Workers' Party. When this matter became known in the summer, the Workers' Party's member of the Energy and Environment Committee, Torstein Rudihagen, went out and said this was contrary to charging principles. All of them from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree. It is not that all fuels today have a user charge – electric cars do not have it, ethanol does not have it, ordinary gas does not. But for this type, the directorate has introduced a fee. For us in the right, this is also a little bit about the framework conditions. To stimulate researchers, small businesses, which have to invest in alternative fuels to develop local workplaces, typically university environments, production environments, means to avoid fees in a start-up phase. It's been beneficial. So the government and the Stortinget have premiered this. There was a preliminary dramatic stop to that in the biofuels case. The Government writes to the Committee that a comprehensive review of car charges, including user charges, is to be made by 2020 for all to pay user charges in the long term. The starting point for the proposers and the other opposition parties has been that this type of fuel should be exempted from the user fee as long as the government is carrying out the overall assessment. If not, as the Labour Party member of the Energy and Environment Committee, Torstein Rudihagen, says, it is not in line with what one wants. I also understand that there may have been a problem within the Workers' Party. Therefore, I believe that this matter could have been resolved in another way. It may be that the matter could have been resolved better if it had not become a legal case by it. It may have been adjusted in another way, but I feel that the Ministry of Finance has been a little too firm with the Tax Directorate. I would like to thank the Committee for its reasonable cooperation, even if we have not reached an agreement on this issue. I take the opportunity to address the proposal that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3708	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3711	As the rapporteur has explained, it is therefore a matter of whether the fuel GTL should drop the mineral oil tax. The fuel charging system is the subject of a debate we have every year, not least in the context of the treatment of the State budget. At the same time, we know that sometimes there is disagreement between customs and charging authorities and others about products to be covered by definitions that will then be charged. In this case, there is such a disagreement between EcoFuel that delivers the GTL fuel and the customs and charging authorities. The case shall now be tried before the Court, as the Advocate-General has said. Regulatory definition of products to be subject to charging has been granted to the charging authorities. When this case is now to be tried before the court, it falls unnatural for us to make a decision in a single case. We have also explained this in the committee position. But I would like to add that it is unnatural for us to conduct individual proceedings regardless of whether the case is going to court, and in that way ask the government to base a certain understanding of the rules. In the process of dealing with this matter, there has, after all, been good correspondence between several parties at Stortinget and the government. If we allow exemptions for mineral oil charges in individual cases, we would still be challenged at: Where is the limit going? Already today, we see that we are challenged by both definitions of the fuels to be covered by today's legislation and border crossings when a fuel is so clean that it should be exempted or included in today's legislation. Thus, we will continue to be challenged by changing current legislation to adapt to new types of fuels. It's only a few months ago, i.e. during the treatment of the state budget for 2012, the Storting signaled that we want fewer and no more exemptions from the tax, so that by 2020 we can have a user charge for all fuels according to their energy value. We want this because we want to make it clear that there are costs related to driving on the road – in the form of accidents, queues, noise, road wear and emissions harmful to health and the environment. Of course, these costs must be covered. Those who charge the costs must be involved in covering them. However, it is that our charging system is not perfect. Until then, user charges vary too much. Therefore, it is both important and right that we introduce an user charge by 2020 for all fuel types. Therefore, it is completely wrong, in our opinion, to go the opposite way and introduce new exceptions now. With this in mind, we do not support the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3728	GTL is an environmental fuel made of pure natural gas. This environmental fuel can cause significantly lower emissions of both NOx, particulate matter, carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide. The natural gas from which the GTL is made is also an environmental fuel. Therefore, there is no so-called mineral oil tax on natural gas — or other so-called user charges, for that matter. For the drivers, however, natural gas is a major disadvantage, and it is that the cars have to be rebuilt. The ingenious feature of the GTL is that the natural gas has been transformed so that it is liquid at normal atmospheric pressure. That means you can use GTL in normal diesel cars. So the GTL is a smart way to get normal drivers to use natural gas – without having to rebuild the cars. Since natural gas is exempt from user charges, it might be thought that the GTL, which is made of 100 pst. pure natural gas is also exempt from user charges, such as: mineral oil levy. GTL is, after all, chemically free from mineral oil, as confirmed by the Customs Directorate’s own laboratory. However, the working party, SV and the Centre like incomprehensible and twisted rules that hit people the most, and are therefore in favour of a mineral oil tax on a fuel that is neither mineral nor made of oil. In the Minister of Finance's reply to the proposal for a representative, we find the following strange reason for the levy on the GTL: ‘The fact that a product is made from non-taxable raw materials does not therefore mean that the final product is the same.’ The fact that it is also possible to make synthetic diesel from coal is an unusually poor argument in this respect. No one has claimed that coal is an environmentally friendly fuel for the Norwegian car park. I have noticed that the members of the government of the financial committee in the vote argue that there should be a general user charge on all fuels, including those fuels that are currently exempted. This clearly shows that government parties do not take local pollution in cities seriously, but that the opposite is true of the state getting the most money. I wish that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre had a little more empathy with all those who suffer asthma and airway plagues from government policies, where everything is about CO2 and about as much money as possible to the state treasury, and where local pollution and people's health are obviously of secondary importance. Self-taught environmental parties such as SV have nothing at all to boast about environmentally friendly transport. If the Progress Party had got through on its policy, most people would have had newer and more environmentally friendly cars, and environmental fuels would have been much more reasonable than today. In addition, we had environmentally friendly and traffic-safe roads across the country, where people could have driven at regular speeds and with correspondingly low consumption. We also remember what the government parties did to sabotage biodiesel in Norway. Exempting GTL from mineral oil taxes is one of the most important things we can do to limit local pollution in Norway. I urge all those who take severe asthma and respiratory disease to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3754	The representative, Mr Hoksrud, may have the intention of including the proposal in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3757	I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3762	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3765	The case concerns the conversion of liquefied natural gas into diesel. Natural gas is not a biological product, it's fossil gas. The product GTL is charged in line with ordinary diesel in Norway – as in our neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark. As many people have said, what is central here is the source of the carbon or the source of the energy. Is the source renewable, or is the source non-renewable? The source of this diesel is non-renewable. If we were to grant exemptions from user charges for this non-renewable energy source, it would clearly weaken the desired incentive for renewable energy. There is an unfortunate slippage, contrary to the stimulation agreed by the Storting in the case of environmental fuels, in the meaning of renewable carbon, renewable fuels. What's interesting about this case is that the Left and Christian People's Party is involved in this glare, and is unable to clearly distinguish renewable energy from non-renewable energy. As government parties write, it is important that we do not slip out at this point, but stick to the clear distinction between renewable carbon and non-renewable carbon. That's where the main shield goes in the case of that type of fuel.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3778	First, I would like to say to the case rapporteur that he had a balanced and sensible statement – to put it that way – in the sense that one here says that the individual matter itself is important to keep out of the discussion, but that of course one invites to a discussion about the more fundamental things relating to the charging of this fuel. This year, in the context of the State budget, the government arranged for a wide-ranging discussion of car and fuel charges. It was an important basis for a good debate, which we got in Stortingen on these issues. Some of the points of that discussion were that one should have a long-term approach, an approach that would provide a predictable charging approach a little longer in time. What is the timetable, to say the least, is that in 2015 one will evaluate developments, so that from 2020 onwards a general user charge based on the energy content of the fuel will be introduced. I think that is a very sensible approach, because there is no reason to hide that these are difficult debates, and that there have been many discussions about fuel charging in the recent period that may have contributed to predictability being somewhat less than what it should be. Exemptions from the levy today shall remain in force during that period. It is also important that one does not introduce new exemptions, as the minority here would facilitate. I think we should stick to the path chosen by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy in terms of fuel taxes, including the user charge. So just in the end, it's the Customs and Charges Directorate that manages the legislation. They have come to realize that this is a type of fuel to be charged. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the specific case is now before the Court of Justice. There are many such individual cases that appear every year, and it is the role of administration to deal with legislation. In those cases where those who are – I am saying – managed by the administration believe that the administration has not done so in a good way, the case may be brought before the courts. The charging system is not perfect and perfect. The charging system may be more logical and predictable. That is precisely the point of the broad debate it was launched through the 2012 State Budget and the position taken by the Finance Committee, which was backed by a broad majority in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3797	This is a bit amazing: on 16 December 2011, we discussed a proposal on the environmental limit in this Chamber. Then the red-green parties said that due to the large local pollution and the major consequences of local pollution, the environmental limit had to be maintained. In today's setting, they say: «The costs of local emissions represent only a small part of these costs.» Does this mean that the Minister of Finance believes that there is so little local pollution to continue to do as we do today, that there is no need to reduce emissions and local pollution? Shouldn't we have this environmental limit then? Why is it that the government parties say the opposite is true in two cases that have been dealt with in less than three months?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3807	Now I was not present during that debate, but I can imagine that some of the reasons for what was said are that there are small local emissions from a source, in itself there is no reason to drop the user fee. Local emissions are only part of the costs to be covered by a user charge. It shall cover more external costs incurred by road driving in the form of accidents, queues, noise, road wear, health and environmental damage. So that's more than just what the representative Hoksrud is now bringing up. Moreover, this government has given municipalities a greater opportunity to improve the flexibility of transport provision in large urban areas. It is up to municipalities through various measures to organise traffic to reduce pollution, for example: on very cold days, including: particulate dust is a significant source of contamination.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3814	Since the finance minister commended me, I assessed whether to let go of a line from me, but I changed my mind. He based part of his argument that in the case of this fuel, there was a request for a new exemption in a whole pile of other fuel types that had already been exempted. The question of definition here is that those who use this fuel, together with independent research institutes, believe that this is not a new exception, but is already defined within what is. It's not like there's going to be a new fuel every year, and there's a lot of things. There is no daily incident in the Customs and Charges Directorate that Norway is getting a new fuel type. Rudihagen says to the NRK Dagsrevyen in June: «The decision is taken contrary to the red-green intention He requires the intervention of Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen. [[...]] In any event, this would be contrary to the intentions of our charging system". determines NRK’s representative Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3828	Now I really don't have anything against lines. I think it's pretty all right and a nice kind of debate to have it. What is my point when I refer to the discussion that one had in connection with the state budget is that here one tries to add up to a race that is predictable and forward-looking in terms of the discussion of charges. My point was that it would be illogical – in my view at least – to include new exceptions in that context, but would leave the exceptions that are already there to the evaluation and beyond until what is to happen by 2020. That was basically what was my point in the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3835	I recorded that the Minister of Finance referred to all the other measures that could be taken to reduce emissions. But isn't it that the most important thing is to reduce local emissions for people with asthma and allergies? Or is it that it is the revenue that is the only important thing for the Minister of Finance? By saying yes to the removal — it is just about removing — the mineral oil levy could be used in one week to get this going and reduce emissions and local pollution significantly in the big cities. There's a screaming need for that. But it's like the state wants to lose some money. Is that the money that the Minister of Finance now – obviously – is afraid, while the environment may not be so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3840	I'm actually busy with both. The proceeds are important, not just for the Minister of Finance – I have registered that there are many parties, or at least one party in particular in this Chamber, who are dedicated to using a lot of proceeds for different good purposes, and that is an honest thing. However, as I said, a user charge will take into account more than what is associated with local emissions, and it is also true that if synthetic diesel were to reduce local pollution problems, a significant transition to that type of fuel will also have to be made, and of course it will be at the expense of ordinary fuel. One should not rule out the possibility of a costly measure, and then the question is: Could a solution be found, among other things. local pollution problems in a more cost-effective way? But I am concerned about both parts, both the environment and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3845	I just want to follow up that track on environmental emissions, because it is quite obvious that both Oslo and Bergen are screaming for measures to limit NOx emissions. The Minister of Transport has also announced a review, so here we have a fuel where the ZERO environmental protection organisation says that one will have an emission reduction of up to 45 pst. on NOx, up to 40 pst. reduction of particulate contamination, 40-60 pst. reduction of hydrocarbons and 80 pst. reduction of carbon monoxide. There are quite heavy numbers, and this fuel type is paid in addition to the CO2 tax. So it's not like you have fuel that you want to exempt from the fees that are, but ordinary natural gas frees the user fee. This is actually perhaps as good as normal natural gas, as the Minister of Finance and I agree to drop user charges, at least provisionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3859	I believe that in the kind of debates we have now, one should of course not exclude the fact that a single measure contributes to the reduction of local pollution, and the transition to, for example. The use of synthetic diesel on a large scale is likely to contribute to this. But there is something further ahead, because it will require quite considerable investment in order to achieve it. But at the same time, as I also pointed out in my reply to the representative Hoksrud, the government has provided opportunities for local politicians to better deal with local pollution through e.g.: be able to have – one measure that may be relevant – different forms of cow pricing and such things, which contribute to the circulation of traffic, and in particular on days when it is cold and where pollution is high. Public transport is another example, so there are several possibilities to reduce local emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3864	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3869	This is a matter which fully demonstrates the government's real intentions when it comes to important environmental issues. Here the government is undressed, and it's not a very nice sight you're standing back with. We are given clear evidence that when there is a conflict between environmental considerations on the one hand – and this is proper environmental considerations, honoured hall, for these are things that are demonstrably carcinogenic, have consequences for asthmatics and actually cost human lives – and taxes and revenues to the state on the other hand, it is the income of the state that wins. We get that demonstrated time after time. This would have been a very simple matter to do with if you wanted, and the cost-effectiveness, which the Minister of Finance asks questions, is quite obvious, because you can use already existing car fleets, cars people else have bought and used a lot at the invitation of the government through the policies it has had in relation to diesel cars, which have created a lot of the environmental problem we see in the big cities, and not just in Oslo and Bergen. Also in Stavanger and even in Tromsø, this has become a challenge. So you could solve it by putting a different fuel on the tank, which is exactly the GTL, which is based on natural gas, and in no way is either mineral or oil – this is not a mineral oil. In the debate that has taken place in many contexts, including in this Chamber, which has dealt with the lack of real-life skills and real-life professionals, I almost begin to demand the same – and quite clearly – the needs of the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate of Customs and Fees. So here you put a charge on something that is proven not to be related to either the name or the intention of the fee you use. The effect of this is that the environment loses, and the major cities have to impose driving bans and restrictions under difficult winter conditions when it is cold. It has a cost, economic cost, too, for business and for society. But the greatest cost is to human life and health, and it's a reality. NOx and, in particular, nitrogen dioxide is a dangerous gas, which causes cancer, which is associated with it, and also with asthma and allergies, plagues that many people experience, but which unfortunately are not willing to do anything about using something as simple as the tax regime to make a rational and sensible fuel available at a reasonable price, thus also solving the environmental problems in cities. Then I register that in this debate you mix up a lot of weird things. I notice that the representative Lundtigen here from this pulpit is talking about renewable and non-renewable carbon. I couldn't quite understand what we were talking about in that context. The point here is: Yes, it is true that the fuel as such is not renewable. So there's limited quantities of natural gas out there, but there's a lot of them, a lot of them, and we're pumping them out of the North Sea. We have this gas ourselves, we could use it on Norwegian cars. Both economically, cost-effectively and not least in terms of health and the environment, this had gone hand in hand, but once again the government shows its true self, and the consideration of the state's revenues is ahead of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3882	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3896	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3905	Let me first of all take the opportunity to thank the government for presenting an important matter at the right time, and not least thank the Committee for its very rapid and good consideration. It has been important for us to have this matter dealt with quickly in Stortinget. It is of particular importance and is about the guarantee scheme for the first hand placing on the market of fish. The reality is that we experience a little turbulent times out there. There is high unemployment, low economic growth, and purchasing power is falling into one of our key areas of fisheries exports. It is therefore important that we now have a guarantee scheme that empowers the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast to restore the former operational credit guarantee scheme between Innovation Norway and Norway’s 320 million Råfisklag. SEK, of which 240 million. kr is the country’s share. It is a system that could last out of the year and that could be used in the situation that is, with a turbulent market. This is an important issue in order to ensure the marketing of Norwegian fish and not least to ensure that fishermen are supplied with the catch they catch from the sea. I would therefore, of course, recommend the Stortinget to vote in favour of the unanimous vote of the Economic and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3916	With that recommendation, the debate on case No. 20 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3922	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3930	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, proposals No. 3-7, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–7, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to remove dot load on driving licences for motor vehicles and motorcycles.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to intensify the possibility of routine seizure of driving licences by the authorities in the event of road accidents where there are no reasonable grounds for suspecting that the driver has acted negligently.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in control activities on Norwegian roads, especially in the event of poor weather and driving conditions, and foreclosure of use bans under the Road Traffic Act whose vehicle is not suitable for winter driving.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make concrete proposals for increased safety in winter travel with Norwegian and, in particular, foreign trailers on Norwegian roads.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the consequences of changing the tax-technical definition of vans so that all vehicles classified as vans in the EU are classified according to Regulation No. 678/2011 of 14 July 2011, will fall within the Norwegian definition of goods car charging.» [[EU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e3977	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more intensive work on daily rest places on the national road network, tailored to the needs of professionals.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for met cost-reduction models and reduced time-use associated with periodic training of professional drivers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4092	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4102	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4110	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 8, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 9-12, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 13–26, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Party of Advancement There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–26, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to transfer the responsibility for the care of the elderly from the municipalities to the state as soon as possible and at the latest at the time of the submission of the State budget for 2013.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for the introduction of free user choice for all care services, so that the money follows the user.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own case to implement the RAI/RUG payment system in the institutional care system.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case for transferring the financial responsibility for social alarms to the public’. Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to present its own case to ensure that, in particular, resource-intensive recipients do not suffer any deterioration in their service offer as a result of their age of 67.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own case which clearly defines what is part of the concept of happy day care.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the legalisation of the right to hospital accommodation in the case of medically-documented needs.’ [[relevant care measures]] Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is requested by the government at the latest at the time of the submission of the State budget for 2013 to put in place a mechanism whereby users with a proven need who are not offered sick leave receive NOK 1000 per day from the municipalities to purchase other services until hospitalisation is granted.’;» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to change the amount of the remuneration to 25 per cent of the basic amount of the population’. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present its own case to set up its own State Senior Officials.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce binding, normised rates and criteria for care pay at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The decision also asks the Government to ensure that the extension of the BIP is extended to persons staying at the institution.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to file a case on state staffing standards for nursing homes, both doctors and nurses.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assign the Health Directorate Approval Authority to the crew plans at the country’s nursing home, so as to ensure a professionally sound level of personnel, irrespective of their place of residence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4209	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-12, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to legislate on the right to day-to-day activities.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a system of additional incentives or earmarked operating grants for elderly centres in Norway.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan of progress on how to achieve a 25 per cent coverage by 2015 in lucky day care facilities for all older people over 80 years who make the need visible, so as to ensure that older caregivers are offered at the right level of care.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish at least 600 new municipal relief centres for the next four years and to provide grants for their operation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4241	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the remuneration regulation in such a way that older people who have to share rooms in nursing homes against their will receive a 50 per cent reduction in the total remuneration payment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4256	We then go back and vote on proposal No. 7, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of requirements for a certificate of good conduct for persons working with the elderly in the care sector, in accordance with the model from the requirement for a certificate of good conduct for persons working in professions dealing with children and persons with mental retardation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4275	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether other restrictions should be imposed on the remuneration regulation with regard to the remuneration basis, for example by introducing a maximum amount.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend the Health Services Act in the municipalities in order to provide for the implementation of preventive home visits by persons over 75 years of age who wish to take such action.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose its own means of conversion for Norwegian municipalities that implement the strategy contained in the project «As far as possible in their own lives» as one knows it from the municipality of Fredericia in Denmark.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a grant scheme that stimulates municipalities to associate with persons with a clinical nutritional competence.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to the Storting for a commitment to ICT and other technological solutions in healthcare, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2013.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for arrangements to enable patients receiving home care or nursing care to continue with their permanent dentist and to be refunded from the public at the same time as a public dental clinic would receive for the same type of treatment.’ The left has announced their support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4325	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to prepare a provision for the Patient Rights Act § 2-1 which ensures: (a) that, at the same time as setting an individual time limit for treatment, the patient is also provided with information on the time and place of treatment. (b) that the health undertaking responsible for providing health care is also required to inform HELFO immediately if the individual treatment period cannot be met and that HELFO is then responsible for providing the patient with a treatment offer. The patient shall be informed in an intelligible manner, thereby strengthening the possibility of the patient’s rights being respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4345	The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4362	During the debate Jon Jäger Gåsvatn has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to ensure a level playing field for private and public enterprises/enterprises/units/local care services.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4391	During the debate, Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that breast reconstruction after breast cancer falls under priority health care, under the Patient Rights Act. The maximum waiting time, after a medical evaluation, shall not exceed one year after removal of the breast(s).’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that necessary breast reconstruction and post-crisis contracts are concluded with private clinics in order to reduce the waiting time and waiting lists, and requests that the measures be set out in the revised national budget for 2012.’» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4411	The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4444	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1-3, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4. from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to work towards the establishment of a safety-focused and learning culture in healthcare through the introduction of a system allowing patients to report direct deviations in the systems of anomalies that, in the event of an accident leading to death, relatives are guaranteed the right to an aid lawyer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4479	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a more balanced management of healthcare by placing the mission documents and governance dialogue as much emphasis on concrete objectives on patient safety and quality as on economic and other governance parameters that the annual supervisory message of the State Health Authority and the country-wide annual reports of the Patient and User Ombudsmen are transformed into a quality and patient safety report based on the model of the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the Subject of Data Protection that is treated as a wholesale notification on an annual basis that the National Health Authority’s national supervisory notices on different issues of primary health services are to be addressed to the local government that quality, patient safety and working environment are to be a fixed theme in corporate meetings and at board meetings of health establishments. The quality selection of hospitals shall have a clearer and more active role.’ 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish clear and national quality systems in healthcare through: the development of a national system for the documentation and visualisation of quality, learning and quality improvement with good national quality indicators that can be used for the management of the activity, following a model from Denmark that patient-experienced quality should be given equal weight to other quality indicators. Provision shall be made for specialist healthcare and caregivers to acquire knowledge of patients and their relatives' experience and use it in the quality improvement work. a selection of indicators of patient-experienced quality shall be published as a basis for patients’ choice of services to establish standard internal health care control systems. These must be based on experience from other risk areas, such as aviation, petroleum and food activities. the establishment of a number of medical quality records and a greater focus on better technological solutions that enhance the quality of the registers that all health establishments should be ISO certified by 2013.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work towards the establishment of a safety-focused and learning culture in healthcare through: health care develops guidelines on how to meet patients and their relatives after adverse events. It is also necessary to provide guidance on how health professionals involved are to be cared for. that patients/patients are given the status of a party to the supervision cases dealt with by the Health Authority and thus have the right to appeal to the decisions of the Health Authority that the police are sufficiently competent to investigate matters concerning adverse health incidents that the request for the assessment of an offence shall also concern system failures. The health service is required to inform patients/patients about what has happened, why it has happened, and what is done to prevent something similar from happening again. that the notification under the Special Health Service Act § 3-3 is to go to the State Health Authority before they proceed to the National Knowledge Centre for anonymised health services that a notification system for deviations in the community health service is established that the interpretation of the obligation of professional secrecy does not prevent learning processes in the ambulance service.» The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4570	During the debate Per Arne Olsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the medically recommended time limit for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer be made the lead within 20 days for the determination of the individual medically-determined time limit, in order to give patients a legal right to treatment by that deadline.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to provide an overall investment need for medical devices in hospitals, at the latest in the context of the 2013 government budget.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4590	The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4608	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the requirements for a police record for employees in enterprises offering VTA are provided with legal support in the labour market law.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the requirement for a police record valid for established employment.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes in order to introduce a requirement for five years’ residence in Norway for persons who have not lived in the EEA territory.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4658	The Progress Party has announced that it will subsidize the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4669	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4679	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4715	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4725	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4733	During the debate, Mr Røe Isaksen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the submission of a case of social benefits and social benefits in the context of action participation, where the individual benefit has also been assessed, during 2012.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4748	The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4765	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3 and 4, from Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party, There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes so that municipalities cannot shorten their parents’ social assistance when they have children under 18 who live at home and who have their own income below the tax free income limit.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to turn municipal social assistance into a state responsibility under Nav and for the introduction of norms similar across the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4799	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary legislative proposals to introduce a legal requirement for the obligation of activity for the individual social welfare beneficiary.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4821	Alternatively, between the I and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes so that municipalities cannot shorten their parents’ social assistance when they have children under 18 who live at home and who have their own income below the tax free income limit.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4848	The right has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The party of progress is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4915	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for improvements to the Youth Housing Saving Scheme [[BSU]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4942	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to the Stortinget for changes in the rules of tax law that result in the effective possibility for spouses who actually live in two different places to obtain tax housing in two different municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4972	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian Party, and the Left, saying, ‘Document 8:23 S [[2011-2012]] The President assumes that the Progress Party will now subsidize the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e4994	During the debate, Mr Kambe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to use the scientific definition of mineral material for the collection of the mineral oil tax, so that the environmental fuel GTL does not charge this charge.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-01.ana.ud2619e5058	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
