ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e123	The representative of Morten Höglund, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. From the meeting of the alternate of the Eastfold County, Erlend Wiborg, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinge from 17 December until 19 December under the leave of the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, for reasons of well-being. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the Eastfold County, Monica Carmen Gåsvatn, are proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Monica Carmen Gåsvatn is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e148	The representative, Jørund Rytman, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e151	I have, on behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Kenneth Svendsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, the pleasure of submitting a proposal for a representative to remove the excise value tax on services provided during the leisure time of self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e156	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 13.45 for The Storting's Christmas ounce. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 16:00 and continues until today's map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e174	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Mr Skovholt Gitmark, who is the rapporteur on the matter. Peter Skovholt Gitmark is not here. It is then said that the representative Eva Kristin Hansen in this case will have the first post. That's what the representative, Hansen, needs to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e185	In the absence of the rapporteur, I get kicked to act as a sort of case rapporteur here. The draft document 8 we have for debate here today is about setting a maximum limit on the proportion of the budget of aid organisations that can be financed by the State and that several independent studies are to be carried out on the impact of the Norwegian funding model. Both proposals are annexed to the minutes. I intend to explain a little why the Workers' Party will not support these proposals, despite the fact that I am now operating as a sort of case rapporteur. One proposal by the representatives of the Progress Party is that they believe that an excessive public share of the funding to the aid organisations leads to their more passiveness, that they will focus their activities on government policies, and that they do not dare to be corrective to the government. First, there has never been a limit on the proportion of organisations' budgets that can be financed by government funds. On the other hand, there has been a limit on how much of the individual aid activities of the organisations that the State can finance. It has varied since it was introduced in 1962 at 50 p.m., and is today at 90 p.m. The reason why a claim was made is that it is important that organisations demonstrate commitment and popular anchoring by making self-help, as the Minister of Development writes in a letter to the Committee. I agree. But what is proposed by the representatives is to have a maximum limit of 50 pst. the proportion of the budget of the organisations that may be financed by the State. It's something completely different. This is justified, inter alia, by: increasing competition between aid organisations to attract project funding leads to better and more effective assistance. I don't think that's what matters if the aid becomes more effective. I think, on the contrary, that a bigger self after getting external sponsors can make them less effective in what they're actually going to do. I believe that what is important for aid organisations is that they are adequately supported so that they can operate high-quality activities and projects. Experience shows that they're actually very good at it. Those who receive support do an enormously important job in many places around the world, and they should have praise for it. I agree with the proposers that it is important that the organisations are independent. It is important that they have a clear voice in the development debate, regardless of what any sitting government may think. My impression and my experience is that it is, that the organisations believe exactly what they want and are a corrective to the government's policy. It's not always as funny. During the years I have been in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I have been at several hearings, among others. on the budget. It's not like there's always a storming cheer over the proposals the government has, or the priorities the majority makes. We've been criticized for too little effort on education, too little on children, too little on health, to mention something. I disagree with that criticism, but that's fine. It is good that the organisations have strong opinions, but then it is wrong to give the impression that they are opposed to government policy. My experience is the very opposite. My experience is that they make independent priorities and are independent. I believe that the prerequisite for organisations to have a strong voice and be a corrective one is that they have a financial framework to do the job they are going to do. That is why I do not want to see the kind of requirements that the proposers want. With regard to the proposal to have several independent studies for the financing of aid, government parties request that the government assess a study on the financing of Norwegian civil society assistance and that such a study should have an international perspective. We believe that because there is a wide variation between funding models internationally, and it is important to take these into account. In summary, from the Workers' Party's side, we disagree with the 50 pst requirement, and we want a study to be evaluated with an international perspective. That is why we propose that the motion for a resolution No 8 be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e206	Norwegian u-help started in the 1950s. NORAD was established in 1962, about 50 years ago. Since then, Norway has granted nearly 550 billion. kr in u-help, measured in 2012-krona. The world's donor country, mainly the Western world, totaled 851 billion in 2010. NOK in u-help. It goes without saying that the interest in these huge budget lines is great. Unhelpful money is not given away to the poor in developing countries. They are used for projects, contracts and not least for international organisations and non-governmental organisations of different kinds. For these organisations, there is little to cover wages for an ever-increasing number of employees in the international aid industry. At a conference here in Oslo last week, Norad's results report was presented. One of the conference speakers, Nancy Birdsall from the Center for Global Development, could report that the number of NGOs in the world has now passed 60,000. 60,000 organisations, supported to varying degrees from one or more federal funds in the Western world, are engaged in development work in the world's poorest country. Norway does not support all of these, but must have support, for each organisation shall have its Secretary-General, its Board of Directors, its accounting officer, its auditor and its office premises in a suitable Western capital. We have to be able to establish that there are now no non-governmental organisations that are lacking. It's good for people to get involved, and many of these organizations are doing a great job. But it also says that it is very tempting to start an organisation that has some noble purpose, as much indicates that the government money is pretty loose. The 1 pst. target in Norwegian u-help reinforces this, since the government's very main target in terms of u-help is to spend at least 30 billion. kr per year. Voluntary organisations shall be based on enthusiasm and commitment. Many of them are skilled in collecting money, but the speech of the figures shows that in eight of the ten organisations receiving the most Norwegian state aid, State aid exceeds 50 pst. of the revenue. In two organisations, State aid exceeds 80 pst. Norwegian voluntary assistance organisations shall continue to use state support in their efforts to improve the world. Also, it is not very shy of the state whether the organisations are given the opportunity to receive one state crown for each krona they get themselves, as the Progress Party has proposed. I think Norwegian U-help would be better if the volunteer organizations were based more on volunteering than it is today. In this way, it would also be possible to increase the overall contribution to Norwegian aid when private and public sources are seen together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e221	I am very pleased with the interest shown by the Committee in discussing the part of Norwegian aid channelled through the Norwegian non-governmental organisations. This has been an important part of Norwegian aid for many years, not least at the level of the commitment that exists around the country by people who stand up locally to connect, gain experience, share experiences and learn from people in developing countries, bring knowledge to Norway, but also share the knowledge we have, and the experience we have in Norway. Therefore, a great deal of our assistance – and that of non-governmental organisations – has been aimed at forming partnerships. There's a lot of people doing around the entire Norwegian country. The Norwegian social model has a high degree of grassroots activity. This is also the case in the case of assistance. In fact, it is the private initiative that is the basis of all our current assistance – whether it was mission organisations or trade unions that cooperated with sister organisations in remote countries. State involvement has arrived later on. However, there has also been a lead in what kind of geographical and thematic area the Norwegian aid has been concentrated on. What is interesting, and which is one of the things we often discuss in the development budget, is just how many countries we operate in. But the reason we are in many countries is that grassroots organisations in Norway, non-governmental organisations, have started work in countries like Madagascar, Nepal, Uruguay and other countries in the world, where people who have shown an initiative to support – and link ties and partnerships with – developing countries. I am therefore concerned that we should continue to see this voluntary effort as a positive and important element of the development policy we are now pursuing. On the other hand, there is a demand for a level of – and some discussion about – the proportion of people involved, and there is a question that can absolutely be discussed. State support gives organisations the freedom of action and the ability to make their own and independent priorities. The proposed document 8 gives the impression of raising the issue of whether there is a high level of government support, giving too much governance to the priorities of organisations. I think this is a discussion that we have to nuance. In some areas, organisations are pure providers of services to us when there is a need to provide help. It is in a way that when we say that we need someone who can help support during the work in, for example. An emergency situation – whether in the Philippines, Cuba or Haiti – puts up the organisations and says, "We can do the job." In such a situation, there is no mention of independence. Then it's about some of the organisations doing a job. But the second discussion is: is it the case that the Norwegian priorities govern and ensure that organisations are not involved in conflict-filled areas, as is stated in the comments to the Committee? There I'm going to answer an absolute no, because if we see where the organizations are inside, it's in a good many countries where public channels, the UN organization zones, are having trouble getting involved. One of the areas we've talked a lot about is education. There we just see that organisations like Save Children and others are in and can provide education, because we lack the public channels and the ability to operate in a different way. But when I hear Peter N. Myhr's comments, I realize that this discussion is not really about a desire for maximum independence for the organizations. I perceive that Peter N. Myhre in his post is more questioning the honesty of the motivation of the organisations, that they are primarily concerned with milling their own cake by employing Secretary-General and others – and being wage-earners. That's what I think is a wrong approach, because I believe that civil society in Norway is doing a good job today. I would like to underline one more thing. It's an idea that if those who are good at assistance had just become even better and spent a lot more of their time collecting more money from the Norwegian people, we would have gotten better help. I think it's turning things around in my head. I think we have to let the aid organisations do a job with what they're good at, to cultivate what they're good at, that's to do good help, instead of turning them into effective collection organisations, as it almost seems like Peter N. Myhre wants more, because then I think we lose – in Norwegian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e241	Thank you to the Minister for Aid for an interesting point of view on this issue. The Committee's opinion states that the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, which is the opposition parties, considers that a study of independence, achievement and effectiveness of the work of the opposition would be important. Will the government follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e248	I have noted the comments made by the majority of the committee and the comments made by the majority of the parties to the Stortinget in this matter. I'll consider following it up through independent studies. But I think it is very important then that we make sure to see this in an international perspective, where we look at the Norwegian experience against experience from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e253	I can essentially join in what the Council of State said on this important topic, and it should be made clear from the statement that the Christian People's Party does not support this attack on the voluntary sector's aid efforts. It has been historically important, as the Council of State pointed out, but it is also very important today – in combination with the competence and quality that these organisations can provide, and the self-value that they have, that the voluntary sector can mobilise support for Norwegian aid. However, it is a point that self-financing should in some cases be higher. I want to ask the Council of State if he wants to look at the possibilities that the Department and Norad can more closely match gifts that are given privately, as has been done in the past, and so on. the UK Government has done a great deal in terms of both larger and smaller contributions to the work of organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e262	Today, we have tax-deductible schemes for giving gifts, in order to increase the share given in gifts to different non-governmental organisations. So I think – without messing up too many things – that the proportion that should be in projects should depend on the type of projects and really not on the gifts that are given. But it's clear that an organisation that will be able to deal with a larger proportion of it could also be able to deal with larger projects. In this way, I think this is well taken care of already today. But it is possible that I misunderstood the representative Høybråten.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e267	I would like to clarify the question further. The British government has established what they call the Matching Fund, which is there to attract more resources from the private sector, and then from private business to a large extent, towards aid and development projects. It functions in such a way that gifts given on certain criteria, and above a certain level, are immediately doubled by funds from the UK development budget. I would ask the Council of State to look at that scheme and see if there is anything we can do in Norway to increase the share of private investment in development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e275	I'm going to look at the scheme they have in the United Kingdom. I promise the representative Højbråten to do that. But when these kinds of gifts go into the organisations' projects, it'll just be possible to match the means of assistance if it's a qualitatively good project, and that's what the organisations also want to support. In this way, the possibility already exists today within the arrangements that we have. It is also the case that we put up with the assistance money and we like to match it privately. For example, in connection with the family planning meeting in London this summer, where Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation set up with money, we set up with more money. But I would like to stress that these priorities were in line with the agreed assistance priorities of the Storting. I want to be a little skeptical about going into a system that is automatic, so if someone says that I want to give priority to this, the state will set up with the corresponding money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e284	The Council of State and the deputy rapporteur emphasise that there is experience and the impression that these organisations are still very independent in the way they operate. There are some Norwegian researchers who have gone more into this. Terje Tvedt says: ‘The institutions and the State have become politically united in a growing number of areas, resulting in a weakening of pluralism, democracy, openness and control.’ Professor Øyvind Østerud says that ‘Norwegian aid and engagement policy is a firm policy of interest for all involved.’ And Asle Toje says, ‘Economic resources have not necessarily been allocated to organisations with the greatest public support, but to those organisations closest to the government’s priorities.’ Is it true that all these researchers are completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e305	It is very important that the representative brings forward some of these researchers, because these are researchers that are being funded, among other things. through research funds, provided through the development budget. It is certainly not the case that it is possible to accuse us of not pursuing a policy in which we facilitate a breakup in the field of development. I think that all kinds of recordings are important for the debate on the independence of organisations, and whether we have an aid and development policy that works. I believe that solidarity works. I believe that the broad research that is there shows that what we are doing is also working well. So the Progress Party promotes a proposal in which they say very clearly that they believe that this, that is. greater self-propellation requirements, more ‘fundraising’ by organisations, are those that contribute to strengthening independence. I do not agree with that, and I believe that independence is good as it is. But I consider, as I said, the follow-up of the majority of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e314	In my first post, I was concerned with the fact that the number of organisations in the world involved in development is now increasing at an explosive rate. 60,000 organisations worldwide mean that we have seen something beyond a five-year double. All these organisations shall have their secretariats, their bureaucrats, their commercial employees, and there is a lot of money in an organisational bureaucracy since the number of organisations is so large, and since there are also organisations that have other organisations as their members. That way, the money flows fairly freely within this system. Does the Minister for Assistance see developments here as positive – that the number of organisations is increasing by tens of thousands over shorter periods – or can it now be time to put an end to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e321	I have the basic view that non-governmental organisations, civil society organisations, are a good thing in Norway. It contributes to the development of democracy, and it is also a good thing in other countries. A work done by the Norwegian side is systematically helping to build civil society organisations in the rest of the world, because we believe it will strengthen democracy. Many other countries have not had the tradition of broad civil society organisations because there have been countries that have been more authoritarian. The development of more democracies in the world has also helped create a space for civil society organisations. We're part of these organizations to back up below. I have no faith that this leads to more bureaucracy. I think that leads to more democracy. I hope Peter N. Myhre agrees that we should be for that. Otherwise, this proposal is a strange proposal. There is no doubt that ‘fundraising’ and more work on ‘fundraising’ will significantly increase the assistance and cost of bureaucracy through assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e333	First of all, thank you very much to the Vice-President! Then I would say that we are lucky in Norway, which has a strong voluntary sector. We are lucky because a strong voluntary sector and a strong civil society make development policy better. And we're lucky because a strong civil society is involved in securing Norwegian democracy. We're going to protect that. To the right, the approach to development policy where we see public funds channelled must be the desire to meet our objectives. For the Right, it is permanent out of poverty, human rights and democracy, together with its own efficiency — that means how they are able to achieve our own objectives in the most cost-effective way possible, and in the best possible qualitative way. We have a number of both large and small non-governmental organisations operating in the development field in Norway. It's just positive, because it allows us to choose the organisations that hit the best. It's a self-esteem in itself, and it makes the projects that we're also involved in get better and not worse. I do not share the approach that only there are enough organisations, and the cost of operating the organisations automatically goes up. The whole idea of the volunteer is also that something that has not been paid in addition is to be provided. It's a core value that's close to the Right. So I would say that non-governmental organisations have an independence that state organizations never want. There is a problem related to how much of the revenue actually comes from the public. We have to dry up that debate. Because it's like an organization that's 100 pst. paid by the public, even if it defines itself as a voluntary organisation, is automatically a voluntary organisation? The right has not concluded, but we want an investigation on self-financing. I think everyone here in this Chamber agrees that it is positive that organisations have self-financing. But I share the majority's view that an absolute demand for self-financing is both unnatural and will have a number of negative consequences. I would particularly like to highlight the impact for organisations that are constantly spending most of their own time on ‘fund-raising’, and it will be seen that there will be other types of mechanisms underpinning there than in organisations that largely depend on other types of gifts. It doesn't have to mean that they're less effective, and it doesn't have to mean that they're going to be poorer organisations – but they're going to be different, and that's what we're going to have with us. Where I believe that the civil side stands together and becomes a driving force towards the government side, is in terms of what kind of incentives the public can have to put in place more gifts for volunteering in total – whether it is voluntary in development policy, whether it is research funds, or whether, for that matter, there are other types of collections within civil society. I think the British system is a good system, and a system that is worth looking at here. But there are other possibilities. Gift enhancement in general is a possibility, and tax deductions and increasing the tax deduction limits that already exist today are a possibility. We know well that the tax deduction system that came into place with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in government led to greater gifts for volunteering. As the Minister for Development also pointed out, a strong voluntary nature means a stronger democracy. I fully agree with that, and that is also why I believe that we can use positive arrangements, such as: gift-enhancing or tax-reduction, to make this field even stronger. For the sake of order: the right does not support the absolute requirement set out in this proposal. But we see absolutely the positive that lies in a strong, independent and qualitatively conscious voluntary sector also in the field of development. The field of development benefits from organisations that contribute, who wish to be there, promote their projects and compete for the funds for their projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e354	What remains after this debate is a big question mark: what does the Progress Party really think? Are they in favour, or are they against voluntary aid organisations? Are they for if there are few, but against if there are many? 60,000 were obviously too many, because they necessarily have to have someone to manage and make sure that what they're doing is qualitatively good. If they're going to spend more time collecting money, at least there's no fewer involved than development assistance. What does the concept of independence mean in this context? As Eva Kristin Hansen pointed out, there is no lack of disagreement and criticism of the government and the priorities of the majority of the population. Most people point out that there should be more to the area they're dealing with. But if you think with independence that you're going to do something other than what's in the priority areas like government and growth is pulling up, I'm going to report disagreement. It can't be a task for what you like to refer to as taxpayers' money, to finance something that's beyond what we agree on should be given priority. I believe that setting a specific requirement for 50 pst. will change the thinking around non-governmental organisations. Today, it is probably approx. 24 pst. of our funds channelled through non-governmental organisations, and they are primarily used as a channel out where public or multinational channels may function badly. It is an important criterion for using them, as well as engaging and, of course, triggering additional resources. But it's a strange remark that a majority is behind – that is. It is strange that the Progress Party is in it. The note states: ‘The majority support the proposal for a study of independence, efficiency and achievement.’ So far it is all right, but ‘especially with a view to increasing the low share of assistance channelled through the private sector’, it must mean that one wants to raise that proportion, and for the Progress Party there is a clear link with the budget they have presented, so that they can cut in that State’s contribution. This is in line with the basic policy of the Advance Party. But I think they have packed it into a lot of terms and reservations that make it a little demanding to get what they really mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e370	I find it a little strange to hear that you are criticising the fact that the aid organisations need to spend more time collecting money. Many of these civil organisations have just started with the intention of collecting money. This has been done in all years – back to the earliest missions. That's what was meant: spending time collecting money and channeling these further into the world where the needs were. What we are discussing today are non-governmental organisations. One of the things we're a little out of this proposal is that these organisations should be non-governmental, in the sense that they operate independently of state power and independently of the political interests of the rulers at all times. For these voluntary assistance organisations, it is not part of the state apparatus. They're part of civil society, and they're going to be due to an engagement with the Norwegian people. It's part of their purpose and purpose, and it's also their strength and challenge. This means that the idea is that these organisations should be largely based on voluntary gifts, as they have also been through history, and thus motivate and inspire the people to engage themselves, take off their own wallet and enter into it. We had a good example of that this weekend with the collection for SOS Children's Towns. What becomes problematic then is when a large part of the organisation's budget is financed by public funds. Here we can emphasize that when we say that you can have up to 50 pst, it's also quite generous. When you get up in 80-90 p.m., we get into a situation where these organizations become so heavily dependent on state support that it will probably be a problem with their independence. There are a number of researchers, both domestically and internationally, who have pointed out this problem. This means that organisations are more and more committed to what the authorities consider to be important at all times. Where the authorities are interested, these organisations know that the money will be easier to follow. Then it becomes more important for some of these organisations to keep in close contact with the authorities and to have good networks against the authorities than to have a good contact with the donors that you have. Assistance projects also tend to wander where there are political interests, and perhaps not where the needs of assistance are greatest. Then the problem of focusing on how much is given, and not what the results actually are, as Professor Terje Tvedt has pointed out. You build a kind of national identity where you focus on getting into 1 pst. And not on the effect of what is actually given.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e381	I notice that the representative Svein Roald Hansen just asked from this place questions about what the Progress Party really means. I have to say I'm a little in doubt about what I'm going to do in such a situation, because we've explained it quite thoroughly in the proposal for a representative. We have explained it even more thoroughly in the comments in the committee setting, and we have explained it in our articles here today. But what this boils down to in a nutshell is that if you increase the self-financing of those organisations, which we all want to continue to operate, there will be more money for assistance and unhelp – instead of organisations mainly being financed from the state budget as it is today. It is the motivation of the Progress Party to promote this proposal for a representative. Then I also notice that the majority parties and the Minister of Assistance are relatively little interested in the phenomenon we are now seeing – that the number of aid organisations is increasing at explosive speed. With 60,000 organisations and 60,000 secretaries-general, we have an army of secretaries-general who travel to conferences and organize activities. How much are they just going to cost? Is it 20 billion? kr a year? Thirty? Is it 40 billion? Do you really want to delete this It's hard to say, but the government should be more interested in this, so that we can get clear information on the table about where the aid money actually goes. The fact that they have been granted to a voluntary organisation does not necessarily mean that the money is granted to what we all in this room hope they will be spent on. I therefore demand a stronger commitment from the government on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e390	I think it's nice that Peter N. Myhre is confused by the confusion of Svein Roald Hansen. For what Svein Roald Hansen points out, it's just that there's a whole different argument in the vote, in the motion and here from the pulpit. Here you talk on the one hand about being very concerned with independence, and that is what is being proposed. This is what is most strongly argued for in the attitude of the Progress Party. Then, all of a sudden, you pull in efficiency, and then all of a sudden you pull in that the goal is to increase the overall amount of assistance and what is given from Norway. In addition, many organisations are involved in this. I thought I'd go quickly into the different elements. Let's start with aid efficiency. There is no doubt that if organisations have to spend more of their voluntary efforts and more of their administrative capacity to carry out collection activities, because they lose some of the public money, it becomes less effective. The Progress Party spends a lot of time saying that money should be allocated to road projects over the state budget rather than through toll systems around it, because it is so inefficient. There is no doubt that if you use the same logic or argument against voluntary organisations, it will mean that there will be less resources for organisations to do effective relief work, and more time will have to go to the collection of money. But then this is just an excuse, because in the real world we see what the Progress Party is doing in its budgets. What the Progress Party does in its budgets is to increase Norwegian aid by a quarter. And if you add the Norwegian aid with a quarter of the money, we know that what the Advance Party believes is that the money should not come from the state, but rather from the Norwegian people – collected by the Norwegian voluntary organisations using more of their time not to run with assistance, but rather to collect money from the Norwegian people. I believe that this speaks for itself. This speaks for itself. This is an unsolvable way of doing development work. I believe that what we have chosen to do is to split this together. Investing in Norwegian development aid is Community work, and we do it most effectively by granting much of the aid money over the State budget, rather than by collecting it through large collection organisations. So I just want to say that if there's something we're concerned about, it's efficiency -- that the aid money we're using is working. We are concerned that solidarity works. That is why we have put in place more measures to combat corruption. That is why we have increased transparency in the assistance. This is why we have put in place clear requirements for efficiency and re-priority between organisations. It's a work we'll continue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e406	I had not intended to extend this debate, but the post of the representative Peter N. Myhre made it necessary. The argument put forward by the Progress Party today is a distrust of the voluntary sector they say they will take a greater part of the responsibility for Norwegian aid. They produce it almost so that funds allocated to civil society over the Norwegian state budget go into a black hole where you don't know what you're getting. It's completely wrong. There are then as serious and thorough evaluations of what goes to civil society as that which goes to multilateral assistance. Yes, there is often more nine-time scrutiny of what goes to civil society in Norway than what goes to multilateral organisations, because we have other opportunities to follow up organisations in Norway. But what made me react most was the statement by Mr Myhre about what is the motivation of the Advancement Party. You have to listen to that. And if I didn't hear wrong – that would be clear by the crash report – then knowingly Mr. Myhre said that it was to get more money for Norwegian assistance that this proposal had been promoted. So it comes from a party that year in this room proposes to cut not only one billion, but one, two, three, four, five, six, seven billion. kr – by a quarter of the aid budget, and this proposal is justified by the need for more assistance. I'm not going to say anything but that it's not a believer. I hope it can pass in this hall. Otherwise, I would say that we use civil society because they can do things that the public can't do, because they can do things that multilateral organisations can't do. They can go into those parts of Somalia where no UN organisations work. They may enter vulnerable areas where there is no public infrastructure at all. They can go into areas in the Congo where you don't have any health care, if it hadn't been for mishaps and churches. It's just where no one else can do anything, that these organizations are at their best. And – they are effective! Many of them have wages that are a fraction of what you have in the United Nations or government organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e417	The representative Dagfinn Højbråten heard quite correctly. Peter N. Myhre said that this would give more money to assist. Yes, how does the representative Myhre know? What determines the level of assistance is primarily the state budget, and so the Party of Advances sees it really sloppy, as Højbrätten pointed out. If the budget of the Advance Party was committed, organisations shall raise 7 billion. kr to have the same level. Then it's just a reminder that this year's TV action occurred at 220 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e422	It's millions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e427	220 million. kr, please. So imagining through voluntary collection and requirements for 50 pst. financing shall compensate for a fraction of the Progress Party Cuts in the budget is a mere illusion. That is what is at the heart – or the real reason – of the Progress Party. They want more of the assistance to be provided on a voluntary basis and less to be done over the State budget. That is what is in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e432	Peter N. Myhre has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e435	I think it's a little strange that there's so much confusion around the proposal. What I'm saying is that if you get increased self-financing in the organizations, there'll be more money at your disposal. We can agree or disagree on the level of government appropriations, but increased self-financing will provide more money for aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e440	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e454	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e468	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e477	We are discussing the legal security of the taxpayer again today. There is an important debate, which we did not have so long ago in an inter-pell debate here in Stortinget – a little earlier in the fall – and in a representative proposal earlier in this period. In that proposal, the government was asked to come back to the Stortingen to assess the legal certainty of the taxpayer in a wider perspective. It was then mentioned in Prop. 1 for 2011–2012, and there was also a review of the administrative rules in the area of the tax haven — when it relates to taxes, employers’ taxes and value added tax. It shall cover issues such as the disclosure of taxable persons, the determination of control, the transparency of the parties and the recovery of costs. The objective of the review is to incorporate administrative rules into a separate tax administration law. The government has started to work on new laws, and in 2014 it will be sent out on a hearing. Given the fact that this work is in progress, the majority do not see the need for a separate review of the taxpayer's legal security. Of course, I agree that the legal certainty of the taxpayer is important for the conclusion of the tax system. The legal security of the administration is traditionally perceived as protecting individuals from abuses and arbitraryness by the authorities, and it should be possible to calculate the legal position beforehand and defend their legal interests. A fundamental requirement for the administration is that it should take decisions on the basis of a defence case. The legal security of individuals can therefore best be provided with trust-provoking administrative rules. The government also has two proposals as part of its efforts to strengthen the legal security of the taxpayer in the past. The only thing is to reduce the additional tax from 30 pst. to 15 pst. in the case where the taxpayer has provided the equality authorities with incorrect or incomplete information on the entries in self-notifications which are subsequently provided without employer or other third party being required. The rule that taxpayers may lose their right of appeal when they fail to comply with their obligation to provide information was simultaneously withdrawn. Both proposals are adopted. In the comments in the setting, the opposition also mentions that the same case handler re-examines the proposal. So I just have to refer to the guidelines. The Tax Directorate has given clear guidance that, as a general rule, there should be new cases dealing with each new step in the procedure. It follows from the guidelines that if complaints to the tax office relate to non-conformity during the process of the equation, there should always be a new case-law dealing with the complaint. Exceptions to this general rule can only be applicable in very large and complex cases where the change of the case will be inappropriate both in terms of resource use and in terms of time spent dealing with the case. Competence in the complaints is also mentioned. Clearly, it is important that the complainants have knowledge and competence so that they can perform the role of saying in their own and independent manner. Then you have to look at the requirements that are actually set. There are requirements for the competence of the members of the tax complaints. Two-thirds of the members referred to shall have formal education in the field of accounting, economics or law and professional experience covering at least one of these areas. The manager and the vice-leader in the name must meet the requirements for being a district court judge, cf. Paragraph 54 of the Law of the Court of Justice. The legal security of the taxpayer is an important area that the majority of the population takes seriously. I look forward to further work by the government on the revision of the tax and tax management legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e500	Studies show that a majority of Norwegians do not understand their own self-declaration. There have also been several studies in recent years that show that even the case handlers in the tax system do not fully understand the tax rules. For example, I remember very well when a few years ago, the NRK took some samples at some tax offices, and a surprising number of taxpayers gave the wrong answer to the tax questions of the journalist. It's thought-provoking, and it gives us a reminder that we have a complex tax system -- it's easy to make mistakes. After approx. seven and a half years in the Financial Committee, I no longer have figures on how many requests I have received because taxpayers feel that their legal certainty is impaired, and it is the tax rate that has made life worse for the taxpayer. This applies, for example: indebtedness situations, and of all creditors, private and public, it is the worst for public creditors. The fact that Norwegian tax rules and tax declarations may seem difficult does not apply only to personal taxpayers. There are enough examples of the fact that entrepreneurs and others who run businesses also have poor experience with the jungle of tax rules and the deadlines of the tax haven. There is little flexibility on the part of the tax haven, and it can have disastrous consequences. If you have made a few mistakes in the last month, there are short deadlines that apply, even when it is not your own fault, but wrong done by others – and even when there are errors in the tax bill. We in the Financial Committee have over several years, especially in consultations, been told by several teams that it is high time that the government presented a broad assessment of the legal certainty of taxpayers and measures to ensure better legal certainty for taxpayers than today. It is true that the Financial Committee has had several issues from the Government for consideration, where issues relating to the legal certainty of taxpayers are challenging, while work on a comprehensive review of the legal certainty of taxpayers is being carried out in a comprehensive and timely manner. I refer to a letter from the Minister of Finance that now suggests that the work on a tax administration law will be completed as late as 2014. The letter from the Minister of Finance of the Finance Committee on the matter suggests that the Minister of Finance sees a far less need for a review of the legal certainty of taxpayers than the Financial Committee has for several years considered. I think that's gross. In examining the proposal for a representative 17 S for 2010-2011 from the Progress Party on better legal certainty for taxpayers, the Stortinget decided that the government should return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with an assessment of the legal certainty of taxpayers in a wider perspective. In his letter to the Finance Committee during the examination, he revealed that he did not see the need, and in the 2012 State budget, it was shown that the government is in the process of reviewing certain areas, but without any indication of time other than time-consuming. I remember that in connection with the Storting for approx. Five years ago, a proposal from the Progress Party, Document 8:16 for 2007-2008 – promoted in 2007 – on improving the position of taxpayers in disputes and improving the situation of people with debt problems, found that the then Finance Minister would be working to improve the treatment of disadvantaged taxpayers by tax authorities. So this has taken a very long time. At the time, the size of the population did not see this work – as the Minister of Finance expressed it at the time – in strategic terms. In retrospect, the tax rate in the same year, i.e. in 2007, has been shown to establish a working group to assess how it could provide targeted guidance and assistance to taxpayers with a particular need for follow-up. The target group was taxpayers who, for various reasons, had come into a difficult life situation and were therefore unable to fulfil their obligations and exercise their rights. Following an evaluation of this work, it was decided that separate units should be established in each region, which was named Tax Aid. I think the Tax Aid should be given a little more attention. This is a unit intended to help taxpayers who are unable to meet their tax obligations or to discharge their rights to pay the right tax. Last night I went into the tax department, which I had then got new websites. I didn't see anything about the Tax Aid. If you apply for the ‘Tax Aid’ – but it is to be assumed that there are not so many who know about it – you will find it correct. I hope the Council of State today might be able to give some information about the work on Tax Aid, and about how to make it known to most people -- especially, of course, to those taxpayers who have problems. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e526	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e529	I think we should be very happy that we have a high tax morality in Norway. We all want to keep it. The question is what tools can be used in the service of good. I hope that we can all also agree that the vast majority of Norwegians want to adapt and want to abide by the laws and regulations. Most people are honest. That must be the basis for the debate. There'll always be someone on the side. It applies in this field as in all possible other areas. One should not be naive, but – once again – it is a question of which means to use to take the few who stay out of it. If you look at a common tax case to someone who's trying to be honest, there's no doubt that the state is the strong party. It applies in all such cases. Just being mentioned in a tax evasion case is very serious for most entrepreneurs – only the media focus will be quite destructive. In addition, a subsequent case and its follow-up — which will be treated in the tax system — will also be enormously resource-intensive. It takes all the focus from running the business. I think we might be confirming it. In the light of both the hearing we had two years ago — which was referred to by previous speakers — the reports of the National Audit Office and the debate in the media after this issue was raised a few to three years ago — I find that the satisfaction of both the majority and the Minister of Finance is really quite remarkable. The rapporteur referred to additional taxes. Then I can just refer to what Professor Zimmer says about additional taxes: ‘Additional taxes are penalties, and our system actually means that the penalty is enforced before the penalty is legally imposed.’ So we also have a challenge here. I suppose we should agree on that. This is not the only issue where we have challenges. This applies throughout, from the law down to the treatment in the tax haven. It is enough to point to the Riksrevision report on major discrimination, depending on the tax office in which the case is dealt with. And it's enough to refer to an article in the Financial Newspaper a while ago where you'd been subjected to Supreme Court rulings, which showed that there were huge differences in the outcome of judgment, depending on what kind of judgment you got. This has led some tax lawyers to have to look at their own tax courts for Norway, for example. Not on any of these questions have the proposers concluded, but it shows that we have a very great need to get a complete review of the whole issue. As I said, I am once again amazed at the self-satisfaction that remains with both the majority and the finance minister. For the questions, many, from the overall point of view, as I mentioned in the introduction, are: What tools can be used in the service of good? We have this with surplus information, where data opens up completely new issues. We have Prop. 141 L for 2011–2012 — discussed in the Committee — where there is no discussion whatsoever of what to do with surplus information. It was one of the very central parts of, among other things. the data storage directive and the debate we had then. It should also apply on the tax side. We have this with professional secrecy, we have this with third-party information – many questions that Stortinget has not dealt with, and where new technology offers completely different perspectives. There are also many low-hanging fruits, such as: proceedings. You can just make it so simple that you switch case handlers. We have this with the complaints topics – which were also mentioned by the case rapporteur – and the competence there. Do you have both the payment of those who are in the complaints and the competence that means that you can really get into the cases? We have this with the right to meet, to equalise the tax payer and the tax rate when it comes to it. I believe there are so many questions here that I find it quite remarkable that you are so self-satisfied, as it is today. But we will probably have a good opportunity to continue the debate on many of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e553	On the basis of the proposals, I read something we are all a few about: we in Norway have a well-functioning tax system. The Nordics have a high tax morale. Let me underline that this high trust in the system needs to be guaranteed and durable. Tax evasion has to be combative. The proposers then say that under the sitting government there are restrictions on business and private individuals – without regard to legal certainty. It's quite a claim. Single examples can create uncertainty if legal certainty is well documented in the practice of the regulatory framework in matters that have been dealt with. But there's something quite different than claiming that we as legislators have given laws and rules that do not emphasise the legal security of taxpayers. The Minister of Finance, in his letter to the Financial Committee, states the following: ‘In my opinion, both the current legislation and the tax haven practices ensure the safe treatment of taxpayers. However, there is always a need to look at the legislation and its practice in order to optimise the quality of the proceedings and legal certainty.» In the plural position of the Financial Committee, we point out that we have recently discussed measures to protect taxpayers' legal certainty in a number of circumstances. One of the measures, the review of the tax administration rules, has been launched in the Ministry of Finance. This work will make the properties more transparent and easier to use for tax collectors. The Minister of Finance shows in his letter that this is an extensive and time-consuming work, and that new tax administration laws cannot be expected to be sent to the public until 2014. We all want measures that we have decided to implement to be implemented quickly. But I think it's unreasonable for the Committee's minority to claim that when legal work takes time, it's because the government and the finance minister don't see the need to review a new law, get the focus on taxpayers' legal security that will result. The minority suggests that the Storting should ask the government to provide a broad assessment of the legal security of taxpayers and that it should also include measures to ensure better legal certainty than at present. The minority is probably aware that there is a large order, which will be time-consuming to execute. In the majority of its comments and in the Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee, reference is made to several measures implemented and to the extensive legislative work involved. So the minority's proposal will come along with what's already started. From its point of view, it is important to stress that the guarantee of the legal security of taxpayers should lead both to actions being implemented and to legal work being undertaken. It is central that this is reflected in the political process in the design of laws and regulations. It is also a requirement we make for the administration in implementation. So voting against the minority's proposal for a proper and comprehensive distribution of legal security is not about deprioritising legal security requirements in the administration at all. There are requirements that should be met all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e575	Some comments from the Left, since we are also part of the proposal for a representative. Most of the facts of the case have already been clarified, so I will stick to the overall point in this case. It surprises me – which I will come back to several times during the day – that the government and government parties are so strongly opposed to sensible and balanced opposition proposals. In particular, it concerns proposals that are not costly but are primarily about legal certainty and citizens' meetings with systems and bureaucracy, which are sometimes perceived as offensive. We are constantly hearing allegations that government parties will have a ‘fact-based policy’. It was last submitted by the Minister for Fisheries in a reply with me last Wednesday on the dumping of sludge in Norwegian fjords. The Minister for Fisheries then thought that there was a question that could not be settled before all the facts were on the table, and said: ‘I believe that in these kinds of questions — as in many other questions — professionalism and knowledge must be at the bottom.’ I agree, of course, with the Minister for Fisheries, but every time someone from the opposition proposes an investigation or a review of a policy area – yes, the government and government parties have all the necessary knowledge, or they have some work going on and believe that the system as it is is perfect. If someone experiences something else, it's them with something wrong, not the system. In fact, I agree with Gunnar Gundersen's representative when he says that there is a self-righteousness here, which I would strongly warn against. However, the legal certainty of citizens is a fundamental right to protect the Left. Why government and government parties do not want to guarantee taxpayers better legal certainty than today, is a mystery to me, and it has not become any less after listening to the debate until now. It is to hope that the Minister of Finance can make something more concrete than what he writes in the letter to the Committee. Let me do a little example. The Minister of Finance illustratively writes in the letter to the Committee: ‘Where there are obvious errors in the equation treatment or obvious and material errors in the tax settlement, taxpayers will not be obliged to pay a clearly wrongly determined residual tax. The general rule is that outstanding tax claims are to be recovered as soon as possible, but once the claim is filed, no more extensive collection than is necessary shall be carried out.’;» The question is: who determines whether there are ‘obvious’ errors in the tax settlement and who determines whether the collection is within the definition ‘more extensive than necessary’? The answer to both questions is the tax rate. In reality, the ordinary citizen has little he should have said, and feels powerless when a large estate, as we have unfortunately seen too many examples of, exhibits very little flexibility and discretion. In conclusion, I and the Left believe that it would have been a strength both for the Storting and for the Minister of Finance if we together could have been so honest as to say that here it is an improvement potential, and that therefore we have decided to stand together to improve legal certainty for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e600	This is an important debate. We have had several debates on the subject, not long ago in the context of an interpellation by the representative Fleet on tax topics. So this is the theme that concerns me, and it's important that the theme captures the Storting. I've also noticed that we probably have the same goal, but that we're on our way to the goal we're going to reach, maybe we have a little bit of different assessments. In my opinion, the legal certainty of taxpayers is consistently well maintained today, but there will always be room for improvement. This means that the Minister of Finance is not ‘self-satisfied’. I am well pleased, but I am not satisfied, in the sense that there will always be room for improvement. I think it's important that we stay there. Then I have notified in the past that we are running a larger project within the tax administration rules. In other words, we are in the process of doing the work requested in the draft document. It is a follow-up to a previous Document 8 proposal, Document 8:17 S for 2010–2011. The majority of the financial committee then asked the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with an assessment of the legal certainty of taxpayers in a wider context. It is a challenge that legislation related to tax management is fragmented and uncoordinated. That is why we are going through the administrative rules in the field of taxation with a view to coordinating and harmonising them. I believe that administrative rules should be brought together in a separate tax administration law. It will make regulation more transparent, easier to use both for taxpayers and for the tax rate, thus strengthening the legal certainty of taxpayers. It is important that such an approach allows fundamental principles of legal certainty to be addressed across different types of taxation. A comprehensive and timely review of the legal certainty process is essential. This work is in progress, but, as I have said before, such a major legislative transformation will necessarily take some time to implement. My goal is that the proposal for a new Tax Administration Act should be submitted to consultation by 2014, but as soon as possible, a good consultation draft can be put in place. This review will also include a review of the rules of appeal and the tax management system. The point of the complaints is that we should be able to make a real review of the Tax Office's decision both in terms of the assessment of evidence and in terms of the application of justice. It is important that the denominators have good knowledge and competence and that they can exercise their role freely and independently. For my part, it is important that the assessment of the denominator is also done in a thorough and good way. Then it is mentioned by the case rapporteur that the fact that we now have a great deal of work to do with a new tax administration law, which is what we are aiming for, does not prevent us from doing some and sensible things in the field of legal security in parallel. In other words, we are engaged in the broad review of the tax administration and various aspects of tax treatment, and an important objective of this is point 1, simplification, and point 2, the legal certainty of the individual taxpayer. So I actually think that one here could be a little bit more satisfied with the job that is actually going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e620	We have noted the work of a new tax administration law, and the Minister of Finance points out that today's rules and laws are divided and not coordinated, and that there is a great need for work there. I agree. But I have never heard that the Minister of Finance has said that the work being done with the Tax Administration Act will also take the overall picture. Much of the background to the proposal is that there are some overall challenges here that we believe need a completely different lighting in the light of developments in society. So I am also asking the Minister of Finance today whether the mandate underpinning the work done with the Tax Administration Act now is that we should start with the overall issues in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e628	There are some general principles that are important in tax matters. One is that it should be as simple as possible for us to have a simple tax system, which is easy to deal with both for personal taxpayers and for traders. In fact, in the case of traders, the Norwegian tax system is given a good example in international contexts. The second is that the tax system should be effective, that one should be able to obtain the funds to enter the Community in a good and effective way. Another general principle is good governance that ensures legal certainty for individual taxpayers. Such things are very central to the review that we are now going to do. So the representative also mentioned Gundersen's new technology and stuff. Yeah, that's part of it. The tax base is, in fact, very advanced in putting new technologies into practice, but it is also necessary to be aware of the issues that this raises, for example. in relation to professional secrecy and profit information, as referred to in the post of representative Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e635	I requested in my article some more information about this unit Tax Aid, which has also been discussed here in Stortinget in the past, and which I am pleased to have – as far as I have registered – increased resources. I again challenge the Council of State whether he can tell a little more about the work further, and why, in my opinion, the Tax Aid is a little hidden away, for example. on the tax haven's web pages. You have to look for a long time to figure out this unit, which, on the contrary, maybe should be one of the first things to see when you get into the tax haven's website. That's one thing. Another thing is -- at least it's my experience of it -- that many of those who need help, like to be of the older garden and may not be online. How do you imagine reaching out to the taxpayers who are not like us and use the Internet?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e642	I agree with Mr Rytman that the fact that the tax rate should be good for tax guidance and advice is quite fundamental. There is an important tool in this way. If it is that there is not a separate button on the website of the tax bill, I will make sure that there comes a separate button to the Tax Aid. Of course, I have to take the reservation that there may be some technical or other complications. But it seems reasonable that there is a separate link to the Tax Aid on the website. Otherwise, it's a challenge that of course it's part of the taxpayers that's not online, and we also have to try to reach them in a good way. But otherwise, it's a good rule that those of us who are good, and like, for example, have parents who are not on the network to assist in tax matters and tax returns. But it's more on a voluntary basis. We have to make sure that the tax rate has good websites, for example, and the button has to be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e651	Yes, then we can see that the Stortinget has already had an impact on its own button!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e654	Just very briefly: what does the Minister of Finance think would be the negative consequences if the Stortinge were to vote in favour of the proposal by the minority today? Will there be any negative consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e659	What the minority is asking for is a broad review, and I think we are actually doing a good job of the broad review of the work we are now doing on a new tax administration law. I believe that starting a new, big job in addition to that could actually help delay the whole case. The important thing now is that I do what I can to ensure that this work is done both in a good way and as quickly as possible. I hope that I get support for this from the minority in the case. I believe that the job we are now doing well is an answer to the question that the minority has raised in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e666	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e680	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that four lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e689	If it were allowed to cross the roof, maybe we should, but that would be a shame, because the roof is great as it is. For this is a matter of taxes on wealth which is widely agreed in the Committee. The background to the case has been some media appeals about young victims who have to pay property taxes on the money they have received from insurance companies. Here, there is a discrimination between what is paid under the non-life insurance law and what is paid after insurance, and the Minister of Finance has assured the Committee that he does not think it is well justified. So proposal No. 2 the Committee agrees that it has actually been implemented. The exciting thing is if the Minister of Finance continues to insist that the change will apply from 1 January 2012. Then we start to get a bad time. He has promised to promote a bill or a consultation note by the end of the year, so I hope that it is almost clear in the department, because at least I have not registered that it has come out. Then there's also a question of disability. There we will maintain our proposal to upgrade down to 15 pst. - not like today, 50 pst. – the tax on wealth must also be exempted. But we note that the Minister of Finance does not reject that proposal either. He will investigate it, and then he will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a proposal there as well. Then I don't think it is necessary to say so much more about this matter. But I want to promote the suggestions that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e702	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has addressed the two proposals he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e705	Sometimes a little general scepticism is expressed in terms of policy-making on the basis of individual matters, because as politicians, we need to be able to have a principle approach to what we do, and have a general perspective on things. But sometimes individual cases, individual cases, can help to illustrate the results of the legislation that we have, which is obviously unreasonable. The proposal for a document 8 which we are discussing today comes on the basis of several cases of this kind. The proposers themselves refer to the case of the severely burned child in Troms, who has received unpaid compensation to make it possible for him to live as normal as possible. That such compensation should trigger claims for property taxes, I think it is probably contrary to what they all, most of us feel as fair and as reasonable. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance was early out there and assured that the law will be amended, so that this child and other children in similar situations will not be charged with property taxes. As the rapporteur himself said, there is no good reason why there is no equal treatment between compensation paid under the Compensation Act, which has less tax rules, and amounts paid out from insurance schemes. It is good that the Minister of Finance assures that these changes will apply from the 2012 income year. The rapporteur referred to the vote on the proposal to reduce the requirement of a 50 pst degree. to 15 pst. There was a draft consultation by the Ministry of Finance on Friday, i.e. just a few days ago, at which it is proposed that the requirement for a degree of inadequacy be removed altogether. It is therefore a proposal contained in the draft consultation which goes beyond the wishes of the proposers in its document 8. We'll see what the hearing bodies say about it, but I think it's a sensible approach to this problem. There is a simplification of legislation if the requirement is removed completely, and there is also a rule that is strictly unnecessary. If compensation has been paid so high that it initially triggers a claim for property tax, there is by definition a serious damage. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance here has shown the will and the ability to clean up quickly when we see that our legislation has a verdict that we do not like. It's not always politicians either need to put down samples or to investigate if we see that the results are obviously unfair. Here we have demonstrated the will and ability to do something about it, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e721	Like the two previous speakers, I am satisfied and satisfied with the signals I hear from this pulpit that there will now be a change in the legislation. But let me remind you a little bit about the back cover for the debate, for this matter was also up for a few years ago. At the same time, a draft representative was signed, Document No. 8:83 for 2008-2009, which was dealt with at the Innst. S. No 291 for 2008–2009, which was treated in spring 2009. At the time, the big debate in this house was that it was thought that age was no reason to pay taxes on wealth. So you couldn't exempt people from the property tax because of their age. I think over the years we've gone, we've got the debate on the right track, because this isn't about age. It's about people who've been through an accident or suffered an injury, for example. by the fact that an operation in a hospital has been carried out incorrectly, which has resulted in a large compensation — or, as the last case we read about in the VG early this autumn, a fall accident in a kindergarten. So this is an accident, an injury or an operation error that has caused a life-long decrease in functional efficiency. In that case, it makes sense for funds which are not available to you, but which are available to the Supreme Authority, to be exempt from taxes on wealth. That the government parties now agree with the Progress Party and the other opposition that this should be sorted out and sorted out quickly, I am pleased with that. One can always discuss how quickly it has gone, given that it is almost four years since we have been promoting the matter for the first time. It was also the time of the announcement from this pulpit that we would see new examples, and that we were going to re-examine the matter. Unfortunately, we saw new examples, and unfortunately the matter had to be brought up again for Stortingen, before we were able to bring about these reasonable changes. I want to say something – although it is a little on the side of the matter, it goes into the same complexity – that I hope the Minister of Finance can take with him and discuss with the Minister of Knowledge. Many of these children have become disabled, disabled, and have received a great deal of compensation, which is to be used to rebuild the dwelling, so that you can get in with stairlifts, so that you can get a home that is adapted to your disability. They are today by definition, because they have this paid out, not entitled to, among other things. grants under the Student Loan Scheme. I think that's also a bit of a shame, given that we also need people with reduced working and function skills in the future. Then it is important that we also have a coordination on the educational side that enables these people to take training in a good way and get out of work without having to pay their own training of the compensation sum, which is actually going to equipment, tools and accommodation adaptations, precisely because of the reduced functional capacity. I'm glad there's going to be changes. I have understood from the government's representative that there has already been a consultation note – it will certainly be able to be confirmed by the Minister of Finance from the Chair – and that a short consultation period has also been set. I hope that in early 2013, we will have a case with concrete proposals for legislative changes presented to the Stortinget. With regard to our proposal No. 2, I recommend and ask that you also remove the requirement for disability. I hope that the outcome will be when you come back to the Grand Duchy with concrete proposals for legislative changes, and that you not only send it out to the hearing, so to speak, to withdraw it and bring something else when the proposals for legislative changes are promoted for the Grand Duchy, because it is also an important proposal to bring with it. I am therefore addressing the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party, unless the representative Gundersen has already done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e738	As I have stated on a number of occasions, I believe that the rules we have today, for no good reason, to use that expression, make a difference between different types of benefits that children and young people have received as a result of serious personal injury. Today, the rules distinguish between those who are on the one hand compensated by the Law on Compensation for Damage, where there is a liable indemnity, and, on the other hand, insurance payments in the event of personal injury and death under a personal insurance contract. Today, only compensation measured in accordance with the compensation rules is subject to the more restrictive tax rules and that means that payments from accident and sickness insurance are not covered by the rules. I think this is a discrimination that we're going to do something about. That is also the background to the fact that I have carried out a review of these rules in the autumn, and that last Friday, 14 December, I sent out consultation proposals, in which I propose that the one-off payment of accident insurance, sickness insurance and disability insurance to persons under the age of 21 be exempted from property tax in the event of personal injury. The same applies to accident insurance or insurance in case of death to survivors under the age of 21. As I said, I see no reason to discriminate between the two cases. Furthermore, we also propose in the consultation note that compensation under the Professional Indemnity Insurance Act and compensation for personal injury and loss of dependants under foreign claims should be exempt from property taxes. I mean, a child like that. are injured on holiday abroad, should be treated in the same way as a child injured in Norway. The question of tax exemption is raised by the fact that damage has resulted in at least 15 pst. a reduction in the ability to acquire. It was travelled by the representatives of Gundersen and Eriksson. I do not believe that it is necessary to require a minimum degree of inadequacy in the law in order for the property tax exemption to apply. That is why, in the consultation note, we propose that this requirement be lifted, which actually goes beyond the proposal made in the draft document and which the minority have also joined in the vote. So I would like to add that today, children who have been compensated for personal injury or loss of dependants under the Compensation Act can be compared specifically to the amount of compensation and the return on this. In particular, an equation ensures that the child receives his or her own free amount in the event of a property tax equation and a personal deduction from the income tax equation. In the consultation note, the Ministry suggests that the right to a separate equation of children shall apply to all benefits which shall also be exempt from taxes on wealth. With regard to the part of the proposal for a representative linked to the assets managed by the Superpowers, I would like to say the following: With this solution, the exemption will be limited to persons under 18 and to assets over a certain size. In my view, that is not the best way to avoid the discrimination that arises from today's rules. I believe that this can be better achieved by extending the tax exemption within the framework of the tax law already in force. The deadline for the proposals I have now sent to the hearing is 25 January. That means that a proposition will be promoted in the spring session. If the Storting will, and the majority of the Storting join the proposals we make, this matter will probably have found a happy solution during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e759	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e773	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that four lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e782	The proposal that we are going to discuss here is whether those who are paid monthly cards by their employer should not be taxed by it. The majority suggest that this is not accepted. It is a central point of an effective tax system that taxable profit corresponds to actual income. This means that all economic benefits from employers to employees should in principle be taken into account. The minimum deduction is a deduction that is automatically given in employee income and pension income as compensation for expenses that a person has to acquire, hedge or maintain taxable earnings or pension income. Expenditure related to travel to and from work must be seen as being covered by the minimum deduction. Tax deductions for certain specialities involve the favouring of employees who have employers who are willing to provide such services. I would also say that it may have adverse distribution effects. In addition, it could be seen as unfair that workers who themselves cover the public transport between home and work have to avoid the tax of the part of wages that agrees to pay it, while those who receive it from employers. I also think that one has to ask the question: Who is it that gets this covered by employers? One might not have any statistics on it, but at least I can imagine that it's not the store added or help caregiver who's going to get this benefit. There are examples of tax exemptions for certain types of specialities, but in the light of administrative considerations where the market value may be variable and difficult to calculate. We do not see that this applies to employer-funded monthly cards. An exemption will result in a sample surface which must initially be covered. When we know that those who will mainly benefit from this exemption are those who are already actually using public transport, I think we can assume that the proceeds can be used in a more efficient way to stimulate people to travel collectively. If you look at the setting, the Right and Christian People's Party are some with us in a lot. There are some differences in the comments, and they want to attach the document to the protocol instead of rejecting the proposal, but I appreciate it very much and I agree very much with much of what the Right Party and the Christian People's Party write in their comments. So I just have to say in the end: think of all those who could have enjoyed reducing the price of collective travel, the unemployed, the disabled, etc. None of them would benefit from such a proposal. That, I actually think, is a good reason to reject the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e801	The Progress Party has put forward a good proposal that will have many effects, but not least it will have the effect that very many in this Chamber here also demand, namely how to get better traffic flows into and out of our big and smaller cities in the rush hour, and how to get rid of the queues that make it a lot of pollution, that makes people lose time, and that makes business queues, that just between Oslo and Asker have a cost of over 1 billion. kr per year. Then you are still looking for solutions. The government is very happy every time it can come up with a solution that involves more tolls, parking bans or parking charges on private property. Then it all of a sudden makes sense to try to do something about this problem. But when the Progress Party and the Left come up with a positive instrument that the government itself has estimated will have formidable effects, then it is all of a sudden enviable that someone can get a tax relief – when it comes to solving a problem that everyone thinks should be solved. Once upon a time, people who work often go to work once between 7 and 9 in the morning, and they go home between 3 and 5. That's why it makes sense to look at instruments that go at exactly those times when it's rush time, and then it has to go to those who are workers, who actually have to travel at that time, not those who don't have a job, or who are retired, who thus have more flexibility in their schedule of work. The government has estimated that if you give tax exemptions for collective cards paid by the employer, approximately 175 000 of current travellers make use of the scheme. 175,000 of those who are driving a car today would therefore become a public passenger. It is true that this means a tax loss for the government of about 1.8 B.C.E. kr. But on the positive side, there would be an increase in the income of the public corporations of 2.1 billion. kr. Then you have included that one also gives tax relief to those who already drive collectively, and who thus do not become net users. So you get an increased income for the public corporations that are larger than what you give in tax relief. Collective means of transport are being turned into 175,000 drivers today, not because they are being taxed through increased parking fees or increased tolls, but because they choose to do so themselves. So it's optional if you want to make use of it, and we're assuming that a lot of people will. It's true that there will probably be people who don't use it. There may also be some places in the country where it is not interesting to have it, simply because there is no rush-time problem there, or that the collective offer is not attractive to the individual. But that doesn't mean that this is a bad suggestion, because most of the users of it are likely to be in those areas where there is a cannabis-time challenge. This has thus contributed to a significant improvement in the problem. I think we should consider that. It is true that it is not certain that people will get this on 1 January 2013 – if it had been introduced. But on the next payroll, where very many people experience getting NOK 10 000 to NOK 15 000 in higher pay, this could be part of the package. Instead of getting NOK 10,000 in cash, which you would normally have taxed, you would have received a collective card, which is probably a lot of places worth NOK 10,000, or a little bit less. What is the benefit for the employee of saying yes to it? It is that you will also receive NOK 2 800 in tax relief, which you would not get if you received the cash. That's why it's interesting for people. You start to look at this with envy, and that it's not everyone who would get this. There is nothing to prevent a shopkeeper from negotiating this with his employer. I see no reason why an employer should say no to such an employee's wish, because it does not cost the employer one extra kroner. This is going to be a very subduing argument. I remember the reaction of the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Helga Pedersen, when we discussed this for the first time in the hiking hall last autumn. Then the answer was, no, this was typical tax relief for the richest. You know -- I don't think Trygve Hegnar had used this offer, no matter how many times he got it printed up in his face. He's got too good a car. He would rather imagine that others used it. The government says you can assume that the rich will do it, but this will be an offer that will benefit ordinary people. Many people will take advantage of it, and this will enable business to transport their goods much cheaper around because their cars do not queue. I think it's sad when this government automatically resorts to such resistance as they do here, without going into what this actually means and without taking their own estimates seriously, but using what I perceive as substituting arguments. I am very pleased that the Left supports the proposal. I am also very pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Right have some positive views on it, although they do not support it in this round. But a new government can solve today's traffic challenges in a far more flexible way than today's government does. I take this up with the proposal of the Progress Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e822	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e825	I just want to make a few additional comments on what the rapporteur and others have said earlier in the debate. We believe that the monthly card and the cost of getting to work have already been incorporated into the minimum deduction, so giving tax exemptions for an employer-funded monthly card will be a very powerful tool, as it will in many ways provide a double tax advantage. As we put it in a note, it can be an instrument that you want to use once in the future, but at least you have to make sure that there is capacity in public transport and that regularity is such that most people can use it. Our main comment on the proposal is that we feel today that resources should be used to improve capacity and improve the quality of the offer before using such powerful instruments to stimulate further use. The case rapporteur also stated that there was a small error in the setting. The right and Christian People's Party stands for the non-adoption of the proposal. But we have a separate proposal that it should be annexed to the Minutes. So at least for the Minutes, I would like to say that we should not have accepted the majority's proposal, but that we have a separate proposal that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. I am promoting that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e836	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e839	Initially, I would like to comment on something that should clearly be a visit to the Left: disadvantaged, pupils and pensioners will enjoy the monthly card proposal, precisely because the offer through increased revenues to the collective societies will be better for everyone. This is a very big challenge in Oslo and Akershus per day – I think of Router. The left wants to actively use the tax system in the service of the environment. We've long arranged for a green tax shift. In short, it means that there is less tax on income, investment and ownership in Norwegian jobs and more tax on environmentally hostile behaviour. This is a goal shared by many, but it usually fails when it comes to action. It is only the Left who is actually proposing a green tax shift. In our alternative budget for 2013, we're proposing such a shift, where we're re-prioritizing about 9 billion. kr. It's particularly hard to understand what and where the government and government parties will. For example, in a line change with those signed in the financial debate, Chairman of the Financial Committee, Torgeir Mikelsen, as follows: ‘I share the view of the representative Trends and the Left that we can contribute even more to a green tax exchange where we stimulate environmentally friendly behaviour, but then we also have to dry down a price for the polluter to pay. But I probably don't share the view of the representative Tendens and the Left that very much of this is to be done within the tax system as well." So you agree to a green tax change, but you won't do it within the tax system. My question is, how do you do that? The left wants very much that this should be done right within the tax system. We believe that more tax systems can benefit from environmental differentiation, and we need to be able to use the tax system not only to punish environmentally hostile behaviour but also to reward environmentally friendly behaviour and actions that will obviously be important to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. The proposal we are now considering is such, and it is in line with the priorities of the Left in our alternative state budget for next year. - So all the honor of the Advance Party for it! The left believes it is very, very good that we can use the tax system in such a way that more people choose to travel collectively rather than using private cars to and from work. Then, of course, you can argue that this is unfair because it is an offer not everyone will get. This is in isolation, but at the same time it can also be argued that the monthly card paid by employers can be used as a substitute for the usual increase in salary in future wage negotiations and that it will be a socially sound solution. In addition, it has a positive side effect by generating about 2 billion. NOK in increased income for the collective societies – which I was at the beginning. The proposers also point out that it is a paradox that today tax subsidies are actually being paid to have an employer-paid parking space for a private car. This is not included as part of the income base – that is, the opposite of the green tax system that the Left wants. I have read SV's proposal for a new deposit selection program with interest for the next period. It says on page 12 that SV will work for tax exemptions for collective cards given by the employer – a slight paracox all the time it seems to be State Secretary Roger Schjerva of SV who has signed the letter to the finance committee and who then in cash rejects this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e859	Initially, I would like to say that a general approach should be careful to introduce new deduction schemes into the tax system, whether there are tax exemptions on monthly cards, tax exemptions or tax deductions on training or much more that we have dealt with in the context of Document 8 proposals. The general rule is that the benefit you gain from work is taxable income. This is an important principle of the tax system. It means – as I have also pointed out in my written reply to the Committee – that an effective tax system requires that the tax liability corresponds to actual income. This means that all the economic benefits of the employer should in principle be included in the payroll tax obligation, and then to what we can call market value. Tax exemptions for certain special benefits favour employers' employees who are willing to provide such benefits. As has been demonstrated by the rapporteur, this may have adverse effects on distribution. It also means that tax savings will increase in line with the taxpayer’s marginal tax. So my view is that both because there are unfortunate distribution effects associated with such a proposal and not least because it is part of undermining the tax foundation, exceptions to the general rule on the taxation of pay benefits must be very well justified. In my view, the fact that a benefit provided by the employer is in itself supportive of desirable behaviour is not a sufficient justification. Of course, assessing and discussing measures to promote public transport is positive, but a so-called neutral income tax system can not only build the difference between good and less good societal purposes. There are also many other ways of stimulating public transport. I would also like to remind you that the tax reform of both 1992 and 2006 is based on an important principle of the tax system: a broad tax base and relatively low tax rates. Of course, I agree with the proposal put forward here by the majority of the committee. I believe it is important that an attempt to maintain the principle that the benefit gained from work should be taxed, and that one also takes into account the assessment of the distribution effects such a proposal might have. I would also like to draw attention to the increased number that is said to be using public transport if one introduces such a tax deduction. In an answer I've given to Left's big group on that question, I say that we have discretionally reasoned that 10 pst. several may use public transport as a result of such a proposal. But this isn't an exact number that you can use and say that this is it, it's a discretionary estimate to explain what it can lead to. There may be more, but there may be fewer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e879	This is a bit of a strange experience, because after having been involved in energy and climate policy for six and a half years in the Energy and Environment Committee, I always felt that this government and really everyone on the Storting said that the environmental and climate challenges require one to do anything. One has started a project in Mongstad without knowing the price of it. I guess the price tag is now up to 6 billion. kr, because it is important to cut CO2 emissions. It's the most important overall goal of all. Then we have an instrument here that of those who vote against it, is called a powerful instrument. Well, the right thing to do is to call it a highly discretionary instrument, but this is in any case an instrument that can deliver great results. If it's 12 pst., 8. pst., yeah, if it just becomes 5 pst., it's a much stronger goal achievement than what one can achieve on any of the other. One has allowed people to buy electric cars without charges because it is so important to cut CO2 emissions. Does the government now suddenly feel that there is no need for powerful instruments to cut cows and CO2 emissions in the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e896	There is a need to use both strong and less powerful instruments to cut CO2 emissions in major cities. One is the reference in the case of electric cars; the other is the conversion in the case of the purchase of new cars that reduce CO2 emissions. Other actions that can be discussed are actions that the community itself has and that they have the opportunity to discuss: different types of tolls or different other means of using, for example: driving zones or driving bans on days of severe pollution. The point in this case is that here a person wants to use a fiscal instrument, which, in my view as well as in the majority's view, is covered by what is currently provided by minimum deductions and which also has adverse distribution effects. So I reject this proposal primarily for tax reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e907	It was not so surprising that the Minister of Finance did not approve of this proposal, so I shall leave the proposal as such. In the last few days, a new green tax commission has been called upon to do so, because it is believed that the government does not have a good enough grasp of the tools needed, including: to ensure that the agreed climate agreement we have from this room can be implemented and that we are cut domestically. My question then becomes more general: Does the Council of State think that the government has a complete and good grip on taxes and taxes in the environmental context, and that is in line with the expectations of many, to the agreement we have entered into jointly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e916	First of all, I don't think there's a need to put down a new green tax commission. I think we have a pretty good overview of the different measures that could have an impact on the tax side, for example. what I just referred to in the previous line exchange, and what you are doing now is changing the one-off charge, where you have a very clear measure of how much emissions you are going to aim at from new cars. The CO2 tax is a useful and good tool, but I think there may be a need to facilitate a broader discussion about this. These are things that relate primarily to cars and car-related charges. It has been handled by the Finance Committee, and we have a race that has good forward stations to be able to take that debate in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e924	In the letter to the Financial Committee, the Minister of Finance states that an exemption from the tax liability of an employer paid monthly card will: «withhold a sample surface, which may need to be covered by an increase in other taxes». That's absolutely right, and that's left-wing agreement. In fact, we have taken the consequences of this in our alternative budget, where we increase the flight charges accordingly. We do that because we know that it is from air traffic the largest emissions of greenhouse gases are coming. My question to the Minister of Finance is: why does the Minister of Finance not want to do the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e936	As we have quite rightly referred to, I write in the letter to the left-hand largest group that if one assumes an average monthly price of NOK 12000 per year and multiplys by the number, this could lead to a sample surface of SEK 1.96 billion. kr. According to the tax promise, it is to be covered by an increase in other taxes and taxes. If a theoretical view had gone to the step of saying yes to this proposal, one would of course have had to make proposals to increase other taxes and taxes. I didn't intend to suggest any direction on it on the standing foot, but the technique is that reduced taxes in one area lead to increased taxes in other areas. Then we have a fairly wide menu to choose from, for example. environmental taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e941	I have to admit that I can't quite get hold of the logic here. In all environmental and climate debates, one has said that one is willing to use quite large sums and set in motion a lot of measures to cut CO2 emissions to reduce urban pollution. One of the strongest tools you could have chosen is to let people who drive a private car still do it, but make it free of charge by not paying tolls, parking, buying a car at no charge to the state, and even getting free fuel at most of the charging stations that this government has set up. But if people instead want to take the bus, then they won't get any stimulus, because this is added to the minimum deduction. The same argument could be strictly applied to electric cars and anything else, that this is in the minimum deduction. The point is that everyone gets the minimum subtraction anyway. So you don't get any extra incentives if you choose public transport. That's what we're trying to get here. Does the Council not see that we should treat public transport and electric cars in a non-discriminatory manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e949	In the case of the electric car tax regime, there is widespread disintegration in the Stortinget. There, the Financial Committee and a large majority in the United Kingdom have said what it will be like in the future. The Minister of Finance relates to the majority who have given electric cars these different benefits compared to other cars. It has two purposes. One is to establish a market for electric cars. The other thing is, of course, getting people who drive the most in town to buy an electric car instead of a car that emits CO2. So it has a clear environmental approach. So it's that the minimum subtraction is pretty big. I believe that it takes into account some of the expenses that people have in order to get income. Moreover, the tax system provides that expenditure on the acquisition of income is initially deductible, possibly after accounting, but most people use the minimum deduction, because it is most effective both for the tax system and for the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e959	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e962	I am actually taking the floor to reply to the representative Borghild Tenden's reference that there is a proposal in the SV's new programme for the next major period that tax exemptions should be granted to those who are paid collective tickets by the employer, as proposed here. It is true that there is such a proposal for treatment at the SV national meeting in spring, but it has not been adopted, and it will probably be discussed. The elements that have been raised in this debate today will also apply to the proposal to be dealt with in SV. It is quite right, as has been said by both the case rapporteur, the Council of State and others, that it has a positive side, but it also has a backside, and that is how the distribution effects of such a tax exemption will work. This is paid by the employer and tax exemptions are paid and the element in the proposal is also caught by the minimum deduction. I was not that long ago in a debate with the employer's organisation Akte. They had focused on obtaining tax exemptions for paid training cards at the training centre from the employer. The same argument and the same issue will apply for that type of purpose — and for all other good purposes, if we are to address the principle. It has some positive aspects, but it also has a side in terms of distribution effects in fiscal policy. That is SV very concerned about – perhaps not as much on the left, I have registered in the debates we have had this autumn. So then the conclusion is that if you want to strengthen the collective offer, especially in the big cities – in a region like the Oslo region – you need to expand it and make people use it more in the future, you need to expand the infrastructure. It is necessary to invest in the development of the railways, the development of infrastructure around public transport, and to have a policy to reduce the cost of using public transport. It is the main means of strengthening and improving the use of collective provision. Then you cannot always be looking for proposals that contribute to tax relief. For tax revenues are needed in order to expand public transport, not least in terms of the size of the capital region. It's about billions in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e971	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The next speaker is Geir-Ketil Olsen – sorry, wrong name. The President regrets a mix of the names of these two speakers – Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e976	We're both part of the Olsen family, but it's probably very, very far out – and at least politically. I'm a little concerned about this with distributional effects, which you're pushing in front of you here. The fear that rich people will get a thousand more tax dollars than people who only have ordinary income and don't pay top taxes is why we can't participate in such a proposal, many say. Where is SV then when discussing the distribution effects instead of increasing toll rates around cities? It will actually hit the poor, by getting more money than they would otherwise have. If some cookie at Oslo West uses this, does his Jaguar put in the garage and actually take the T-Bahn to work, is it a crisis for Norway? Is this a crisis for the poor in the country? They're not gonna lose it. On the contrary, we get the effect that the rich, those with the least sensitivity in terms of being affected by increased toll rates and parking charges, nevertheless choose to travel collectively, thus making a grip that helps to reduce the waste time problem and CO2 emissions. I thought SV was concerned about that. Where is the fear of the distribution effect when parking charges are to be imposed in these workplaces? It will seem just as unreasonable, because the poor will get relatively less to walk with than the rich. The rich have more than enough surplus, they tackle increased toll rates and increased parking fees. It is the poor, who must give priority already, that will be most affected by this. I'm also concerned with distribution effects, but pushing it in front of me in this example here, I think it's a complete failure. So they're the ones that have the most in the wallet from before, who run the most to work. They can afford to pay what it costs, whether the tolls around Oslo are 20 kroner, 30 kroner or 50 kroner. Trygve Hegnar has said that if you run up the toll rates around Oslo, he will be alone on the roads at the end. What if we do it as SV fears, so that Trygve Hegnar thinks this is actually so interesting that he wants to travel collectively? No, horror and horror, it must have been horrible. Think to see Trygve Hangs on the trick. I think it would have been really great. What you see here is that we need more money to expand public transport. We need that. This proposal, with the government's discretion, would have given 2.1 billion. kr more for public transport each year than is currently granted by the government. 2.1 B.C.E. kr would allow capacity to be built up. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has said that capacity needs to be built up before the scheme enters into force. That's why we proposed 900 million. kr in appropriations for public limited liability companies for the first half of the year, and then this scheme will start to give them another 1 billion. kr in sales income on the monthly cards. This could be achieved if you had dared to view tax relief as reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e995	Of course, I agree with the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen that more money must be spent on infrastructure in and around the big cities. That is why the Left also does it in its alternative budget – not just the grip we talked about a while ago. We've turned off our own big village pot. Let's use 1 billion. kr more to railway than government parties do. We're increasing the reward scheme more than the government party is doing. We also want the state to contribute more to the expensive track solutions in and around the big cities, so here are a number of things done. But this matter is about how to get more people to travel, and how to get cheaper trips. We could have done that with this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1002	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1016	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that four lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Borghild Tenden, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur for the matter, Inge Hallgeir Solli.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1027	We are now considering a proposal from the representatives of big business, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Bård Hoksrud on the tax treatment of professional driving and the demarcation of benefits from private use. Both the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left support the proposal for a representative – with a small exception, to which I will come back. The parties to the Government are voting against the proposal. I expect them to explain their own resistance, and I therefore concentrate on the minority's view in the rest of my article. The proposal to clarify the rules concerning the tax treatment of professional driving and the taxation of benefits of private use is, in reality, a concrete and exemplification of the case we discussed earlier today in order to strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers. Unfortunately, the government and government parties reject the proposal. The argumentation is the common: the system is perfect. If the taxpayer has a problem, it is because he has not obtained the available information and got well enough into the rules. It's not the system there's something wrong with. Well, in this specific case, there is a problem with the system – or the rules. The system is based on mistrust of the taxpayer, and everyone will exploit or erode the legislation if no strict interpretation is used. It's e.g. insufficient basis for not imposing taxes that the employer confirms that the employee is not allowed to use the car in question for private purposes if the employer does not have a full overview of where the car is at all times. It goes without saying that there is not a single employer who has such a control. A mandatory use of the electronic driving book could of course solve this ‘problem’, but where I share the finance minister’s view and the majority’s view that it has a fundamental data protection challenge that is not desirable. This is also not part of the minority's proposal. Furthermore, it is strange to read Equation ABC about what should be taken into account by the authorities when assessing the degree of probability of whether the tax payer uses a professional car in private. For example, it should be assumed that Norwegian families with children have two cars. If you have only one, you should almost take it for granted that a professional car is used privately. The same applies to the number of driving licences in the household. If there is more driving licences than one, it must be assumed that there is a need for more cars, and that a professional car is used privately, even if the taxpayer claims the opposite, and even if the employer supports this claim, but not 100 pst. can prove that these are the facts. I will in no way claim that today's legislation in this area is particularly suitable for ensuring the legal certainty of taxpayers. Therefore, there is a need to clean up and clarify the legislation. It is incomprehensible to me – and I guess I am wondering the other opposition parties share – why the government parties cannot agree to clarify how the rules relating to the tax treatment of professional driving and any private benefits should be understood. It is a proposal that does not cost anything, it will simplify both the tax authorities, the employer and the employee, and it will be easier for each individual citizen to act in a law-abiding manner. It's possible I'm having a hard time, but I just don't get it. Instead, government parties have doubts about a regulatory framework that it is almost impossible to comply with today’s interpretation and understanding. In this way, I look forward to the fact that either representatives of the government parties or the finance minister himself from this interlocutory can clarify how the concept of ‘small suitable’ for private use should be understood. Finally, a little bit of detail. The minority does not go further with the proposal made in the original proposal for a representative to make the legislation more widely known. That's not where the shoe presses. The law is available enough, it's just extremely difficult to understand. Therefore, there is a need for clarification, cleanup and clarification. That is what we are proposing, and that is what the majority is voting against. On behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I address the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1046	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1049	In fact, handling a professional car for tax purposes is quite complicated. You have to make sure that the tax base is as accurate as possible, and at the same time ensure that people are not taxed unreasonably if it is actually such that you do not use the professional car for private purposes beyond strictly sporadic. In 2005, the system was very simplified. It was actually the Bondevik II government's initiative. It was to ease the administration not only for tax authorities but also for taxpayers. The old regime was too many almost a little nightmare with track books and mileage calculations. That is why we now have a regulatory framework based on a template that should reflect, as far as possible, the private advantage of using the employer's car in private, without it being entirely impossible to adhere to administrative requirements. I'll refer you a little bit from our comments. It's about choices, it's about obligations, and it's about privacy. Firstly, through today's legislation, we have the possibility to choose between administrative and practical simple rules for company cars and the more administratively demanding, but at the same time more modest rules for professional cars. Then you will have a balance between resource use and ensuring the most accurate calculation of the tax base. So to it with duty: Now the case-speaker – or she who spoke on behalf of the case-speaker – said that they had taken away that part of the proposal, but they write anyway that there is a little known regulation. Then I have to say that an employer and employee have an obligation to become familiar with the legislation that actually exists. Tax authorities also have a duty to provide guidance. It is very important that it is followed up. There is also an electronic runbook. We are very concerned about privacy, and are therefore very careful to write that we want to introduce something like that. The majority would like to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1062	After reading the answer from the Minister of Finance to the Committee, I see that this is going to be difficult, because we have the perfect system. The light in the tunnel is in the case that the Council of State does not rule out that it may be possible to look at the legislation in a long, long time. Many companies have cars at their disposal in connection with work carried out, but rules on when the benefit-taxation of the use is unclear, confusing and, in addition, little known. Although I hear the representative from the Workers' Party say that it is an obligation to get into this, I think there are a few of the taxpayers who have read the thick, red book most of us have in the office. The proposals promoted are aimed at establishing a new and better code of conduct for professional driving and border crossing for private use, so as to facilitate compliance with the rules. So-called professional driving is driving in connection with the work, but not even from the job or private use for the rest. Occupational driving is initially not taxable, as opposed to normal company cars by which the worker is freely disposed — even privately — and subject to a benefit tax. If the worker uses the car of the workplace in private affairs more than occasional, the benefit would trigger the tax liability. The advantage is then calculated as if there is a company car employed by the employee. Many are not aware of this and are presented for a large, unforeseen tax bill. The standard rules for the taxation of benefits are conditioned by the fact that the car has actually been used. The fact that it is access that the tax authorities assess can lead to taxes being taxed even if you have not used the car but have access to it. One of the problems is the use of the driving book. This is not mandatory, but if you do not have a driver's book and have bookkeeping, you are making a slight contribution. In the past, a practical barrier has been the management of the driving book, which is resource-intensive. However, electronic driving books have recently been placed on the market to facilitate the task. A possible solution to the problem could be that the use of a professional car for work travel cannot be taxed more than the actual proven use through the roadbook at a kilometre rate. This may be possible. combined with regulatory requirements for the driving book, so as to avoid situations where tax payers have an impossible situation of evidence against tax authorities. However, such use of coercion is initially skeptical to the proposers, but should be further considered. The progress party wants primarily to reduce the tax burden on company cars and car use, but realises that this is difficult to achieve with today's political situation. Therefore, the proposers want to see if it is possible to improve today’s legislation without large progeny tops, which can make it easier for business to move properly. I believe that the rules – as they are today – are difficult to deal with, especially with situations where there are uncertainties about where borders go. Much also suggests that parts of the legislation should be made clearer, but with clear boundaries, for example. how much you can do before you are taxed. It should be assessed whether the equality authorities should have an information responsibility to ensure that businesses and taxpayers become aware of those rules, which are, by far, not well known, and whether tax authorities should be subject to penalties and additional charges until the legislation is better known. It is problematic that ‘sporadic use’ is not better defined and quantified, if appropriate, but based on judgement. The car you have fixed, you have more than occasional access to, so the use of this car will result in full benefit tax even if the extent of the use is minimal. There are only a few of the tax collectors who are aware that the authorisation of occasional use requires the use of a different car from that of the person in possession of the profession. The few understand the logic of this, and the rules are allegedly also practiced differently by the tax authorities. In practice, there is virtually a requirement for a driving book, even if this is not formal. With a requirement for a driving book, the rules would make it easier to deal with users and easier to control by the tax authorities. It would also remove many ambiguities and judgements. If you do not want to introduce directives, the legislation can be designed to provide clear advantages for the driver's book that, if the driver's book is used, the taxable person may not be taxed for more than the actual driving distance multiplied by the kilometre rate. There is also a requirement that the car should not be suitable for private use in order to be able to tax actual driving between home and permanent work. The definition of the concept of ‘little suitable’ is unclear and is practised differently depending on the control officer. This shows that there is a significant need to correct these imbalances. I therefore take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1092	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1095	The provisions in force are based on the assumption that taxable persons who actually use the employer’s car in private should be taxed for that purpose. The reason why we have such general rules is that if one were to deal with the individual case, it would be unusually resource-intensive to implement such a tax. That is why there are detailed rules and guidelines for taxing the use of the employer's car for what we might call two dominant type cases. We have rules on car taxation, which are relatively simple, and we have rules that are about a professional car. There may be legitimate reasons why employees should dispose of the employer’s car in a way that would normally trigger company car taxation, but that it could be, for example, emergency situations in which a person considers this to be the use of a professional car. I agree with the proposer that there are borderlines here, but one has chosen to let the ‘fine mechanics’ give way to more diabolical rules. I see that there may be a need to look at this, and I can to some extent be willing to do that, but I think it's hard to figure out rules that could be perceived as 100 pst. millimeter-corrected. In order to avoid a hollow out of the general rules on the taxation of templates while avoiding the need to carry out an administratively demanding individual valuation, it is important that the specific rules applicable to professional cars have a sufficiently clear delimitation of the area in which they are to operate. But, as I said, it is not appropriate to regulate conditions in detail. This would lead to a much larger, more comprehensive and more unintended legislation. Therefore, a person must accept that there is some degree of discretion within this image. Finally, let me just link some comments to what has been mentioned regarding the driving book. The minority wants to introduce incentives for the use of the driving book. Today it is the case that the legislation that is already there provides incentives for this by making it easier to predict how the car has actually been used. However, it is not enough that the driving book is kept for all driving; this book must also be able to reconcile with an overview of the tasks that the company has had at all times. It's also important to clarify which part of the drive is actually profitable, and then we're inside the more complicated purely tax return. The question of the employee's privacy if the use of the car is to be recorded continuously and stored electronically raises some issues. However, I believe that further incentives can be considered if the parties to the employment relationship can agree on an appropriate system of so-called electronic driving book. In my view, the best available means of better predictability are still to be employed on guidance, and employers and taxpayers make use of the possibility of clarifying any uncertainty with tax authorities in this area. As in so many other areas, it is important that tax authorities be transparent in providing good guidance both to taxpayers and workers to avoid the greatest possible doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1111	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1114	The positive thing about the intervention of the Council of State was that he went further than the members of the Finance Committee did in the Committee, and what they do in the Storting, where everything is rejected and voted down. It's very good to have the top head of the tax rate here. When you read the answer letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Committee, it's not very clear reading. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘However, the rules and the level of stencils are based on a pre-requisite of a certain extent of private use.’ I think it's interesting both for us as big-time representatives, and not least for the taxpayers who are in this position, that we here in this room from the highest team now get defined: what is 'a certain extent'?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1127	I don't think it's possible for the finance minister or anyone else to answer 100 pst. exactly what is ‘a certain extent’. It was so far in my post that if there is a wish for it, I will be willing to look at it again. But I do not want to suggest any major, revolutionary new discoveries, because this is all about an assessment of how far to go in the direction of a detailed regulation – something that the representative Svendsen is less enthusiastic about – and about cases that in many contexts will be seen as something 'necessary'. It is about finding the good balance – having clear and good rules that are at the same time clear to those who want to practice the legislation. It is difficult, especially in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1132	I see, like the previous replicant, that the Minister of Finance was reasonably balanced in his comment. A good job was done, to put it that way, by the Bondevik II administration to clean up the legislation here. But it is also so complicated, and it involves so many people, that it will always be subject to a great deal of interest in what the legislation is like and how it is practised. Most people should also be aware that they are entering a small minefield when they have to dispose of the employer's car. It is clear that there is a great deal of discretion when using terms such as ‘sporadian use’ and ‘smallly suitable for private use’. The question is whether the Minister of Finance will follow up his signals by simply reviewing whether it is possible to define this a little more clearly. Among other things, this is the case. done in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1141	As the representative Gundersen says, different finance ministers have tried to clarify this legislation. When I think about it, I actually had some issues of this kind on the table also in the 1990s. It shows that it's hard to design this down to the last detail, so I hope there's some understanding that it's almost impossible. If you have the aim to try it out, there will be a wide range of remarkableness, and there will be a wide range of doubts. There should therefore be a high degree of stencils, as individual treatment and a clear definition are difficult. To the extent that I have no objection to going back into the chronicles and see if there is anything that has been assessed by various governments along the way – whether it is possible to fine-tune it any more. But I can't promise anything, because I think my former colleagues will also admit that it is very difficult to draw such clear lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1148	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1164	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. The President will also propose that four lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1173	This may be the smallest case in which the Finance Committee has dealt with during this large-scale period, but it has also been the best process. The government parties have gone from pettyness in very many political matters to actually supporting a proposal for a representative with content that is objectively good, even though at the time it was promoted it was not seen that way by the government. As rapporteur of the case, it has been a pleasure to run the process. We have been given an expanded presidency progress plan and have now come here instead of earlier, which was the plan, we have had good cooperation between the parties in the committee, and so we have a unanimous committee on a matter which is not a matter of whether the matter should be annexed to the Minutes or one, but which actually has political substance. However, as we write in the case, it is a relatively small matter. It is a proposal to introduce a one-off tax reduction on imports of second-hand cars between 15 and 30 years, so it is not the right case, but too many of them at least mean something. In the case of registration of vehicles imported used, a deduction is currently made from the levy, based on the age of the vehicle. The deduction is intended to reflect the average impairment of similar vehicles on the Norwegian used car market. Then comes a little more complicated things, as is common in a legislation on cars: the rules for setting a one-off registration fee for imported used vehicles were amended with effect from 1 May 2007. The change consisted in the addition of the percentage deduction system with the possibility to request alternative charging calculation based on an individual assessment of the impairment of the individual vehicle. This is a system created by the Transport Economic Institute as far back as 1994. After this model some vehicles have received a higher charge than the used value actually is. A lot of people have thought about it, and now the Finance Committee is open to see how to get a fairer system. The Ministry had already, either in the course of the process or at the same time, entrusted the Transport Economic Institute with the task of creating new rules, but the mandate given by the government did not include what the proposal for a representative included, namely the impairment of cars over the age of 15. The Council of State writes to the Committee to tell them how small the matter is — but important for them — that in 2011 311 cars between 15 and 30 years of age were imported. Of these, approx. a third fixed the one-off fee after the alternative charging calculation. The Committee is generally concerned with simplification measures for consumers and businesses and for the State itself. A charging model set up by the proposals of the Progress Party will increase the predictability of all parties and contribute to the overall simplification process, without any appreciable proceeds in one direction or another for the State. With this, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee on Finance. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1188	The President says thank you in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1191	When recording vehicles imported used, a deduction is made from the charge based on the age of the vehicle. The deduction increases at increasing age up to 15 years, but for cars over 15 years of age and under 30 years of age the rate is paid. Cars over 30 are considered veteran cars. The proposers wish to reduce the one-off import fee for second-hand cars, which are 15 and 30 years old. In the Labour Party, we think this is a good proposal. The deductions shall in principle reflect the average impairment of an equivalent vehicle on the Norwegian used car market. Today’s system hits relatively well for newer cars, but less well for older ones. Variations in value reduction due to wear, technical condition and other factors are greater for older vehicles. There is a real reason to go through the use-nets to get a good match with real value-reduction – it can be a fairer way to do it. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kambe, and the rest of the Committee for contributing to a unanimous vote. The size would today require the government to change the general use deduction, so that there would be a tax reduction of the one-off charge for imports of second-hand cars between 15 and 30 years old. Now it's not about petty things in those cases where we don't agree – it's about voting for what we're for, and against what we're against. But anyway, I think this is going to be a positive decision – perhaps most of all for car enthusiasts – that I am pleased that the committee managed to agree on. There is reason to believe that the government will send such a proposal at the hearing in the New Year. I look forward to the government following up the vote and the debate in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1202	Thank you to the President-in-Office, and thank you to the Red-Green parties who once voted in favour of a progress party proposal while it is still in the Chamber, instead of bringing it as their own one, two or five years later. This is a small matter, but it's very joyful – both those who are happy in the cars can enjoy themselves, and it's also a simplification of the legislation. As has been said by the two previous speakers, it is today that you import a car that is between 15 and 30 years old, you have to initially answer 20 pst. of the one-off charge on it. There are very few who do it. They wait until the car is 30 years old and they get it free of charge – one pays VAT and parcel, but not a one-off fee. One could pay the fee that one was supposed to pay, and was refunded a bit of it if a calculation committee considered that the car was not worth as much as you had paid in charge. It would have been heavy, and that's why it almost hasn't been people who have imported cars between 15 and 30 years. This issue can also be interesting when we look back on it in a few years' time, and we would like to see dynamic effects in tax policy – this will be a good example of it. What's nice for the enthusiast environments is that they can now also look at slightly newer cars, instead of always waiting for the cars to be 30 years before they take them home to Norway – or as many people actually do: they buy cars even if they are 25 years old, and then they stand in the garage for five years, until they are ready to register – and then they like to be on a test plate a few times. So for the enthusiast environments, this is fine. I hope it'll be implemented quickly. Of course, I accept that it will be sent to the hearing, but I see no reason why the government should sit and assess it further than that. I think someone can call, for example. The AmCar club and get a proposal for a system put on the table very quickly. It is also worth noting that when we addressed this in a written question in October two years ago, Question No. 136 – No 136 from the Progress Party, but from the whole of Stortinget – this was something that the government didn't see any sense in looking at anymore. I am very pleased that the Council of State Johnsen has now sat down and looked at this proposal and saw that it was actually a good question, a good suggestion to do something about, and that we get support when we now promote this in the Stortinget. So thank you once again to the President-in-Office, thank you to the Council of State that will let that happen, and thank you for the red-green parties voting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1219	Then, as usual, I'm going to help keep the good atmosphere at right here in the hall! I would just like to stress that we are not petty. Today, if I should say it with a little glimpse in my eye, we are in the process of examining six Document 8 proposals, and two of them have passed. So it's a one-third countdown, and it's not that bad. As a matter of fact, I live by some words of wisdom from former Prime Minister Jan P. Syse: He used to say that one should not repair what is right, and that one should be for what one is for and against what one is against! I think that's a good political delivery gel. But back to the case: the system we have today is based on relatively old calculations that were made as far back as 1994. That's why in winter we commissioned the Transport Economics Institute to update the calculations, precisely because they were so old. As also pointed out by the Committee in the vote, the mission of TØI did not include the impairment of cars over 15 years of age. The background was that TØI was only given the task of calculating the impairment of newer vehicles, among others. because it is a poorer data material for older vehicles. But I guess one will hit relatively well with the deduction of a warehouse a clean projection of it. So the Committee then asks us to change the general use deduction, so that there is also a tax dwindling of imports of used cars between 15 and 30 years old. This is entirely in line with the government's intention that the general use allowance should reflect the fair impairment of the vehicles, and I will follow this up in the revision of the general use allowances. These use deductions are regulated by a regulation. It will be consulted as soon as possible so that I can meet the Committee's wish for new rules to be put in place quickly. Then it may well be that we all have a secret dream of recovering the good cars of our youth. For the undersigned, it would mean an Amazon 69 model, but it is regardless of the age deduction!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1230	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1244	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that four lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1253	The proposal on dynamic effects and its impact is very central to fiscal policy, and therefore we will probably debate this even more after this proposal has been debated, because it is about how the tax works and its impact on policy-makers out there – everything from employees to owners and the whole of society. The 1992 tax reform, which was a major success, and which has then been established in many ways, is at least the main principles. It provided a much wider tax platform and much lower rates, and it allowed most taxpayers to focus more on making money and adapting wisely than having a focus on avoiding adjustment, so that the tax level could be lowered. There is a lot to learn from that tax reform in 1992, and we also see that many countries around us are trying to move in the same direction as Norway in making the tax system simpler and more broadly thought-out. It was okay to say this initially. But as far as the proposal here is concerned, we differ a lot in the comments. I'm assuming that the majority themselves are explaining why they're just really happy and don't want a sample. But I notice that they say that they ‘are concerned that the Ministry of Finance has close and ongoing contact with central research environments on tax and behavior, because this is an area of great uncertainty’. This is a direct quote from what the majority of people write. I think this should reflect a little bit also in the general tax debate, where there is a tendency to forget a lot of the uncertainty and adaptations that are affected in many ways here. To get the right adaptation and to get the right focus out in the population is hugely important. We talk a lot about oil in this house. Not so much attention is given to 80-85 pst. of the national wealth is made up of our common brain capacity and the way we manage to use the working capacity of each of the Nordics, and this is actually the very basis for a tax system, that there will be focus. As early as 2009, the right promoted a proposal to reduce a sample to look at the dynamic effects of the tax system. At that time it was pointed out that a working group had to be set up in the ministry. In the response of the Minister of Finance this year, the working group is quite silent, and the work that has been done is also little known. Now it is important to go in and support various research institutes. It is well and good, and it is important to have independent environments that constantly assess what is happening, but the purpose of such a working group was that it should be targeted – how to get grips on the dynamic effects. For they are big: I notice that there are huge errors of estimate in the tax system, and almost as much as that, you underestimate the tax intake. It is unlikely that everything is only due to economic conditions – there are probably also adjustments and lack of estimations of dynamic effects that make you miss out on the estimates that have been made. We should perhaps remember that underestimating tax estimates in many ways is the same as maintaining a higher level of taxation than is necessary – if you systematically underestimate the tax estimates in the budget. It also has something to do with credibility, and I think lack of grip on whether the dynamic effects are important here. Of course, how dynamic the effects are, we can always discuss, but I remind you that the Ministry of Finance itself – in its answer to the Right of a Budget question – has estimated the dynamic effect around the top tax to be approximately. 10 pst. So 10 pst. come back to the state as a result of dynamic adaptations, and then we can continue to discuss the magnitude of the effects. So here the debate is probably going to go on. On the basis of this article, I address the proposal made by the opposition that a sample be reduced to look at the dynamic effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1268	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1271	Now I'm relatively fresh in the finance committee, but I understand that this has been a recurring theme over the last three years, and that it's not the first time you have debated dynamic effects in this room. It is interesting to talk about the fact that some forms of tax relief can have a self-financing effect – in all ways – but I have to say that it has been spectacular to discover that the dynamic tax policy has become a central theme for the opposition. The last time dynamic effects were a central part of our economic policy, was in the 1980s, during the Japanese era. At that time, much of the approach to the economy was marked by tax havens that were supposed to be self-financing — i.e. the dynamic tax policy — of low-interest policies, and by the fact that oil money was phased right into the state budget. We know what the results of that were. When you look at the overall picture of what part of the opposition parties are concerned about, what you want from the development of economic policy, I think that the dynamic effects and how busy they are must be seen in such a context. I get, to be honest, something worried about it. Then I also have to say that I think it's a little unclear – it doesn't come out very clearly in the debates – what you really talk about when you discuss dynamic effects. Traditionally, dynamic effects have been defined as stimulating labour supply growth by providing tax relief. But here I often get the impression that you also talk about that tax havens generally give people more money between their hands, will generate increased activity. I would like to correct if I am wrong, but it is a leftover impression from those behind this proposal. The effect of this last one, that people in general get more money between their hands, is highly doubtful. There is little research evidence to suggest that increased private consumption produces more dynamic effects than increased public consumption, for example: In addition, it will quickly have an income effect that allows people to choose more leisure when they get more money between their hands instead of working more. Then the case rapporteur tried to get a little bit confused that the Ministry of Finance is following up on research, and on what is happening in the research communities around tax and behaviour. I think that's important and correct, because there are uncertainties in economic theory about this. A good example of this, I think, is the references that have been made to the 2006 tax reform. It is often shown as an example that the dynamic effects are real – as if this were a kind of religious debate, it is not – as evidence that dynamic effects actually exist. It is true that the 2006 tax reform has been partly self-financing. Much of the reason for this is that it was the marginal tax that went into play. In order to achieve dynamic effects in the traditional sense, the marginal tax level is interesting. This is what matters with the job offer – not to increase the bottom line and the kind of things, although it may be nice. Therefore, it is also a little strange to observe that the Progress Party in its alternative budget without any further justification suggests that their fiscal policy will have a dynamic effect of 25 pst. - Flat. It has not been sent to the SSB together with the other budget headings for confirmation. But it's also a little strange that you assume that raising people's bottoms, for example, will have such an effect. It is highly questionable. The majority sees no need to bring down a separate sample to determine this. We believe it is good that the Ministry of Finance has close contact with the research communities around it. I'm particularly concerned that you follow the Empire. One thing is to sit and research and relate to theoretical models, but following up on empirical and what is actually happening in those countries that change their tax system is important. We believe that the Ministry of Finance should continue, so that we also have the best basis for making right decisions when we make changes to our tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1290	Now the representative Marianne Marthinsen said that she was a little new in the finance committee and new in this field, but I actually thought she made a lot of wise observations, namely that you don't have all the information you need about this, and therefore you should look into it. That's exactly what the proposal is about, that's to lower a sample, so we can look at this in more detail, so that the representative Marthinsen also gets more knowledge about this. This must not be hidden from the big business representatives and be something that the Minister of Finance is doing. But at least I can inform the representative Marthinsen about the following – and I take this from the 2010 Somfun agonomen, where Ådne Cappelen, along with four researchers, tries to explain what dynamic effects actually are – and then I hope she follows: ‘Individual behaviour is influenced by changes in the tax system, often referred to as dynamic effects.’ — Dynamic effects are changes, right? – ‘In describing the economic impact of tax changes, the magnitude of the dynamic effects and the dynamic effects taken into account’. Then it goes on to say: «Reduction in income taxes affects the economic situation of persons in addition to the immediate increase in disposable income. For example, reducing the marginal tax on employee income in the first round will increase the income of persons and reduce tax revenue, but may also lead to more people choosing to work, some going from part-time to full-time work, or those in full-time employment choosing to work more overtime. Increased working time will therefore extend the tax base. Such effects are often referred to as ‘dynamic effects’ of fiscal policies. ‘Dynamic’ in this sense is not really the opposite of ‘static’ as we know these concepts in economics, by changing the effects over time, but simply means that the tax base is affected by the tax rate. This provides a basis for discussing the ‘self-financing rate’ of a tax reduction.’ It's a greeting from Ådne Cappelen and four researchers from both Norway and the rest of the world. So at least we have the definition of what this is. But how do you figure out the effect of the different tax changes? That's what this sample is going to look at. I therefore hope that Marianne Marthinsen will vote in favour of this information, as she lacked the information when she stood here in the pulpit. So just a little curiosity. The representative Marthinsen – I am sorry that I refer very much to her in the post here – also mentioned the 25 pst. The dynamic effect that we have put into our alternative state budget. This is precisely what we have done to show that it has effects — that tax relief has consequences, and that it has a lot of dynamic effects. We're not sure if that's exactly 25 pst. It could be 23, it could be 20, and it could be 27 and 30 pst, but the point is we haven't aged the budget by these 25 percent either. But we have put it in so that we can refer it to the main hall – which is done in this case. That's why it's very wise that we did it that way, so the representatives are aware that it has a potential effect. The degree of this we don't know, but it's just Sigbjørn Johnsen who's completely sure about this, because he has information from different teams that he doesn't share with the staging room, but that he's inputting when he thinks it's relevant. To the representative Tegen in the previous case, I can say that he will vote in favour of what he is in favour of and against what he is against. I guess it also saw the state council immediately afterwards. I assume that the representative Tegen will also be in charge of this matter when he gets more information. We're not making any decisions, we're just asking for more information, so we can have better alternative state budgets and better state budgets in the future. I believe that the representative Tegen is also very much in favour, like the representative Marthinsen. You could imagine taking an example of dynamic effects. If someone who worked in the store was told that they got 100 pst. tax, they would hardly have met at work. If you got 90 pst, you'd meet up. in taxes? Nope. 80 pst.? Nope. 70 pst.? No, probably not. 60 pst.? No, no, no. At some point one would say that this is favorable, this I will do – work a little, but maybe not that much. If there's ever going to be a lower tax, I'd like to work more. Do I get better pay or lower tax? It doesn't really matter. You get better pay on Saturdays – you like to get the same tax rate, but it's better paid, and it's more attractive to work on a Saturday. These are effects — on the one hand, on the pay side, and on the other hand, on the tax side. It has effect, but we want to know where and how much. So I appeal again to the Council of State to turn this case around so that we also have access to the information he says he has access to, and so that both the position and the opposition have the same access to information.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1318	To be a little disrespectful: the representative Tybring-Gjedde came with a very long quote. There was a lot of good in it, but I understand that it was too far to present it on a poster, at least. I really think it's a good debate we've had. The previous speaker said that although the representative Marthinsen had not been in the committee for so long, it was very good in her post. Now I'm not so sure that you need to sit on the Finance Committee to have opinions about or to have understood the dynamic effects of tax policy – the contribution of the representative Marthinsen suggests that she is reasonably good at it, regardless of seagoing times. But what I find interesting, as the representative Marthinsen said in his speech, is that this is not a religious debate. But that's what it's going to be. Now, in this very debate, we have talked a lot about which labour supply can be estimated if you change the tax, one at a time or another. Another part, which I expect it should be more interested in than it has now been, is to see, for example. on what it has the effect of if we do something about the taxes on wealth. The Christian People's Party has no religious relationship with the tax on wealth, although I understand that some others do, when you look at the level of debate. I also realized that the lo might not have it. Even the Minister of Industry seems to have a rather pragmatic relationship with the taxation of wealth. It must be a point for us, as elected representatives and legislators, to ensure that we have legislation that strengthens Norwegian working life and Norwegian jobs, not the opposite. But because it has a label that says ‘taxes on wealth’, you often take the positions you have had for a long, long time. There's something we think such a sample would be useful to look at. I understand that the government should follow closely, but I am not quite sure if you spend time and energy looking at the effects of the type of tax that the property tax represents, for example. In fact, we think this is a good proposal. We will have a broader and more insightful debate. We will get facts on the table – different environments that look at the effect of taxation and its dynamic effects than we do at present. I am fully aware that the government thinks it has good enough access to different assessments. Fair enough. But I don't think it would have hurt if we had had a slightly wider basis for debate, as this proposal suggests, and that therefore gets our recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1333	I will not repeat what has been said before, but go straight to the matter. In the setting, government parties themselves write that this is an area of great uncertainty and that empirical knowledge is required. That's my whole left and my whole point and reason to vote in favour of the proposal. There is so much uncertainty that there is a need for a separate independent investigation and a serious debate in the Stortinget based on just such an investigation. After all, there is no doubt that there is confusion within the government parties as well. In the financial debate of the year, no one doubted that there were such effects, while last year's financial debate evidently meant that they did not exist. The Prime Minister then stated that: ‘We are witnessing the ultimate death of dynamic fiscal policy. Let us not revive here in Norway a policy that has passed away at death in the rest of the world.’ But in today's position, in a comment from the majority, it says: «Based on economic theory, tax relief can have a positive effect on the supply of work through the substitution effect and a negative effect through the income effect. The overall effect will largely depend on the way the tax relief is designed.’» In other words, the dynamic tax policy is at its best. This is exactly what is at the heart of the matter. The left and the other opposition parties consider it appropriate for all parties to – for example: Alternative State budgets — proposing tax havens may be nice if you have a common understanding of whether this will lead to dynamic effects, both in the short and long term, or if it will not. That's why we suggest that a sample be put down to investigate the question, and that the Stortinget get a case of its own. Then we can have a thorough discussion of dynamic effects based on a common investigation and not based on the investigations that the government at any time believes substantiate their claims. The world is not as simple as proposing some tax reliefs/modifications, such as the 2011 pensioner tax, which are based on dynamic effects, whereas when the opposition in various areas creates dynamic effects from its tax proposals, it is unsustainable budgeting. For example, the Minister of Finance writes in reply to questions from the Left: «Any change in the tax rate will affect the incentives to work for those in the peak tax position.» So it's going to have dynamic effect. But the extent of this effect cannot be answered by the Minister of Finance. Is Left impact on a dynamic power of 10 pst. then unprofessional, or very conservative? In the same answer, the Ministry of Finance writes that some studies show that the reduction in top tax can have a self-financing rate – i.e. dynamic effect – of 17 pst. I don't understand why you can't get an independent investigation into the dynamic effects of tax changes, when there's obviously confusion about this in the government itself. Why is it so dangerous that the Stortinget is presented with a separate case which is followed up by hearings and serious proceedings in the committee? Finally, I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance: what will be the negative consequences if the minority's proposals are adopted here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1370	The opposition has repeatedly claimed to have signed up from proposals. They've been a few about a lot of things. Maybe it's so that this document no. The 8 proposal is a typical example of that. The opposition has agreed to impose a new work on the government. It's not that hard in itself to get to know exactly that, but the political content we don't know so much about. It was Tybring-Gjedde's post that actually made me ask for the word. He sees it as simple that the person who does not vote to set down a selection to address the dynamic effects of short- and long-term tax cuts, in fact, will not have any more information about this theme. I perceive the Minister of Finance's letter so that he unrelentingly collects information as a background for making new proposals. This is also true in the case of new tax proposals. So what's really going to be the discussion is whether or not a new selection is needed, an independent assessment, and what information would you get. Is it so safe to, for example, all the tax proposals of the Left would be captured in such a new independent assessment? I assume that when the government makes new proposals in both taxation and in other areas, there are assessments as the basis for those proposals. In this way, I know that the Minister of Finance also makes a commitment to an assessment in advance, without one necessarily seeing the need to walk the path of an independent selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1379	It is enough that most taxes and taxes affect behaviour. I think we can quickly agree on that. An example of this is what happened before the tax reform in 1992, when we had very high marginal pay taxes, which made it almost free to borrow, and which was probably a significant contributory reason for what we later saw on the bank page a few years later. Another example was that one over the years had eroded the tax system through various tax incentives that resulted in a wrong ‘investment’. An important result of the tax reform in 1992 was a sharp rise in investment in business after a change in the tax system. So yes, most taxes and taxes affect behavior. I think we can quickly agree on that. Then I will also show that in each national budget we have a separate chapter dealing with tax costs. It's interesting reading, if one in an ideal model sees what kind of loss one has on different tax arrangements compared to a completely neutral tax system. What is important is that the tax economy is an important part of the tax debate, and I am concerned that tax economy and fiscal research should have good conditions in Norway. Some research is being carried out in this area in Norway today, and to some extent internationally, but much remains to be done. It concerns both the development of this theory, but it's also as much as empirical research can be called to quantify the effects of behavioural changes. So we follow closely – and when I say that, we do – in fiscal research. We have contributed significantly over time to strengthening research efforts in Norway through the Research Council. A short time ago – this fall – I opened a new tax research centre at the Höchskolan School of Commerce in Bergen and one at the University of Oslo just to help provide a good basis for this debate. It is true that when the research communities in Norway and internationally arrive at new research results, new model tools, we will of course assess the importance of new knowledge for the department's calculations, model use and more tax assessments. Of course, what we are helping to achieve through research should also be made available to those who want to participate in this debate, so that we can get the best possible basis for the discussion. So the Ministry of Finance's ambition, to use such an expression, is to use research results – to help tax-economic research make our assessments in the ministry and as the basis for decisions in the Stortinget ever better. I believe that we can achieve that by continuing our efforts as we do today, by investing significantly in research. And that's why I'm a little more doubtful about setting up a separate sample, but will continue to give priority to the work area, contribute to research, as the ministry already does. Finally, it is the case that tax relief – in any case – is never free. I don't think it's possible to get there. But what we have seen, and on which there is a relatively broad consensus, is that some tax changes can become more reasonable through behavioural changes over time. A clear example of this is what we did by dramatically reducing the marginal tax rate in the 1992 tax reform. An important consideration of the 2011 pension tax reform was to ensure that a person who had a partial pension and, in part, a job would not receive a higher marginal tax than one who was in full employment — an example of using the tax system to promote behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1400	It was interesting to hear from the Council of State. Most taxes and taxes affect behaviour, he said at the outset. So dynamic tax effects exist – they're the exact same words. Then one of the representatives said that the Council of State is unrelentingly retrieving information – I guess.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1407	Yes, both – I'm sorry! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1412	So the state council says in the post that a lot remains – a lot remains. It is clear that, despite the fact that the Council of State unrelentingly collects information and is expedient in its work, it would have been interesting to share this work with the Stortinget – not at the request of the Council of State, but by selections that can present the results of a hearing to the Financial Committee, so that we can challenge the various sides. I ask again, almost on my knees, that the Council of State turns and down such a selection, and that it vote for the proposal, so that we all get the information that the Council of State says he has access to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1417	I am sorry that I broke into the line of representative Tybring-Gjedde – it will not repeat itself, but it was tempting. That's right, we're doing our best to provide information, and -- not least -- we're helping to produce good research results, good research reports in the tax-economy, precisely because this is so central to policy-making. As I also said in my contribution, it is fully possible to make that kind of result available to the Storting, so that we have an even better basis for the discussion one should have about dynamic effects and other fiscal effects. It is fully possible to do without starting a big job with a new sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1424	The Council of State said that tax havens are not free. It may be recalled that public consumption is not free of charge either. The Ministry of Finance itself argues that there is a tax loss of about 20 p.m. in the case of the collection of taxes. We might be able to take that as something basic. I agreed with a lot in the articles of the Council of State. This increase in investment following the 1992 tax reform is interesting. It also did the tax input from business. If you see the tax revenue from business now compared to before the tax reform in 1992, it is now 4 p.m. of GDP, before 1992 it was of 2 pst. It illustrates the dynamics of the tax system. When the Council of State says that he is accompanying us incessantly, it is something other than having targeted missions. I ask, is the Council of State going to send targeted assignments on what you want to explain to these research institutes that he is now describing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1433	Yeah, I think it's important to be aware of two things. One is that tax costs exist for different types — what can be called tax incentives — a long table in the national budget. Yes, there are also costs of collecting the tax. That is why it is so important to have an effective tax system, a simple tax system, a tax system that has a high degree of legitimacy in the population. We discussed that, among other things. in the first case today. And yes, there will be targeted missions, which will allow you to add a mandate on the table to a targeted mission, and then, of course, the research institution in question – those who are going to do this – will have to be free to find the results that they are going to find. While it is an important part of free research, providing a good basis for the fiscal debate is also an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1438	I was going to use the property tax as an example of what the changes the government and government parties have done is justified by. In many ways, the government parties boast that there are several thousand – many thousands, I don't know how many – who are now free to pay taxes on wealth. My questions are: What is the reason why the government has wanted such a change? Is it for distributive reasons that the changes you have made have been made? Is it because one sees that it has had an unfortunate tax dynamic effect not to do anything about the tax on wealth, or is it simply as simple as that many of the government parties' voters gradually come into a property tax position?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1445	In fact, about 500,000 people now, in 2012, do not pay taxes on wealth, which paid taxes on wealth in 2005. The percentage is about halved, from 34 pst. until 17 pst. Some of the reasons for this are — and this government has written and has no difficulty in saying — that there are also negative aspects to the taxes on wealth. One negative side, as one did in the 2006 tax reform, was to improve the distribution effect of property taxes through increased deductions, so that many with small assets dropped property taxes, while removing some of the discounts in the system that improved the distribution effect of property taxes, in the government’s view. But there is no reason to hide that taxes on wealth have an impact on saving and behaviour. Then there was an interesting report today, which was mentioned in Today's Business, which also shows another interesting aspect of the property tax, which we will probably discuss in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1452	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President will recall that we will conclude the meeting no later than noon. 13.45.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1459	I'll make this card. Now, it is probably not a big point to make my seagoing time in the committee a topic of debate, but when it was mentioned anyway, I would say that it was simply surprising to get into this committee and discover how central – how surprisingly large a place – the dynamic effects have in some of the tax policies of the opposition parties. When I said that I lacked information, it wasn't about information about what dynamic effects are, or what dynamic effects mean, but I lacked information about what the opposition means by dynamic effects. What my old lecturer at the Institute of Economics, Ådne Cappelen, puts in that term, I have a relatively good overview of, so as it were, the representative Tybring-Gjed was reading from the pulpit here a nice and pleasant review with many good points, but they were not particularly clarifying. The report to which Mr Tybring-Gjedde refers points out that it is the job offer that is the central issue when discussing this issue. It's the marginal tax – what you pay out of taxes on the last penny – that matters for people's employment. So it's strange to see that the Progress Party just assumes, completely flat, that they want 25 pst. – that is a high figure – the degree of self-financing in everything they propose, whether it be increased deductions, the removal of sugar levies, the removal of alcohol levies or other things. There is little reason to assume that something like this will have a major impact on the supply of work, at least not in the magnitude that we are talking about here, almost on the contrary, because you can have a negative income effect. When the Progress Party adds the number 25 pst. basically, it must be because you have a presumption that more money on private hands at the expense of public consumption will somehow generate more activity – I don't know. That's what I've asked for an explanation of. Then the opposition, both through the setting and also here from the pulpit, gives the impression that it is that the Ministry of Finance and the positioning parties are sitting on a lot of secret information and research results that would confirm the opposition's worldview, if only it was published. With all sorts of respect: there is a lot of research going on, but this isn't as hot an international theme as you'd think, it's a lot of people who have bad experience with it. But there is a lot of research on behavior and taxation in general, and this is not information that the position parties have exclusive access to. It's basically just to keep an eye on what's going on internationally, for those who are interested. That's good for the general tax debate. I doubt whether a particular sample would take us any closer to a phase. Its useful value is likely to be very limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1472	No, I don't think that's very much secret information, but I see there's a total lack of curiosity about the central assumptions of our tax system, and it doesn't keep referring to international agreements, this is also country-specific. This is a brief comment for the previous speaker. But first I have to say that I am very surprised at the representative Marthinsen. Although she has been in the finance committee for a short time, it is remarkable that dynamic effects are being talked about as if there is still some concern about it. I'll remind you that if it's just ten pst. dynamics – as the Ministry of Finance has confirmed to the Right, and I believe it is conservative – during the entire tax estimate in Norway, we could forget the wealth tax debate and a number of other debates. That's actually the kind of sum we're talking about. That the head of the Workers' Party's financial fraction – or at least the substitute leader – has such an easy way of dealing with such large sums and so important adaptations to society, I think it is quite remarkable. I hope she's taken the finance minister's position, which is a lot softer in this area. The second is that I think the representative Marthinsen makes it appear that it is the state that initially disposes of the money. After all, it's not. It is the employee and the taxpayer who primarily disposes of the money, and then the state has to justify why you need the level of taxation you need to cover the common good and the tasks you agree to have. So we shouldn't turn the debate upside down. It is important to have the good reason and to find the right level of efficiency in the tax system. Then I'm going to put the property tax on a little visit, because I think it's hugely important for the diversity out there. It is important for innovation in Norway, and it is important for the spread of power outside that one has a dispersed and varied ownership. I think this is remarkable. I have received many enquiries from those in the wealth tax position who ask: Why should I spend more than half my time trying to avoid the tax and find ways to avoid it? There is a bad use of resources for a society. It is almost never illuminated in this debate. But there are a number of resource-intensive people who spend a lot of their time figuring out how to actually avoid the tax. That's what we're talking about when it comes to dynamic effects. It's about penning the creative creative power out there into constructive things, not avoiding the impositions of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1484	I think it has been said some wise words here today. Among other things, the Minister of Finance said that tax relief is never free. No, there is also the fact that tax increases are never free of charge. There's always someone who has to pay for it. It seems that the government thinks that if they increase a tax, the money comes from nothing, but if they give a tax relief, the money will also disappear into nothing. I actually think it's possible to have welfare development if people get to keep a little bit more of their own income, that it's not just the state that's capable of creating well-being in this society. Targeted assignment spoke about by the representative Gundersen. That's exactly what's the point of a government sitting there saying they're following closely. Yes, after six and a half years in the Energy Committee, I also noticed that four different energy ministers said that they followed closely the situation. Nevertheless, they were never able to provide an energy message as a whole, and made sure that policies were implemented. I also assume that the government follows closely the EEA Agreement, even though two of the parties here want to wind it up. That's why one should make sure that exactly this theme, dynamic effects, will provide the Storting with information, not just a government that follows closely in bursting directions. I actually think that's what's the challenge here. After participating in some budget debates, one sees that red-green politicians are very disagreeable about views on what dynamic effect really is. The representative Marthinsen has such poor arguments for her own positions that she tries to turn the arguments of the counterparty. Let me just make it clear that the Progress Party has never said that it is 25 pst. dynamic effect on each tax or charge in which we make changes. It's a general estimate. We have made it clear – and the representative of Marthinsen should have got it if she is interested in the theme at all – that there are some things here that will have a wealth effect, and other things will affect behavior. We want someone that affects big, and someone that affects little. That's the total estimate we've given here, which is important. Job offers are an important factor here, but also how you spend your money. We've just discussed other things here. We actually think that the tax system stimulates behavior, both what a buyer, how much a job is, but like where a job is. There's a difference between using the tax system to absorb people's purchasing power, and then distributing it to industries that can't live on their own work, compared to making sure that those who are productive can survive without paying too much tax to subsidize those who really can't live on their own income. In order to take the property tax as an example: the financial paper had for approx. three weeks ago a notice on how to avoid property taxes next year. Well, one goes into the housing market and buys a two-room in Oslo. Then an overcity of competitors who don't pay taxes on wealth, simply because the tax expense saved can also be used as part of the interest cost. This means that today's property tax brings up the prices of small dwellings for ordinary people, so that they also have to pay the cost of having the property tax. When we asked the government what the impact estimate is, the government didn't have any idea. Only there are good enough reasons why you should look at this matter and vote yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The size of the store will take a break until 1:00 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The first case in the afternoon's meeting is case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 13.43. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 16th@item: inlistbox President: Dagfinn Højbråten
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1516	Then Stortinget is ready to resume the negotiations in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1530	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1539	One of the points of this proposal is to get more people to go to and from work, so it's okay that we get a demonstration here in the hall at exactly what it means. I would like to start by thanking the proposers for helping to put a real global and national challenge on the agenda: sustainable urban development, and also thanking the Committee for the good and thorough consideration of the proposal. The concept of urban sprawl is used to spread urban areas beyond large areas. When the distance between dwellings and workplaces grows, more people have to use cars. It results in increased climate emissions, greater congestion, increased time use, queues and chaos. The answer is tightness, building around existing centers and collective nodes, building closer and higher, so that people get shorter travels and use cars less. The proposal is about urban policy, urban development, but also about housing. Building more dwellings is an ambition I believe the whole Stortinge share. It is completed at the base of 30,000 dwellings this year. Since the mid 1980s, we've only had similar housing for two years. But Norway is now in a period of historical population growth. The offer does not match the demand. It's a big challenge, not least for the municipalities. Proposalers also address the need for increased public transport investment. In this context, I would like to refer to what is in the climate agreement, and which is becoming important in the work on NTP: the traffic growth in the metropolitan areas must come in the form of people walking, cycling or traveling collectively. The Government Parties share the commitment of proposers to sustainable housing and urban development policies. Nearly four out of five Nordics live today in cities and towns. The representatives of the Christian People's Party are particularly concerned with the Oslo region. That is why Oslo and Akershus are expected to have grown by 2030 with almost as many inhabitants as there are today living in Bergen and Trondheim together. Growth in population and activity is positive, and of course this also applies to the growth of the capital region. At the same time, housing, infrastructure and environment challenges need to be addressed. The original proposal concerns many policy areas: finance and housing policy, work on national transport plans, the Husbank’s arrangements and national policy provisions on purchasing centres, to mention something. The majority cannot vote in favour of the proposals that are being promoted. In part, we disagree, in part, we think it is wrong to separate parts of housing, climate, finance and education policy from the rest. We also believe that there is an unsound criticism in the proposal of the municipalities in the Oslo area, on which we cannot participate. There is a big difference in the attitude towards denseness in e.g. Lørskog and Oslo on one side and Asker and Bærum on the other. A little on the individual proposals: Proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and proposal No. 9 from the Christian People's Party relates to claims for equity in mortgages and similar to proposals The Storting has already rejected. Proposals Nos. 2–5 we believe that we are being cared for or taken care of in work that is ongoing. It is already the case that sustainability principles are to be applied to all site developments. It can be done, among other things: from national assumptions to regional and county planning from 2011. The majority agree that the density potential is high in all cities and agglomerations, but at the same time is concerned that densification must be done with quality. This means that green areas, the outdoors and the cultural environment are to be preserved and further developed. Student housing is a theme for the proposals No. 6 and No 7th@item: inlistbox It is nice that the Christian People's Party has ambitions in this area, because under the government of Bondevik II the number of student homes it was promised, every year, fell to approx. 300 in 2005. When the government took over today, this was increased, and every year support was given for approx. 1000 student homes. About and how we can increase this further, for example. through the facility of the grant scheme and the organisation of municipalities, become the subject of the housing notification. Since the setting was made, proposal is no. 8 has become out-of-date. The mortgage lending framework has already been extended to 20 billion. kr for this year, and the same has been adopted for 2013. Proposal No. 10 refers to a national pre-own rental scheme. “Leie pre-eigen” projects are already being carried out in several municipalities, but we will look at the rules when dealing with the housing notification. Where and how do we live? Where are we going to work? And how are we going to go back and forth? These three issues will be among the most important for many years to come. I look forward to the debate and will once again thank the Christian People's Party for having raised an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1571	We can see this proposal of representatives as a warm-up to something the Stortinge has enjoyed for a long time: the long-term announcement of housing, which must be promoted in the coming session if it is to become a reality at all for this expansion. Some of the themes addressed by the proposers will be natural to deal with precisely with the government's housing notification, and there is also some of the review tone in the replies received from the departments concerned. In addition, there is also a certain overlap with the proposals that have been put forward by the Right, which have particularly gone on the plan page: what can we do to simplify the everyday life of those who are involved in building the country, literally, with housing and through expansion? I would also like to say that the proposers raise interesting issues that we are going to come back to. With regard to the ten proposals in total, I would also like to point out that proposal No. 8 to raise the limits to 20 billion. The Stortinget has already done the same for the current year, and the same framework has also been introduced for the next year. Otherwise, some of the review tone is that it looks like the proposers have a strong belief that there are government guidelines that, with a stroke, will allow for faster housing production in the municipalities. There we have a somewhat different confidence in local self-government and are anxious that state overgovernment will actually be involved in inhibiting the regulatory work and the plan work to be done at municipal level. An example of a cheap use of instruments is the intensification of the Councils of the Environment States to ensure that there are no objections if the local regulatory plans do not have the content they want. Moreover, part of the views expressed by the proposers is more to take into account in the local municipal administration than to say that the Stortinge should centralise treatment from a stand in the capital of the country. We have a great deal of faith, even with regard to purchasing centre development and other things, that you can have common sense and understanding in the local local government. Where I've also seen that there's a good part missing, and where we from the Right Group would say that there's a lot of verbal goodwill, about collective action. However, if you look at the response from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to a reinforced collective coverage, especially in the case of bets on NSB Proximity, it is said, even though this room adopted the intercity triangle in 1997, that the concerns of the proposers are almost already taken care of. It is pointed out that on the Vestfold track you have received double tracks on the route Barkåker-Tønsberg, the construction of Holm-Nykirke is ongoing, and the Farriseidet-Porsgrund has just started. Along Mjösa, road and rail are now being built at the same time, and, it is called, the planning of a new double track between Oslo and Ski is under way. In my opinion, this shows that there is nothing wrong with the plans, but the implementation power. It's a matter of speeding up these projects, which are so far-reaching that today we don't have the collective coverage and the close traffic offer that this region deserves. We could relieve very much of the pressure against housing in Oslo by implementing decisions that the country's National Assembly for the longest time had foreseen. What we don't need now is more paper plans and more initiatives that just end up in desk drawers, but we just need to realize what the Stortinget has previously taken as a principle decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1590	Now both the case spokesman and Michael Tetzschner from the Right have managed to fool themselves into leading the Progress Party, so there is a lot to be said of what is to be said in this case. However, I would say that I found it positive that the Christian People's Party once again looked at this matter, this issue, on the agenda. So we have a strong population growth in the country – 70 000–80 000 a year. We also have an urbanization that makes people move to central areas. And so we have too low housing. The Progress Party believes that it is the state that has the primary responsibility for the low housing structure, by having state agencies that come with contradictions and stop regulatory plans. One also has a lot of detailed adjustments in recent years – both in laws, regulations and circulars. This means that there are increasing demands for the regulation of housing and also detailed requirements for the construction of apartments and dwellings. We've also recorded that it's often going to be a debt to the municipalities because it's being regulated too little. That's what we think is completely wrong. One must respect the local self-government rights of the municipalities, and one should therefore look at what the state does – all the contradictions one comes with from state authorities – before one starts shooting at the municipalities and complaining about them. The Progress Party wants to support some of the proposals that have come from the Christian People's Party, which we believe contribute in a positive direction, and that is the proposal No. 4, 6, and 7. What we believe is constructive proposals, which will contribute to a few things being done, both by the fact that the Husbank should be responsible for the construction of student buildings and also by the fact that one should build at least 2,000 of these, which the Progress Party has also contributed to its alternative state budget. The Progress Party also has a proposal that the case-speaker, Håkon Haugli, has already commented on. It is that we want the Financial Supervisory Authority’s own funds assessment – how much each individual must have in equity – to be advisory and not binding. We've had it before in other forms, but it's obvious that that proposal has not been registered before, because the majority of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, of which Håkon Haugli is a part, said on page 8 of the setting: «This majority records that there is no disagreement as to whether or not to be an equity claim.» So that's not the point. That's what the Progress Party has put forward here, and we want to get a vote on it. Whether this has occurred in this period or not, in this form, I can't say it on a standing footing. But I record that the government majority has not registered any such proposal in their comments earlier. So I hope that's what I'm going to evaluate. We mean that it must be up to the banks – a banking assessment – whether to give a loan or not. So it might be safe to lend a loan to someone, even if they don't have the necessary capital, if their income is well matched by the loan to be used. So then I have that proposal new.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1610	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1613	Thank you to the Christian People's Party for an interesting proposal – or proposals in majority form. For this is a misguided proposal that thematically embraces a lot, and we've probably also got a position in line with it, with unusually many party-proposals, which might be a little natural, when there are just as many different themes that we're in here. It gives us an opportunity for interesting discussions, and it also gives us a good input into more future discussions, not least the upcoming housing announcement, which Michael Tetzschner was about. So it makes sense for us red-green to say that this is to be added to the protocol. And then it's actively meant in the sense that we're all going to take this into the further work. For my own part – it is possible that it is very private or personal – I think this shows a limitation in the operation of Storting. In the context of such major policy-making documents, as a housing message is, one might have thought a little bit more of a part of the debate, but the way we have to do it now, as we have organized ourselves here in Stortingen, is that it's just going to be this way. We have an interesting discussion about this with the choice between state guidelines on one side and municipalities, which are self-planning, on the other side. In our opinion, we should be more concerned with the planning processes that we already have a lot of, namely regional planning processes between the state guidelines and the individual planning that each municipality is conducting. For, not least when it comes to furniture of metropolitan regions we are talking about, the municipality level is too small, and – there I fully agree with Michael Tetzscher – we cannot sit up at the national level and do detailed, good planning here. This, I think, is the blind spot in the Right and Advance Party approach to planning. They are very concerned that one should release the municipality of Norway and get fewer objections. Then better planning will suddenly come into place. No, what we need more is exactly what we already see going on in a good way in many metropolitan regions. We need more offensive, good overall regional planning. It is very important for us red-green that there should be a planning that is politically governed, that is democratic, and in order to achieve that we need both the county council and an offensive and good county. If we go to my own county and look at the planning of E6 above the Gudbrand valley, it can be compared a little bit to the planning challenge you have in a metropolitan region. Yes, there were many interesting debates related to the opposition institute — how it was practiced. What was equally clear was that such a heavy infrastructure cannot be planned by adding together what the individual municipality is doing up in the Gudbrand valley. It was so obvious that we have to get up to an over-municipal level – of course with good input and participation from the municipal level. But we have to go over to an over-municipal level – up to the regional level – to get good overall planning in the Gudbrand valley. And I think the same thing is definitely going to apply to a metropolitan region. Then I'm a little surprised by the Christian People's Party. I think it should be unnecessary to ask the Christian People's Party to think again: Is it necessary to weaken student relations? Have student relationships behaved in such a way that it is necessary to take from them the power, tasks and responsibilities they have today to build student homes? I very much agree that it is nice to build more student homes, but let the student relationships get opportunities to do even bigger tasks in this field. So I also hope – as I believe the Christian People's Party hopes – that this with rental-to-own models will be highly focused on the future, because it is a good alternative to fill the gap that we now have between those who manage to enter the housing market with the 15 pst requirement and those who get help through start-up loans. An alternative for this large intermediate group could be to apply a more offensive rental-to-owner scheme than what we can offer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1628	Proposalers point to a major challenge in Norway today, namely the lack of adequate housing supply and overall planning. This is a problem that will receive an overall review of the housing report, which has been notified after Christmas. Norway has just passed five million inhabitants, and the SSB assumes in its population projections that there will be six million inhabitants in Norway in 2029. Such developments will impose major requirements for overall planning both in terms of land management, collective development and walking and cycling paths. There will be major planning requirements both at national, regional and municipal level. Today, four out of five Nordics live in cities or agglomerations, and the strongest growth has been in the Oslo and Akershus regions. Unfortunately, this trend appears to continue. Growth in population and activity is positive, while the large population increase in the Oslo region and in other metropolitan regions creates challenges related to infrastructure, the environment and the scarcity of housing. Changes in housing patterns make substantial demands both for local and regional planning authorities. The pressure on cultivated soil is already high, and it is important to exploit the great potential for densification that exists in most major cities. In the press areas, we need to build closer and higher. At the same time, closeness is not enough, and new housing areas – usually in cooperation with the peripheral municipalities – need to be planned in such a way as to avoid further losses of cultivated land. Not everyone can live in the center, and many want to live more rural and commute into town at work. It is important to see the whole labour market region as a whole. A well-functioning collective offer is a prerequisite for people to live outside the city centre and commute to work. The development of so-called intercity triangle around the largest cities is a prerequisite for reducing the housing pressure in the centre areas. National principles have been laid down for urban and urban development, where new residential and industrial areas are expected to be mainly located along collective and nodal routes. Outside the press areas, more widespread housing should also be provided; this will be necessary to maintain the living space on the outskirts – in any case, depending on the private car for work, kindergarten, etc. The question of whether a State planning guideline should be drawn up under the Planning and Building Act in order to promote adequate housing in press areas, it would be natural to discuss in connection with the notification of housing. The construction of student housing is an educational policy instrument linked to the principle of equal rights to education. Between 2002 and 2005, it was built at the base of 600 student dwellings in the year — in the period 2006 to 2012, it averaged well over 1 000 per year. Even though we've met the goal in Soria Moria of 1,000 student homes a year, there's still a lot of problems every fall to get all the students over their heads. The centre party wants to build even more student homes, especially where the coverage rate is lower. It should be a goal for the State to pay 60 pst in the long term. of the real costs of the construction of student housing. Although we have not found room for prioritising it in this year's budget, I share the proposalers' goal of increasing the number of student homes significantly. I also think we should consider adjusting the upper cost framework to receive grants. The cost of emptying is an increasing proportion of the total cost, and in many study cities it is impossible to keep building costs within the framework. Several student dwellings increase the total housing stock and therefore release apartments for others on the rental market. It is important that the students themselves, through their interactions, stand for construction and receive grants. With regard to the discussion on sound housing-loan practices following the tightening of the guidelines of the Financial Supervisory Authority in December 2011, there is considerable consensus – with the exception of the Progress Party – that there should be an equity requirement. The discussion is whether it should be 10 pst. or 15 pst. High debt makes the family economy vulnerable to interest rate increases and falls in housing prices. The central party considers the level of the equity requirement to be a professional question that the Financial Supervisory Authority is best placed to assess. Therefore, in my view, it is not appropriate to reduce the equity requirement now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1643	We have long lacked an active housing policy in Norway. This has created a heated housing market, an enormous price rise and ever higher thresholds for getting inside. In 2011, 28 000 new dwellings were built despite an estimated annual need of about 2 000 new dwellings. 38 000 dwellings. Such a low level of housing construction will lead to further heating of the housing market. We therefore need to build more dwellings. At the same time, we need to reverse the development of cities and agglomerations that are spreading across large areas in a way that reduces food soil, increases climate emissions and reduces people's quality of life. It must be possible to walk, cycle or use public transport in everyday life as much as possible. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will demand that municipalities ensure more fortification and higher buildings, especially around central collective nodes. An example of follow-up is the Bjørvika construction in Oslo. The State must, on its own, enter into committed partnerships with the municipalities on the development of public transport. In addition, the Christian People's Party wants national policy guidelines that ensure adequate housing in areas with growth pressures. We note that the government parties in the note are in favour of this, that the majority of the committee believes there may be a need for a government planning guideline, and that this needs to be discussed when the housing notification is presented. I expect the government to follow up on this. It is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to enter the housing market. 98 pst. The population aged between 20 and 30 says that they want to own their own housing, but more and more are outside. The Christian People's Party believes that more needs to be done to help young people enter the housing market. We also believe that at least 2,000 new student homes should be built annually to remedy the student's housing situation and facilitate the situation on the rental market in general. I believe that student relations – as a response to the representative from SV – must be organised by the House Bank taking on some of the responsibility. It's possible to organize in such a way that it doesn't necessarily go beyond student democracy. We also say that in our proposal. I also believe that the BSU should be improved. Housing prices have doubled in ten years without the BSU's financial limit being met. 82 pst. of young people between 17 and 34 years of age believe that the current BSU limit of 150 000 kroner is not enough. Not later than the summer, the group manager of DNB, Rune Bjerke, requested that the BSU limit be increased to NOK 300000. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed in its alternative budget to increase the amount limit to DKK 300000 for total savings, DKK 25 000 for annual savings and increased the deduction rate to 28 pst. This would make a big difference for all the young people who are struggling to enter the housing market. This is particularly important in the light of the government’s recent strengthening of the equity requirement to 15 pst. in the case of the purchase of housing, which in isolation appears to be more of a measure to strengthen banks than to facilitate a more efficient housing market. The capital requirement will result in even greater difficulties for more young people and others with a weak economy to enter the housing market and may, as a rule, push young people into the rental market and increase speculation there. There is a need to lower the equity requirement from 15 pst. to 10 pst., i.e. the level before the new increase. The government has announced that there will be a notice of housing policy, and we look forward to it. The Christian People's Party's expectations for the notification are clear: we expect a strategy for increased housing in Norway to avoid the disadvantages of urban sprawl, with the degradation of food soil, increased climate emissions and a deterioration in the quality of life in everyday life. The Christian People's Party believes that action, action and instruments are needed to improve the situation in the housing market. That's our expectation. This is the possibility that the government has, and also the solution to the problem – so simple, but so crucial for so many. Then I will address the suggestions that the Christian People's Party has made in this matter. But in the case of proposal No. 8, after all, it was promoted before the government made changes to the Husbank framework. So the government has actually fulfilled what we have proposed in proposal No. Eight. I do not know exactly how to formally get out of it – whether it is possible to draw the proposal, because it is not necessary to re-promote it. If, however, there is to be an alternative proposal No. 8, it had to be a proposal that contained something like, what did we say?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1662	The latter is already said and will be reproduced in Stortingstidende. The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold has taken up the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in the vote – with the exception of proposal No. 8, which is not taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1667	There are some debates where you really feel like a center party. One of those debates is this one. First I want to boast of the Christian People's Party, which has promoted these proposals. The left will support more of them. But I agree with both the problem that Tetzschner is raising, and the problem that SV is raising. And then I might have a slightly different solution. I think it's a big challenge for both housing and urban development in Norway today that we have a whole bunch of different government agencies, with different state approaches to what's going on. The reason why we have this is that we have some national objectives that we also need to pursue – ranging from soil protection to a logical development related to the balance of housing – industry to, for example, housing. to take care of our cultural heritage in what is the task of the Riksantikvar. In sum, this becomes too demanding for a lot of municipalities, I fully agree with that. However, some of the problem is that municipalities often do not have enough skills to match the huge machinery of the large builders – when it first starts. Therefore, the municipality size is one of the issues here as well. Some municipalities are exposed to builders who are so large and so powerful, and who are also so good lobbyists that they can occasionally put local democracy out of play. Therefore, it is important to have competence in each municipality in the disciplines that we are talking about here. Therefore, it is important to have a competence on soil protection and on site development that is so large that it can also match large builders. In our municipal structure, where some municipalities become housing municipalities, and some municipalities become central municipalities, this is reinforced by the fact that you do not have the ability to see the regions together. That's why I probably wanted bigger municipalities, which would have been more like the housing and labour market we want, so that we could have both the strength in the planning administration and a local democracy that represented the breadth and the whole. I think that would have been the best cure for the fact that today we have a government agency that is far too detailed. I will not give up on this until I know that we have a municipal structure that is able to take care of also more general issues for which we are to be responsible. I have great faith in local democracy. In Oslo City Council, we have our own expression. There are many such parliamentary expressions in Oslo City Council. One of them is: this is a salamander for me. That means that this is something I can't give up on. The term comes from when a large housing project was stopped that was located in a pond with endangered salamanders. The project was stopped by Oslo City Council. Oslo City Council was able to meet the challenges of this room in terms of species diversity. Suffering if I must admit that it was a struggle, the local People's Government was able to take care of it. This is a municipality where it was discovered that there are some national obligations relating to biodiversity, which many other municipalities may never have discovered. As I sailed and fought for the diversity of species in the municipality of Oslo, I experienced that in my small municipality there were some eager souls who drained a completely wet land area and took away all the salamanders from my childhood pond – out of pure joy at making the way up to the cottage a little more dry. Building competences in municipalities is quite important in order to be able to delegate the power that Tetzschner talks about that we should have delegated, and to make the government more alive. I just have to say that we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 2, 3, 6, 8 and 10. But proposal No. 8 is drawn, so let's get rid of it. I'm very sceptical about what the Christian People's Party is proposing, about having the House Bank as the builder of student housing. I think that student relations are well qualified to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1687	The proposed Document 8 deals with major and important issues. Like the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I share the commitment of the proposers to a sustainable housing and urban development policy. A central starting point for the proposals is the growth of the population in Norway in recent years. In 2011, the population increased by over 65,000 people. Thus, 2011 was the year with the highest growth ever measured in the number of people. New statistics from the Statistical Centre suggest that growth will be roughly the same in 2012. I can conclude several of the assessments in the draft representative. It shall apply, inter alia: the expressed concern about the degradation of food soils. We should remember that when we become more people, we also need to produce more food. The submitted document encountered many different problem settings. Several of the proposals are within the responsibility of other Councils. However, I should like to focus a little more on the different perspectives discussed in the document. It is good that the building is on the right track. In the third quarter of the year, the construction of 8,100 dwellings was started, and it was 38 pst. more than in the third quarter of last year. In the first ten months of the year, 25 000 dwellings have been built. We are therefore on track to reach 30,000 new dwellings in the current year. The government is busy running a policy that will keep the pace of building construction up and build enough housing throughout the country. I would like to mention here the government's goal of reducing bureaucracy in construction processes. In the building message I made in the spring, the government warned that several simple construction measures could be implemented without having to search the municipality first. The goal is to reduce the amount of cases by 30 pst. This will allow municipalities to quickly manage their building. I would also like to highlight the importance of seeing the area and transport in context. When I was Minister of Transport, I planned to work together on transport and area between Oslo and Akershus to get good regional solutions. In order to address housing challenges in press areas, the municipalities in question need to cooperate closely. It also involves cooperation on the development of collective provision within the bus, tram and track. I note that the Left's parliamentary leader again takes up municipal structure as the solution to most things that are bad and difficult. I would like to remind you that it is not in the smallest municipalities that this challenge is greatest. In this case, choose the biggest challenges in the largest municipalities. Cooperation between the large municipalities, as we see here in this area, between Oslo, Bærum and several municipalities, is of course important to see how one solves the challenge in a regional perspective. Many of the issues raised by the proposers largely correspond to the basis of the government’s work on these questions. It applies both to increasing the framework to the House Bank, a proposal that is not now forthcoming, because it has already been submitted by the government, and it is not least the government's work on the National Transport Plan's main message. All housing policies shall underpin the principles of sustainable urban, urban and urban development. It'll work, among other things. of national expectations for regional and municipal planning, a document adopted in the 2011 Royal Resolution. National expectations indicate that the government expects new buildings, housing, business premises and workplaces to be located in already existing built areas, along public transport and near collective bargaining points. The question of establishing a state planning line according to the planning and building laws in order to promote adequate housing construction will be discussed in the Housing Policy message. I would also like to remind you that the Minister for the Environment recently sent letters to the statesmen about their role in ensuring adequate housing. It is important for me to stress that we must have confidence in local government powers, which the representative of the Right was also involved in. The connection between land-use planning and transport planning has always been my concern. A more accurate use of land in the connecting points brings more collective travellers and thus greater benefits to society. Since the government took over in 2005, this has been a priority area, not least rail development. The government, through the climate agreement, has taken steps to ensure that the growth of transport needs is achieved through environmentally friendly transport. It is therefore necessary to focus more on public transport, both through cooperation between municipalities and through the clear responsibility of the State for which it is responsible. Finally, I note that the government has doubled the expansion of student housing to 1000 per year. We will continue this development, but it should be done under the responsibility of those responsible today, and not be moved from Student Cooperation to Husbanken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1717	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1720	One of the issues raised in this proposal for a representative is the new equity requirement of the Financial Supervisory Authority, which says that a non-borrower cannot borrow more than 85 pst. for housing purposes. But then, in addition, if DNB borrows 85 pst, then the House Bank can borrow 15 pst through the initial loan. So it's 100 pst. loans. That's when I fall off a little bit. DNB can't borrow 100 pst, but it's okay that DNB borrow 85 pst. and Husbanken 15 p.p. I can't understand that 100 pst. loans from two borrowers are more defensive than 100 pst. loans from one borrower. I would like to think that the Council of State explains this, as I do not understand how this is related.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1725	Looking at the situation in Norwegian households today, on average, each household has a debt that is more than twice the average income. There is a historically high level, and in view of the streamlined financial supervision in 2011 in the direction of getting an even more defensive lending practice for housing purposes. Starting loans are, on its side, an important tool for young people to help, not least, those with difficulty entering the housing market. Start-up loans are subject to a special defence assessment and are made in the municipalities. In addition, banks do an extra assessment of those who get this loan. It applies to people who would otherwise have problems getting into the housing market, and who would not be able to finance it themselves in the longer term. But it is therefore subject to a specific defence assessment, and we have little loss of start-up loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1730	I allow myself to follow up on the same track as the previous replicator. It's now one year since you increased the equity requirement by 50 pst, from 10 to 15 percent points, overnight. As we approach the end of 2012, the price increase in the housing prices this year is estimated to be approximately. 7 pst. So it's obvious that this has had no effect on prices. Since it does not, I allow myself to ask questions about whether the Council of State sees other positive aspects of this scheme, when we get reports from the financial industry that this means that many young families who in themselves are in good employment have to postpone their housing plans. Is the Council of State satisfied with that regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1735	It is important for me to make it clear that that action is not under my Ministry, it is under the Ministry of Finance, and the Minister of Finance should actually answer that question. What matters to me, as a housing policy manager, is that everyone should have access and opportunity to either rent or buy their own dwelling. That's why I've been very busy with how the start-up loan works with loans from private institutions, so that everyone can finance their own housing. We see that it has our growth in demand for start-up loans. This may indicate that, following the tightening of the Financial Supervisory Authority’s guidelines, more people will need start-up loans as additional funding. The question I ask myself about the repeated question is: Would the Right go across the Financial Supervisory Board's strong recommendations if the Right put in government? I'm not sure that the Right would have done that, as I know the game from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1740	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for having shown goodwill in relation to our representative proposal, and I hope that we can see some of this again in the housing notice when it is submitted. The Council of State also discussed this with student homes and felt that the responsibility for it should remain with us today. What I am stunning about is that you can create so watertight bulkheads between different bodies that you can't take advantage of the potential that can lie in cooperation between Student Cooperation and the Husbanken, for which the Council of State is responsible. This is – at least it can be – contributing to us having as low a rate of expansion of student housing as we have. So this proposal is not meant to underestimate or do anything about student democracy, but rather is a proposal to exploit each other's competences, thus creating synergies. I am surprised that this is not being looked on with greater goodwill.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1747	I'm open to looking at all the suggestions that are good, but it's not that there are close shots between the different instances today. Although the Student Association welcomes the development of student housing in the first row, it is the Husbank that manages the student housing schemes on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge. They also advise the Ministry of Knowledge on the distribution of credits. In addition, there is a very close and good cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the House Bank and the Student Association on how to develop this important field further. We have regular work meetings several times a year, and I think that through that cooperation and the zeal that it is in Student Cooperation to expand – because they are drivers – I actually believe we have the best organization as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1752	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1757	I would like to address a comment from the Right and the Advance Party on this matter. They say that they are not against dense and taller construction, but that local democracy is well enough fit to plan for this. There is a total short-circuit in the view of what sustainable urban development planning is all about. Planning in the municipalities does not take place in a vacuum. In national expectations for regional and local planning, the government has made a political priority and has asked municipalities and places emphasis on climate and energy, urban and urban development, transport and infrastructure, value creation and industrial development, nature, cultural environment and landscape, health, quality of life and the growing environment. So it's not going to go beyond local democracy, on the contrary. The Norwegian planning system is based on confidence that local elected representatives are able to take good care of these concerns. Local and regional competences are important to ensure local tailoring, based on local challenges, and coordinated planning across local borders. Now discussions about planning can easily become a theoretical exercise. I would therefore like to refer to an example from my own region. Unlike Oslo and Akershus, where there is a planned collaboration, cooperation in the Busker suburb is voluntary. It is about a climate-friendly development of land and transport in the urban area from Lier to Kongsberg, anchored in a long-term cooperation agreement between ten parties – five municipalities, county councils, county councils, state road authorities, railway and coastal works. The Ministry of Transport contributes rewards. The objective is a common spatial and transport plan 2013-2023, for the fastest growing urban area in the large Oslo region, with a growth of 43 pst. from 2012 to 2040. The overall strategy identifies six regional development areas. They agree that they have the potential to develop both housing, workplaces and centre functions and that they have a railway station. No one shall claim that cooperation is painless, but the parties agree that if a common roof for land and transport is not now taken, the region will be in an unsustainable situation, with strong growth in car traffic, increasing cows and climate emissions, reduced competitiveness for industry and reduced environmental quality, with less attractive cities and agglomerations. Decisions are to be taken in each municipality, but none of them will be able to do so alone. This goes hand in hand with the ten bids of the Minister for the Environment for Norwegian urban planning, but the five municipalities, the county council and the others did not really need the Minister for the Environment to tell them. They got it all by themselves and took the consequences of it locally. It is possible that the representative Tetzschner has experience from Oslo with plans that end up in the drawer, but it is not my experience in that city and the region I come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1770	A large population growth is a gift. It's unfavorable for the nation, because that's where our national wealth is. The national wealth is not in the oil fund, or the State pension fund abroad, as it is called. It's not in the values of the oil and gas that's in the ground, or minerals for that matter. About 85 pst. of our national wealth is the value of our future work. Therefore, immigration, which is the driver of our population growth, is primarily a good thing for the nation. People are a resource. I took the floor because, first of all, I want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party, which has taken up a number of suggestions and problematized a whole range of aspects of how we build cities and towns. They have a broad approach to the issue and thus have a number of proposals that they promote in the light of their policies. Unfortunately, this debate has not been affected. I think the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right have a very narrow approach to this problem. They reduce it to a question of some technicalities, and the representative of Tetzschner has in his usual way addressed Solhjell's letter to the municipalities, where he has made it clear that government agencies also have a responsibility to ensure that municipalities take part in the responsibility for addressing housing challenges. It's not an obstacle to housing. On the contrary, it is an instrument for building more housing, because – it is true – there are many municipalities that do not exploit the potential and that do not have the competence to plan well enough. This means that the State and the regional authorities must also help to do so. Much of the representative Skei Grande took up from the pulpit, I agree. I think that was a balanced contribution, where she pointed out that it is actually a challenge for both state, regional and local authorities to plan and implement plans in such a way that we, as a whole – the nation and the community – get out of it well. It's a demanding exercise, but it's possible where you actually bet and dare to take some roof. The Committee has been on its way to Westfold, which is one example of how it can be done, where the state and regional authorities, by County Lae, who has taken the initiative, have cooperated well. It was voluntary cooperation with regional authorities and with local authorities in order to achieve a solution that could all be reconciled. We heard from previous examples from the city of Busker, where there have also been voluntary planning, and there are many examples of this. But when the committee travels around, we discover that there are many people around the whole country who are not sufficiently familiar with the possibilities of coordinating planning and the means to use it. It's a challenge we're going to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1786	I think it has been a good debate so far and can establish that there is a great deal of consensus on the understanding of reality, but we very much disagree on solutions. The representative, Hagesetter, blames the state for low housing and unreservedly states that the municipalities are innocent. It's a strange and a little bit surprising plan-economic thinking from that team. If the state is to blame, then the state must also have all credit for the buildings being built. Or is it that the municipalities have no honor for us to be on the right track now? It would dress the Progress Party and the Hageseter to admit that both the State and the municipality have a responsibility. Municipalities must take – and actually take – responsibility for housing, regulate land for housing purposes, build infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, roads, etc., and ensure an active land policy. And the state must, of course, ensure good framework conditions, and that is what we are discussing, among other things. Here today. Some words about fortification. In words, all are for dense and increased housing. Unfortunately, some factors are drawing in the opposite direction, including: land prices and a desire to live in a rural environment. Although there is a broad consensus on this, we see that many local decisions are going in the opposite direction. I will give the Christian People's Party honor to use Bærum as an example. We agree with the criticism raised against the regulation plan for Fornebu, where it is expanded with low housing density and a weak collective offer. The state may influence, but the municipalities must actually also take their share of the responsibility. Briefly about the equity requirement. I am amazed at the attitude of the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party towards this. Why is a claim of 10 pst. Okay, but a claim of 15 pst. completely unacceptable? What is the Christian People's Party's knowledge of the stability of financial markets that the Financial Supervisory Authority does not know? What do they know about the degree of indebtedness of Norwegian households that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority does not know? Finally, it's great that the Christian People's Party is occupied with rent for its own. Then I would just encourage the Christian People's Party, which is actually in position in both Oslo and Bergen, to take the initiative for rental-to-own projects where they have political responsibility and where the needs are greatest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1801	It was Lise Christoffersen's posts that made me draw again, because she said something about local democracy, and then she went over to all the government's excellent priorities. The problem is that she sets it as a special quality goal that the local local government does just as the government wants. It's not exactly the purpose or purpose of or the spirit of local self-government. Then she goes to an example collection from her own state, where she also says that voluntary cooperation works well. Yes, but that's when I say: So great – great! It shows that reason is also represented at levels of government other than the state, and that's exactly what's our point. So it's also a paradox that here you have incredible ambitions and detailed perceptions of how the municipalities should use their planning authority, but in areas where the state itself has a responsibility, for example, is. the railway operation not on a route, to use an expression that railway users will recognize. So 15 years after the intercity triangle was adopted, one boasts that one is still planning a double track for Ski, and then one refers to a few peripheral sections that have already received double tracks. There had been nothing in the way that the government had overfulfilled these plans. This is a state that they run 100 pst. And they don't depend on a single local government. It would have turned a little bit if the government had followed up their own plans, and that's the plans I'm aiming for, representative Lise Christoffersen, not that I have experience that Oslo doesn't have plans they don't implement. To Hauglie, who questions rhetorically: What is the Right and Christian People's Party know, as the Financial Supervisory Authority does not know about the difference between 10 p.m. and 10 p.m. and 15 pst. equity? So if you start with ordinary tenants and look at it a little bit from the ground level, it's a difference of 50 pst. It was an intensification from one day to the other a year ago, without any impact on prices. What this actually leads to is that people have to postpone their housing dreams. But if you can argue that you're an even worse payer than the banks would normally lend, you can get 100 pst. funding — that is, without security at all. It is not a matter of intervention if you are afraid of a build-up of debt in households. We still believe that what is slowing down the building, much is the plank, unwise use of objection and the fact that you are strutting the first time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1814	The reason I took the floor was the representative Håkon Haugli, who showed that the Progress Party had said that the municipalities do not have a responsibility or a debt. What we said was that it's the state that has the primary responsibility for housing construction and that it's not being built enough housing in Norway. Initially, the government has a responsibility and the municipalities have a responsibility. The point is that municipalities take their responsibility, and they also show a strong willingness to regulate housing and to start building around the country. But one encounters strong opposition from the state. One has 22 state agencies, which aim to stop building and make a deposit. One has no national government agency to promote housing. One has also shown a great deal of enthusiasm for detailed management in recent years, both in terms of planning processes and in terms of housing requirements. Energy efficiency requirements, universal design, etc., have resulted in too little housing today. Had one not had this detailed management and the eagerness of the state to intervene in natural processes in the municipalities, more housing had been built than today. Håkon Haugli was also involved with this with 15 pst. and 10 pst. equity. In fact, the Financial Supervisory Authority’s equity assessment of 15 p.m. equity is not absolute. It's completely possible to borrow 100 pst. Some, e.g. borrows 85 pst. from DNB, a loan can be 15 pst. from the House Bank. Then this is not a problem at all, but if one had borrowed more than 85 pst. from one bank, e.g. DNB, this would be a big problem. The municipal minister here says that this start-up loan makes a special treatment and assessment in the municipalities. Well, if the Council of State believes that the banking assessment that takes place in the 429 municipalities is better than the one that is, for example. Find a location in DNB, get the council to believe it, but at least it doesn't believe in the Progress Party. We believe that the banks are the ones that are best able to assess whether it makes sense to give loans or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1823	I am pleased with this last article from Gjermund Hagesetter, because there is a recognition in the post that both the State and the municipality have a responsibility. I think everyone in this room should be concerned that both the state and the municipality take responsibility in the best possible way. As I said, I am pleased that the Progress Party has moved on from the first post, where the state was responsible, and the municipalities had no responsibility. Back to the representative Bekkevold, who I see is drawing now: he firmly struck with a wide pen that we have lacked an active housing policy. Does the Christian People's Party really believe that the problem of housing policy lies here in this Chamber? Could the slowdown we received as a result of the international financial crisis have been counteracted by decisions taken here in the Chamber? In that case, I would like to know what measures could be taken to prevent this slowdown. Can we from the Christian People's Party at least get a recognition that record-breaking municipal housing, record-breaking student housing and a record-high level of housing support are expressions that we actually have a housing policy, and then we can move on from that type of trenching tank? A little bit about the equity requirement and the starting loan: it kind of surprises me what is being said here from the pulpit. Initial loans are granted by municipalities following a specific rating, as explained by the Council of State. One important part of this is that the State and the municipality take part of the risk that the private borrower would otherwise have to take. It is worth remembering that the default rate for initial loans is actually lower than for ordinary commercial bank loans. Finally, I just want to say that the problem with some of the proposals that are being promoted here today is that they, under the heading of building more dwellings, do not address it at all. Even if we were to increase the BSU framework or raise the equity requirements, there won't be any more dwellings. Some people live in all Norwegian homes. If more people are to have a place to live, more homes need to be built, and it should be the main focus of our debates on housing policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1834	I also took the floor on the basis of Håkon Haugli's articles. Of course, this is very good, but it is a recognition that it is not done enough, either from this room, as one chooses to provide a separate biggest message on housing policy. In it there is a recognition that there is a need for a more active and ongoing policy, including on the part of the government and the Stortinge. The representative, Håkon Haugli, asks for an answer from the Christian People's Party on what we see, which the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority does not see. I did well to clarify, in my post, what we think about this strengthening of the equity requirement from 10 p.m. to 15 p.m., which in isolation seems more like a measure to strengthen banks, rather than facilitating a more efficient housing market. Bjørn Erik Eye in the Forecast Center has among other things. stated that the government’s 15 p.m. rule for equity in the purchase of housing is ‘visionless, and guided by older men who pull up the ladder afterwards’. What we're afraid of is that the equity requirement will lead to even more young people and others with a weak economy having even bigger problems getting into the housing market. The rule can also push young people into a rental market and increase speculation there, rather than actually taking on what is the biggest investment in life, namely getting their own housing. Therefore, we believe that this increase was unnecessary, and that the requirement should be 10 pst., as it were, before it was increased overnight to 15 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1845	Just a few things. I think that post number two from Tetzschner and Hageseter just confirms that we have a completely different starting point in terms of local and regional planning. When Tetzschner says that national expectations for local and regional planning do not correspond to the ‘spirit of local self-government’, I completely disagree with that. In the context of the preparation of new planning and building laws, the municipalities themselves expressed a desire for a more predictable state, a wish that the state should at regular intervals take up the debate and add some overall national expectations to local and regional planning. So we're pretty far apart in view of it. As I said in my first post: in my region, we cooperate voluntarily, while in Oslo, we have to cooperate, so it also helps to illustrate that here we might have a slightly different starting point. When the representative Gjermund Hagesett refers to the state as crawling into the local processes, it also testifies to a completely different starting point. From my point of view, the municipalities should invite the state, because that's what makes the best results. In this way, the financial side of the country is also easier for one, not primarily by getting more money, but because one then gets better coordination of the use of State instruments in a defined geographical area such as a municipality or region, and it produces much faster results than if one body sits and waits for the other and never starts anything. Then I also have the impression that the self-employment requirement of which the Financial Supervisory Authority has imposed an increase is in a way being made the main problem of housing policy. Some of the points of that were also the high level of debt and the spread of risk, because we have seen some dangerous situations elsewhere, and it may be possible to prevent similar events in Norway. I do not think it is the equity requirement that destroys young people's opportunities in the housing market, but also the fact that housing policy has been allowed to take place for too long on market and community premises. And so it wasn't the current majority who in time provided for the conversion of housing policy, which is the root of what we see today for a number of groups who have difficulties getting into the housing market. Then this majority wants to take action, and it comes in the discussion about the housing announcement. We need to be stronger on the track. The market is unable to do that job on its own – or will not take that job on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1856	I'll be brief. I have been specifically challenged by the Christian People's Party. What is left of this debate is: how are these proposals being promoted to actually contribute to increased housing? Are there more dwellings changing the equity requirement and increasing the BSU framework? I do not think we have received a good answer to that. With regard to the equity requirement completely isolated, I allow myself to wonder whether the Christian People's Party, and to the extent that the other parties, would have the same attitude if they were in government. Is it true that the views of the Financial Supervisory Authority are completely immaterial and that those sitting in this Chamber know better by definition? Where's the limit going? There is agreement that there should be an equity requirement, and it is an independent objective that we have stability in financial markets. It is actually important and something I think Stortinget should not germinate off. Then I'm glad that Bekkevold says that we actually have a housing policy, because that's not what he said in his first post, because then he struck with a wide pen that we didn't have. Now he says that the government acknowledges that more needs to be done. That's right, of course. We are concerned that we should provide a housing message with good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1867	The representative, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1870	I also think it is great that the government acknowledges that more needs to be done. As I see it, the Christian People's Party's representative proposal is a contribution in this way, which I actually think the red-green parties have accepted in a constructive and good way, and almost expressed that much of what we are proposing, we will actually find in the housing announcement. So I find it a little strange that the debate has changed, both in tone and character, because now I get the impression that the Christian People's Party is all over the world. To the equity requirement: No, in isolation it is not certain that this is the most dramatic, but when you propose such a change without remedial action, I believe that this can be a brake block, both in terms of housing construction, and of course in relation to the ability of young people to enter the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1877	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1891	I will not add to a long debate on the ageing of the current year's budget, but I would like briefly to comment on the majority comment on the implementation of the cooperation reform. From 1 January this year, the Cooperation Reform – a major task transfer to Norwegian municipalities, which has been carried out in close cooperation between the municipal sector and the state. It includes a transfer of funds of the order of 5 billion. kr to the municipalities. Here, as with all the major reforms, it is impossible to predict in advance what all the results will be, so the government parties have repeatedly warned that this reform should be followed closely and carefully both from the government and, of course, from this Chamber. Then it is that we have a prognosis that suggests that there can be an over-consumption related to municipal co-financing of approx. 200 million. kr in 2012. It's impossible to get an idea of what this is actually going to be at this point in time. That bill shall be settled retrospectively and shall be completed, as an estimate, once in February. Then we get back to it – when the final calculation is on the table. However, in this context, it is also relevant to point out that the local government sector has retained significantly greater tax revenues than they have received in the past, so in this respect there is coverage in municipalities to pay for it, if there is any additional consumption. But we're going to follow up on what we've said. We need to follow the reform closely, and we need to do so in close cooperation with the local government sector. The first opportunity to return to the potential additional consumption will be in the context of the revised national budget or the municipal proposition for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1904	I shall not start a long debate on this new era, but I note that the Kingdom of Norway is doing well. We've got an extra surplus of almost 40 billion. kr, to a total surplus in the current year of nearly 390 billion. kr. That means we have well over 1 billion. kr in excess of 24 hours and nearly 1 million. kr in excess per minute, which is then transferred to the oil fund. That is why we have allowed ourselves to make a few suggestions on this matter. The only thing that has already been said about is the interaction reform, where the municipalities have not been fully compensated. They're missing on the contrary about. 2 billion. kr for being fully financed by the State. Then we also have a proposal that goes into exceptional damage related to flooding damage in 2012. I would like to present the suggestions of the Progress Party in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1913	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1930	I just want to refer to the comments made by the Progress Party in the matter, and clarify the importance of getting a return job that works in a good way. It is important for the legitimacy of the asylum institution that those who are refused their asylum applications be returned as soon as possible. Not least, it is important that those who have illegal residence in Norway are traced, found and sent back to their country of origin. The progress party believes it has a relevance, and we think it is important to focus on just this. That is why we are promoting our proposal. I would like to make it clear that the Advance Party does not oppose the changes in the crown and ear submitted by the government, but that we are also promoting the proposal we have in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1935	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1951	I'll be brief. I refer you to the comments made by the Progress Party on the matter, and I would like to promote the proposals we have put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1956	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1972	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1984	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e1998	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2012	There are major changes in the Ministry of Labour's budget, but it is no more than natural, since there are so many large numbers we operate with. I asked for the word to put the spotlight on the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund. The main tariff agreement in the State provides that housing loans may be granted up to a maximum of 1,7 million. kr from the State pension fund. Loans are granted to provide housing or to refinance housing loans, and the security is within 80 pst. the market value of the dwellings. The maximum repayment period is 30 years, where 5 years may be non-deductible. The interest on housing loans in the State pension fund follows the normal interest rate for reasonable loans in employment and the interest rate is as of 1 November in the year 2,227 p.m. So this is a very favourable arrangement. The volume was 42,7 billion at the end of 2011. kr – an increase of close to 27 pst. from the previous year. It is close to 47 000 loans – an increase of close to 14 pst. Since it concerns public employees, government councils and depositors are also included in the scheme, and 9 government councils and 94 central government representatives benefited from the scheme in 2011. What's interesting is there's a significant growth in both the number of borrowers and the amount. In 2011, the net capital requirement was expected to be 9 billion. kr. In 2012, it was budgeted with a capital requirement of 8 billion. kr. In the revised budget, it was estimated at 9 billion. kr, and the current capital requirement is a total of EUR 15,8 billion. kr. There is a sub-budgeting on loans, and there is a overbudgeting on repayment, which is quite natural when we know the economic circumstances in Norway today. What we have budgeted for next year is a capital requirement of 12 billion. So it's going to be close to $4 billion. kr less than what now appears to be accounting figures for 2012. It is important to have the light on this. The Norwegian economy is today, and with the demands and conditions of this scheme, there is an expansive increase in both the number of billions of dollars and people participating in the scheme. Therefore, I would like to say that there is a need to look at the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund at the next main tariff agreement for government employees. In general, it must be important for the government to dampen the growth of loans. One must also dampen the public subsidisation of those who lend to housing, for here there is a dissociation between those who benefit from the scheme and those who do not have, or are in a situation, to benefit from it. Therefore, I would like to ask that both the Ministry of Consumer and Administration and the Ministry of Finance reduce the attractiveness of such schemes in general and for the State pension fund in particular. These reduced subsidies must then be included in the negotiations and collective bargaining agreements in a manner that allows for the benefit of other appropriate means, for example through increased remuneration for those in this situation. So there's a need to look at this carefully. There is a need to see whether a person should not raise normal interest rates in employment. There is also a need to consider whether the lending customers should not pay for the administration of the housing loan scheme. There's a need at all to look at this system in the situation we're in. It is, as I said, a growth in the system that is far, far larger than it is budgeted for – in all ways – and it is a disparity in who gets into it. Here is a job to do in the coming main tariff agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2031	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2045	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2051	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2452	In the course of the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a broad assessment of the legal certainty of taxpayers and to provide measures to ensure better legal certainty for taxpayers than at present.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2479	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose the necessary legislative changes in the tax law § 4-22 so that persons with a disability down to 15 pst. exempt from property taxes on the amount of compensation.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to the Tax Act to exempt from property taxes the assets which compensate for serious damage and are managed by the Oversight Authority, for children under 18 years of age.’; Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2513	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Left, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal sounds. ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals, in the context of the revised national budget for 2013, that employer paid monthly cards should not lead to the taxation of employees’ benefits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2543	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:132 S [[2011-2012]] The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Left will now support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2567	During the debate, Borghild Tenden has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to clarify and, if necessary, to make proposals for amendments to the tax legislation on professional cars in order to facilitate compliance with the rules for both tax authorities, businesses and individual taxpayers. The following elements are taken into account in the work: Change the tax legislation on the taxation of the benefits of a professional car so that tax payers cannot be taxed more than the actual journey distance multiplied by a kilometre rate if the journey book is used. Remove the requirement to use a different car from the one you dispose of for daily occasional use. Define in concrete terms how much driving can be accepted as occasional use in a year. Incentives for the use of driving books for cars used in the profession and disposed of by the employer. More clearly define the concept of ‘small suitable’ for private use’. Alternatively, this proposal is voted between the Committee’s decision and the Committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2629	During the debate, the representative Gunnar Gundersen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce a sample to assess the dynamic effects of tax reductions in the short and long term. The committee's investigation is presented as a matter of its own to the Stortinget.' Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2656	On this point, ten proposals have been made in the vote. During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 2–7 and 9 and 10, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party The President noted that proposal No. 8 is not taken up. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Financial Supervisory Board’s proposals on equity requirements become advisory and not binding on banks.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2684	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that, in the interests of soil protection, the environment and social capital, more dense and higher urbanisation are required, in particular around the centre of collective bargaining, and that the State enters into committed partnerships with the municipalities for the development of public transport. Local government housing and urban development policies need to provide a clearer framework, but also better state support for public transport.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2703	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the national transport plan prioritises the development of transport systems that are necessary to turn the pattern of development towards the central public hub in cities and agglomerations and towards central areas with opportunities for development with smaller conflicts of land’.» The right and left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2720	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a collective strategy focusing on the major cities, in close cooperation with them.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2737	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to tighten up the national policy provision on stopovers so that only new shopping centres in urban centres, urban centres and relief areas can be planned at public nodes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2752	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the construction of at least 2000 new student housing annually and that the government considers that the State’s share of the costs should be increased.’ The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2769	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to transfer responsibility for the expansion of student housing to the Husbanken to ensure more efficient development. The student housing policy is maintained by student association organisations.’» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2785	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the equity requirement for the purchase of the dwelling is reduced from 15 to 10 pst. in order to help initial start-ups have the opportunity to purchase a dwelling.’» The right has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2805	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the ‘Leie pre-self’ scheme is made into a national scheme to ensure that disadvantaged persons are able to enter the housing market.’ The right has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e2842	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that correct figures are provided on what the local government sector has become and has not been compensated for in the context of the interaction reform, so that the local government sector is not charged with higher sustainable operating costs and non-recurring costs that may impair municipal welfare production.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit the necessary proposals, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, to ensure that the cooperation reform does not end as a result of a lack of financial resources.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the many farmers most affected by the flood damage in 2012 do not suffer unnecessary financial losses and that the most severely affected municipalities are fully compensated for their extraordinary costs of the damage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e3198	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of progress in returning asylum seekers with rejection and return of refugees, and for what measures can be implemented to ensure that progress in this work is not unduly delayed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e3487	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Advancement Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an administrative audit of the implementation of the introduction programme.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the new system with direct allocation of funds to national resource environments in the field of integration’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e7219	It's going to wrestle over you, cap. 634. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e7234	It's all over you, all the other chapters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e7248	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-17.ana.ud707e7260	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
