ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e49	The representative Knut Storberget, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. They called for alternates, for West Agder County Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn and for Northernland County Knut Petter Torgersen, have taken the seat. The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e65	I am delighted to present a proposal by the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Oskar J. Grimstad, Torgeir Tjäldal, Tone Liljeroth and myself to call on the Russian authorities to clean up Norilsk Nickel.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e70	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e84	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e95	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and comprehensive statement that was made here in Stortinget on 29 May. From the right, we wanted to get this statement now – these Afghanistan statements have been kept in the Storting at some irregular intervals. The reason why we wanted to have it now was simply that we are in a very critical phase where it is very important that attention and focus are kept in the final phase. In fact, the time we are now going into – with a very severe downturn and gradually an outflow combined with national political processes in Afghanistan – will require increased attention and involvement from ISAF countries. We know that for various reasons, several countries have already turned their attention away from Afghanistan and to other areas and other conflicts. We're on the threshold of a period where a lot of things can go wrong if it goes down. This applies to both military and political. The ISAF countries need to create a credible and feasible plan that is more than just about leaving. Norway shall have the majority of Norwegian forces out of Afghanistan as early as October this year, and it may potentially represent greater challenges than it provides solutions, because the reduction is a highly complex logistical operation with significant risks. I'll get back to that a little bit. The period after 2014 is also going to be very demanding for all those who are going to have a civil and military presence in Afghanistan of some kind. It is essential for NATO’s credibility and legitimacy that Afghanistan does not fall into chaos after 2014. There must not be a free haven for terrorism again, nor must it be in such a way that the authorities can continue to contribute to and, in part, accept violations of human rights. The Minister of Foreign Affairs highlighted three defining processes in his speech: military engagement, civil development cooperation and the search for a political solution between all Afghan groups. I want to link some considerations and assessments to these processes, including: based on the travel of the Foreign and Defence Committee to Kabul, Meymaneh and Mazar-e-Sharif in mid-March. We had very substantial discussions throughout the spectrum, with Norwegian and international military forces and leadership, NGOs, UNAMA, prominent Afghan ministers and parliamentarians, the provincial governor of Faryab – as many in this room know well – and not least important human rights champions such as Sima Samar. This journey, together with a similar journey the Committee made two years ago, provides a good background to see developments over some time, while at the same time seeing the challenges today and forward. The Committee made it clear to the Afghan authorities that Norway has a long-term involvement in the country. It started before 2001, and it extends beyond 2014. The reason we went in with our allies, under a clear UN mandate and at the invitation of the Afghan authorities, was to prevent the country from once again becoming a haven for international terrorism. Contributing to the construction of a more stable Afghan society is an important factor in ensuring this, but that is not why we are in Afghanistan. The right has always been clear about it, and at the same time it has been clear that it is difficult to base our Western democracy as a yardstick for the development of Afghanistan. This does not mean, however, that we should not have expectations, that we should not make demands – on the contrary – but now much is about making the situation manageable in such a way that Afghan authorities can again take responsibility for security and development. There are many positive signs in Afghanistan: more children go to school, and many of them are girls. Several women take higher education, and there has been a significant decline in maternal and child mortality in recent years. However, the challenge is to get Afghan authorities to report on what is going well and that is positive. Their perception and fear are that reporting developments that are moving in the right direction will stop giving money to donor countries because the needs have changed. Western donors see this quite the opposite: we are dependent on being able to report back on things that produce results, in order to justify a major aid effort. The Koran burning in March this year gave significant challenges to the international presence, above all to the Americans. The killing of 16 civilians in Kandahar just after reinforced it further, and many observers believe that these two events together constituted a very dangerous potential situation. There is now widespread political positioning ahead of the presidential elections in 2014, with many actors and many agendas, and, as usual in Afghanistan, alliances are very changing. Still, there is some tension about whether Karzai holds the promise to resign as President after 2014. In the middle of all this internal positioning and power play, it is important to recognise that Afghanistan is a country where many neighbouring countries are also fighting for influence. The direction taken by the countries in the region is therefore of great importance. Working with regional partners is very important, and a significant challenge is the border — or one might say the lack of border — between Pakistan and Afghanistan and the rivalry between India and Pakistan about influence in Afghanistan. The coincidence in time between the completion of the transition, the extraction of ISAF forces and the election of a new President is at best demanding. I think I'm tracking a little bit more realism now than two years ago, and it's obvious that it's really gone up for the Afghans that it's now happening in terms of the transition. This time had to come sometime. Whether it starts now or had started in two years, I'm not sure the Afghans would be so much more or less clear than they are now. The transition is described by some people who are overly focused on the military and perhaps little on the civil. Several politicians and human rights activists are careful to stress that Western donors and Western countries that are to be involved in Afghanistan must focus on the institutions and not on the individuals. The main focus in Afghanistan has now also been on reaching strategic cooperation agreements after 2014. Both Germany and the United States have signed agreements and Norway has also negotiated an agreement. There is great concern that human rights, and especially women's rights, are a negotiating card in the talks and negotiations with the Taliban. The relatively fragile laws and changes that have occurred quickly come into play again. As we stressed when we met in Afghanistan, women's rights are human rights. Ulema Shura, the council of religious leaders who met when we were there, expressed at that meeting very alarming attitudes to women's rights and very alarming attitudes to the general view of women. The report on Sunday, during which one of the Council leaders was interviewed, confirms this picture. It is extremely important that human rights, civil society and good governance are not removed from the agenda of the Tokyo meeting in July – there should be a big donor meeting there. There is also some concern that the term ‘Afghanian well enough’ should be established and contribute to a reduction in the list in terms of democracy, good governance, women’s rights and human rights. Norwegian organisations and civil coordinators in Afghanistan are doing very well and have done so for decades. There will always be major challenges both for countries and for organisations, and one of the major challenges in Afghanistan is the lack of adequate civil coordination. At the same time, it is a maritime dilemma in a country such as Afghanistan that our presence in many ways build structures that disappear on the day the organisations withdraw, or in some context establish parallel structures to Afghan capacities. A very large proportion of the Afghan economy is assisted. The challenges will be some major as we move on to a new phase. In addition, it is a further challenge that some countries have linked their economic efforts to where they are present in the military. On the one hand, money will disappear with the dwindling of military forces, and on the other hand, money will not necessarily be distributed and channelled to areas where the need for development is greater. On the right, the Minister for Foreign Affairs supports the fact that Norwegian aid will continue to be substantial and will be given under clear conditions. Among other things, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear that it would have to be possible to adjust if the development of human rights, governance and equality were to go the wrong way. There has been some significant criticism of the work and role of the UN in Afghanistan. In fact, the UN is the only one with strength and legitimacy enough to actually coordinate development work. Criticism has also come to organisations in Norway that channel a lot through, such as UNDP. Human rights activists are now reporting a significant reduction in UN involvement. We met the UN's local leader in Mazar-e-Sharif, and I guess I could say that the impression was that he wasn't particularly active, but as he said, the UN is now playing an active observation role. The mandate of UNAMA was renewed by the Security Council in March now. The new thing is that the UN should play a clearer role in the 2014 elections and also focus on an Afghan-led process and Afghan ownership. The World Bank is crystal clear that corruption is a big problem. However, an equal challenge to follow Afghan priorities and to use Afghan channels is also a lack of capacity to absorb the money. More money into the system now will not necessarily be spent on roads, hospitals and schools, as you would wish. Today there are significant challenges to capacity, and it will continue to be so in the future. Several organisations and politicians are asking that Western donors focus on the long-term projects of good governance and human rights and not just run after the short-term projects. Similarly, the need for real empowerment of women and not just projects that teach women to work in barbershops and other things, which are relatively short-sighted, is underlined. Provincial Governor Abdul Haq Shafaq of Faryab underlined that there are also ways to do so that are not so extensive. These may include grants for training for women abroad. It could be about building student homes, student homes – things that are practical, but that can make a big difference. It is positive that we see clear trends in increasing pressures from grassroots in the development of human rights and women's rights. Now people are talking about it. You stand out in the media. Several people talk about both rapes and assaults. Harassment is more often reported, and there is a high level of activity on social media — especially from young men, interestingly enough. There are many articles in the media, and it is also positive that there are more and more media to print the articles in.Ulema Shura, the religious council, is challenged and debated. It's a promising sign. A growing number of women’s organizations are emerging. It's not just single members, but we see an increasingly clear organisation of work. The Foreign Minister highlighted the issue of corruption. Corruption is associated with very low political risk in Afghanistan, and few or none are held accountable. The finance minister has tried to clean up, but this has of course led to him becoming a rather unpopular man far into the government. There are few reactions that rulers and warlords take out tens of millions of dollars through, among other things. Aerodrome in Kabul. New rules are coming, but few people believe in some specific implementation of those rules. The World Bank estimates that in 2025 there will be a gap of at least 25 pst. between revenue and expenditure of the Afghan State budget. Several opposition politicians have noted that Western countries’ aid funds are used to support ‘errors’ people and help maintain a corrupt regime. This will be a problem in very many countries where Norway is present. But it is now time that all donors had to deal with the choices a country has made. This is where the dilemma often lies. They're talking about democracy, but we're not always as excited about the results of that democracy. One of the important points of the Minister of Foreign Affairs – which I also support – is that still Norwegian civil engagement and presence must address the corruption challenge. I look forward to the evaluation that will come a little later, and I believe it is important that the results of this evaluation have implications for the size and arrangement of our long-term civil assistance exposure. At the same time, it is important to remember that when, as a donor country, we demand anti-corruption and the fight against corruption is actually taking place, and the authority in Afghanistan is going after money allocations in order to expose corruption, our only answer cannot be that our contributions are absent. Mechanisms must be established to reward the pursuit of corruption, while obviously corruption must have consequences. It is very important to recognise the efforts of Norwegian forces in Afghanistan over very many years. I think perhaps the Foreign Minister was a little early when he thanked those who had served, because it is still to be served for a long time in Afghanistan. We're going to have an engagement there still. Those who have served, those who serve, and those who are to do so, have our full support and respect, and not least: their contributions are also greatly appreciated both by Afghans and our allies. It is also important in these contexts to recall those who made the ultimate sacrifice that Afghanistan will not once again be a haven for international terrorism. The state of the Afghan army is better than many can get the impression. For example, it was ANA that led the action to stagger the insurrection against demonstrators who entered the PRT camp after the Qur'an burning in March. Norwegian forces also got commendation for not having released the shot. So we've come a long way, but there's still two major challenges left. One is the long-term financing; the other is the size of the Afghan army. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned the point of reducing the size in order to finance and maintain a sustainable army. In RC Nord — where Norway is present — there are also significant negative consequences of the reduction and restructuring of the strengths, as there is still considerable insurrection activity in the area. In particular, this is linked to the fact that most nations have operational and geographical constraints that make it difficult to be flexible when strength decreases. That, of course, makes alliance solidarity more demanding, and putting up with each other when something happens becomes more difficult. Without removing these constraints, most of the efforts in the north will be concentrated in Faryab and Kunduz. The Norwegian contribution in the future must be flexible both in terms of what we are going to do and where we are going to do it. The contribution must be available throughout the area. It is difficult to predict what will happen after 2014, but flexibility needs to be built into the decline of the ISAF countries. To put it another way: the process around the transition must not be decoupled on the ground. We and other countries must be prepared for different scenarios and not be too rigid. There was a long fear that ISAF’s extractions from Afghanistan would be more calendar driven than based on ground realities. I think you've achieved a better balance now, but it just requires this flexibility and the recognition that transition and extraction are demanding. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so clearly signaling that if the situation changes, ISAF must be prepared to continue fighting operations also out in 2014. Security Force Assistance, which is to take over the tasks of PRT and OMLT, is a structure that many have expressed somewhat surprising, simply because at a stage where you are going out of a country, a size that really requires you to be present throughout the spectrum of your capabilities, ranging from strength protection to medical evacuation. Therefore, there has also been scepticism among many countries to take on that responsibility. In general, there is a great deal of concern about the order and manner in which our military presence should be reduced. The point is to avoid, as far as possible, the risk to our forces. Providing a sequence of the dwindling and subsequent extractions that contribute to minimising the risk becomes a major task in months to come. I'm assuming that planning is already well under way. One of the most dangerous phases in a military operation is paradoxically enough when you go home. When you're going to pull out, vulnerability is great, and it's therefore absolutely essential that everything happens in the right order. The defense special command deployed to the Crisis Response Unit on 1 April, and their contribution has already been very substantial. Norwegian special forces contributed greatly to the handling of the major attack in Kabul by Afghan special forces in April. The right supports the extension of the contribution by 2013. From October we will also have a Hercules machine in Tactical Air Detachment that will be present and part of the ISAF strength structure, which will therefore also be available for use by other ISAF countries. It's positive. Finally, let me briefly comment on what the Left proposal has been put forward. We fully support the intention to have a complete review of this operation as well, but we believe it is too early now. Just because the challenge now is to keep focussed on the tasks we're going to carry out all the way in, it's going to be difficult, not to say impossible, at the same time to start a big evaluation. At the same time, I think it's a wrong signal to give now, because it's particularly difficult to signal to the men and women who serve and continue to serve, to all the auxiliary workers who are there and who are still going to be there, that we're really going somewhere else and have the attention somewhere else. We cannot do post-work and summary work until the working day is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e181	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a broad and good account of the situation and challenges in Afghanistan. After more than ten years of extensive effort, we are facing a degression and liquidation of our military involvement in the country. Responsibility for security shall be transferred to the country’s own authorities throughout the coming year. We have to be there for a while, but even more so as a mentor, a guide, for those forces that in the future have to take responsibility for the security of their own people. The Foreign Minister's presentation pointed out in a good way what has been achieved through almost ten years of civil and military action, while stressing the depth and seriousness of the challenges that remain ahead of us, and not least in front of the Afghans themselves. It is not difficult to identify depressing aspects of the situation in Afghanistan — most recently of the widespread attack in Kabul not long ago. But this also showed what gives hope: the Afghans were able to reverse this attack by their own forces. This is the situation in Afghanistan. There is a lot to worry about, but there are also many positive features: nine million children get school, 40 pst. Of them girls. They have an economic growth of up to 9 pst. annual. They have a significantly better road system. There's electricity in Kabul today, which it wasn't ten years ago. In ‘our’ province, Faryab, much has also improved. When the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee visited the country in winter, perhaps the most joyful was the women who attended our meeting with the governor and presented their wishes: a women's house, a park to play in for children and the possibility that the province's women could leave, among other things. to Norway, to pick up impulses and lessons. The great uncertainty is, of course, about the progress we see, continue and become a permanent part of the development when Afghan authorities have to take full responsibility in their own homes. In Kabul, we met with optimism – female politicians who thought that women in Afghanistan would not find themselves in being uneducated and marginalised, as they were under the Taliban – but also pessimism, the fear that Karzai would negotiate the rights of women in a peace agreement with the Taliban. Therefore, there is reason to stress the commitment that will lie in the agreement to be signed between Norway and Afghanistan on strategic, long-term development cooperation in respect of respect for human rights and women's place in society. The government wants the Labour Party’s support – and I assume, also from the other parties here in the Chamber – to ensure that we do not leave the Afghans to themselves after 2014. We will continue to assist with civil development, at the same level as we have until now. We will continue to help with democracy building, rural development, the development of schools and health care and support women's rights. That's the way we're going to do our job to make sure that what's been invested up to now provides the basis for a better future in this hered country, and counteract the waste. But it assumes that the Afghans themselves choose to build on a democratic development – that they will be a future where universal human rights are at the root of development, and where women are respected as equivalent and not again treated as second- or third-class citizens of society. If not, the agreement will be broken, and we will have to think through our attitude to this cooperation. We have set up our civil assistance in a way that has supported under the Afghans' own priorities. There's a line that has to continue. There is no better way to contribute neither to ground development nor to the development of the needs of Afghan authorities to build national structures which, in interaction with local authorities, can create development and thereby trust in their own democracy. Finally, it is as important as the first if the country is to assume responsibility for its own development also in the economic and social sphere and not just in terms of security. We heard from the World Bank representatives in Kabul that the challenges of corruption, which are large and structural in Afghanistan, were at least related to the funds that went through the Ministry of Finance. Our military forces are facing the liquidation of long-term and extensive engagement. It's cost ten Norwegian lives. The Secretary of State named them all, a honour we stand behind. But all who have served deserve honor. They've made a great effort. They've made a difference. Perhaps the most important thing is that they have acted in a way that has built confidence both in the civilian Afghans and in the Afghan security forces. We have escaped events that have provided the basis for rage and strong reactions in the Afghans. This is a prerequisite for our presence to be perceived as a good, as a contribution to a better future, and not as an occupation or an evil one must be rid of. That's this image the Taliban wants to draw, as the basis for building their own power platform. When we wind up our PRT in Faryab and bring together the remaining contributions in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif, we will meet challenges both in terms of logistics and in terms of security. A lot of people have to go out with a lot of equipment – it's crowded in the door, as we're told. Then it is important that we have confidence that those who are going to do the job in the field will make the necessary arrangements for a safe, peaceful and smooth solution. It implies restraint with regard to policy detail management and that we are open to the flexibility required by the situation and development. It's too early to take stock of our contributions in Afghanistan. Much has been achieved. Afghanistan is no longer a haven for international terrorism. The country has a elected parliament and a elected president – if not through elections that hold good enough democratic standards. Women now have voting rights. The evening post announced on Sunday that Fawzia Koofi, who was put to death as a newborn girl, will stand as Presidential candidate in 2014. A study carried out by the Swedish Defence Research Institute in Faryab shows that 56 pst. believes that the safety situation has improved and that they are satisfied or very satisfied. Equally many believe that the development of the area is moving in the right direction. Afghan forces have shown that they are able to address the safety challenges – we saw them in Kabul at the latest – while increasing attacks by rebel groups. So it's both progress and setback. And it's still far ahead, perhaps primarily in building a sufficiently strong platform for a political solution. But was it really different to wait than that change would take time, probably generations? Was it the second to wait in one of the world's poorest countries, ruled by war for nearly 30 years, in a tribal society without the shackles of democratic structures and hardly enough national structures? The expectations of how much and how fast it was possible to change a medieval patriarchal society were obviously too high. Optimism was far too great and did not take into account how demanding the starting point was. Now that the international community is facing a shift in relations with Afghanistan, it is important to have these experiences with them. When Lenin met his impatient followers after the revolution in 1917 in Russia, he used the expression that now we must have ‘revolutionary patience’. I think we need to take that further in Afghanistan if we are to succeed in achieving what is the goal – a lasting change in Afghanistan in a democratic direction. But of course it also has a responsibility in Afghanistan's neighbouring country. A political solution must have understanding and support in the region if the country is not to remain an arena for conflicts of others. A country that has more than enough of its own should be spared for it. As far as the Left's proposals are concerned, like the chairman of the Committee, I would like to say that it is important to draw on experience. I believe that we are doing it on an ongoing basis, inter alia. through the debate here in the Chamber, but it gives the wrong signal to set up some sort of final status for our efforts in Afghanistan when we are not yet done with the job. It's too early, and I also think we need to think carefully about the shape and shape of such an assessment, when that time comes. We now have, among other things, an ongoing assessment of the assistance and it is important to be able to adjust it along the way so that it works in the best possible way. But I think we're going to wait with some sort of overall assessment of what's happened in Afghanistan, and we're going to think carefully about what form and shape such an assessment should take.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e213	Of course, I thank the Foreign Minister for the statement he made, which contained many important things. But for the Progress Party, perhaps the most important thing is to thank all those who have contributed, all the Norwegian women and men who have taken responsibility and left on behalf of the nation of Norway and made a formidable effort. Without them, this would have been a completely different debate. There might have been no debate at all, and if there had been a debate, it would have been on completely different premises. That's why I think that one of the most important things we do is to thank them, to express respect for what they've contributed to, and that as a nation, we make sure that they get all the help they need after they've finished. If we're going to show that we value what they've done out there, we have to show that we value them by helping them all sorts of ways when they get back. In particular, it is important that the enquiries they address to public Norway are properly answered and taken care of. Only in this way do we show the necessary respect for them, and only in this way do we show that we assume our responsibilities as employers and employers afterwards. Afghanistan is a challenging country, engaging and involving a great deal, and one of the big questions you have to ask may be: Where is Afghanistan in ten years? What does Kabul look like in ten years? How has development been? Do you have the same challenges as today, do you have the same problems as today, or have you solved them? For example: found some form of dialogue, an acceptance for the Taliban, and what does it do to us? How are we affected by the results that Afghanistan ends with? Finally, it is quite simple: it is the Afghans who decide what Afghanistan should look like, it is the Afghans who decide what kind of democracy they want, what kind of way of life they should have. We may have clear opinions on this, but at the end of the day it is an Afghan decision that we have to deal with. We may not even have to be satisfied with all the choices they make, but we can't sit here as some kind of over-judgment and say that this was wrong or this was stupid. Our goal must simply be to keep focusing on what we think is important. Influence within acceptable game rules is the way to do it. We can point out clear shortcomings and weaknesses in the systems they have today, but I think there is little chance that we will see democracy in Afghanistan like what we have here. They have no tradition of that, and I don't think of it as an obvious solution. But that we, like a small, harmless nation, who has a good relationship with Afghanistan, can help to influence things in the right direction – as we see it – is quite clear to me. Another important thing in all is how the Afghan state will be organized in the future. Do you want a centralized state, or do you want to end up with some kind of regional government – the country has no great experience with a heavy, centralized power that defines the rest of the country? Or will it be that you end up with a third variety – that you get ethnic groups that want to rule out of their areas? So once again, this is a thought spider, but it's going to be solutions in Afghanistan that we might not see today, which is going to be the result of it over time. I think it's important to have respect for the way the Afghans do things, because it's finally their country, their way of life. We can, as I said, have opinions about it, but we're going to take care of it. I think it's a real possibility that the future Afghanistan will largely be managed regionally, and Kabul ends up having the power that the same regions think it's okay that Kabul has. There will always be some kind of interaction between what's happening out there and what's happening centrally. In addition, the Chairman of the Committee was concerned with some important issues, such as: Afghanistan has signed several conventions dealing with human rights. So this isn't a robber state in this regard, although they have some challenges to address. One of the questions you then ask is: Does the regular Afghan feel that he – he or she – can live freely under general human rights? I think the answer to that unfortunately is no. And then the next question is, why is it like that? Is it because it's a people who don't have general knowledge of what this means for the individual, or is it because you have a state that doesn't actually have the ability to give its citizens their fundamental human rights? I think the answers may vary, but it is quite clear that it is a state responsibility to ensure that citizens' rights are respected at the individual level. So it'll be a challenge, and they come, as I said, regularly. Another thing that has fascinated me after having enjoyed visiting Afghanistan several times is that it is probably a fact that Afghan politicians are the bravest in the world. I guess there's nowhere else in the world where there's a greater risk of politics. We may have some exchanges in this room, but here it's pretty pretty and pretty, good people. It's possible you can get a political wetshot in verbal form, but besides that it's not very violent here. In Afghanistan, on the other hand, politics is a form of risk sport, if I can use such a concept without being ‘disspective’. Then I think that those who dare to do so deserve all manner of honor from us, precisely because they dare. Still, there's two crosshairs in this. One is, what is the driving force? If the driving force is to fill own bank accounts in different places in the world, there's no particular good motive from a political idea. If, on the other hand, you want to do it for the benefit of your fellow citizens, we're going to show any respect for them, and we're going to assist in what's going on. Another issue that is important for Afghanistan and what we are doing is assistance. Afghanistan receives some fantastic amounts of aid from the world community, and unfortunately there is no alternative to it. As it is today, it's the only solution if you're going to get something. It is, as the committee's chairman was about, sometimes a problem to have systems that take away the funds that are coming, and we have a challenge and a problem of corruption there. At the same time, you have to be honest and say that the Afghan view of corruption is not necessarily the same as we have. Here we have to do two things at once, as I see it. One is to influence — again — to have a system in which Afghans have to understand that making agreements where money is part of the whole does not count as long as they spend money on donor countries. In the long run, it is bad for any nation to have a system based on some form of acceptable corruption. For our part, the answer will of course be no. We need to have a system where the funds we contribute can actually be verified and we can stand up to our taxpayers and say that we have contributed to Afghanistan, we can follow it like this and so, and that has resulted in that and that goal. For our part, in our system, it's a matter of course, but the Afghans have a different way of doing it, another tradition. We have to deal with that initially, but we have an obligation to try to change it. If it won't be difficult for the world community, I think, to continue working with Afghanistan. As the Committee's chairman was also involved, the World Bank has pointed out that there is waste and there are clear challenges in terms of what is being done and how to achieve the objectives set. Another theme that I could also imagine saying a few words about is Afghanistan and business opportunities. Afghanistan is a mountain country, a large country with great natural resources. The challenge today is to find ways to exploit them. Although some of us know that the Chinese have planned mining operations and are also planning to extend the railway to the mines, this is how it takes time. The safety dimension is a challenge in the whole to make use of it. Then you have to come up with a system where you can go from helping to making the budgets go up, to establishing economic development in the country. In this way, the country will generate tax revenue and become more independent and independent of assistance. There are some paradoxes in this. Today, my clear view is that it is easier for an NGO to establish itself in Afghanistan than it is for an enterprise to establish itself there. There may, of course, be different reasons for this, but in the long term this needs to be saved, because unfortunately such accounts do not go up. One of the questions will also be: Do we dare to challenge the Afghans enough on this? Another challenge is: Is it true today that Afghan authorities have listened more to contributors than to their own people? If the answer to that is yes, Afghanistan also has that as a challenge, because the primary thing about being a politician is to provide for its own population. Then of course you can say that then you have to have good contributors with you. However, if contributors come before the needs of the population, then, to put it simply, they have committed a political miscarriage, at my discretion. Here, too, I believe that political authorities in Afghanistan need to be challenged to see how they do it. So a little over to military-civil cooperation, which is also a topic that the Storting has been involved in more than once. It is a theme that is largely committed to home, and perhaps significantly less to Afghanistan. At least that's the experience I'm left with after the visits I've had to Afghanistan, and I met the help organizations there. I think it's about attitudes to each other. I see that it is important to have clear dividing lines in this, and I fully respect that. At the same time, if Norwegian auxiliary workers were to be kidnapped, or killed in the worst cases, under service or under mission in Afghanistan, the opinion in Norway would automatically question their safety. Where was the state, where was the defense? We have a lot of soldiers down there, why didn't they take care of those who were there with a civil focus and do the best they could? That's why I think having a pure yes- or no-debate is very difficult, because sometimes you're interdependent. And then there's a couple of other dilemmas that you have to take with you. If an NGO wants to enter a region or an area governed by a local warlord, how far should, or can, this NGO then go? Can you buy security from a local warlord? Can you buy access to a part of the country, to a part of the population, by making an agreement with a local warlord while respecting Afghan authorities, who want a different solution? Here there are some challenges that also those who want to do relief work need to take with them and to be clear. If they choose to conclude such agreements, they must be clear on how to deal with them at the same time and expect respect from the Afghan authorities – the greater good. Nevertheless, I believe that we must dry to challenge them on it. I think the most important thing is to have clear guidelines on what you do, and why you do it. Then the committee leader was quite right about the defence and defence role – including those who have worked from the justice sector, and others in Afghanistan. There is no doubt that those who have been there have done a formidable job. What's going on when you have the pleasure of visiting Afghanistan is the feedback we get. If you have never been proud as Norwegian before: Travel down there and listen to the feedback we get! It's basically Norwegian women and men who go down, but they do a job that goes guesswork. As the committee's chairman and as the representative Svein Roald Hansen pointed out: during the Committee's previous visit to the Embassy in Kabul, we met several politicians from Parliament who said that the only problem with Norway is that you are too little good at boasting about what you are doing. All Afghans, they said – it may be an exaggeration, but still – believe that the West is equal to the United States. As they said, Norway is doing a lot of good, but get it out — tell the Afghans what Norway is doing, because you're doing a lot, but you may not be as good at taking the honey or you don't get a legitimate reward for what you're doing. Norwegian benevolence is a well-known theme – perhaps not especially in this room, but otherwise. Maybe we should take this challenge to ourselves and make sure that we get better at it. I think that the lesson we have learned because we come from a small country on the outside of the world – to use such a term – makes us careful, flexible and smart by nature, because we have to be. We've learned it through time. I think that's a good thing in Afghanistan. I think the last Afghans want, are big footprints where you come in and redefine their country to your country, with your rules and your ways of doing things. If we are to achieve lasting solutions, cooperation and interaction are the only solution. It's going to hurt us somewhere else, and it's going to delight us elsewhere -- which is when more people go to school today, that women get better rights, and that we basically want to improve the life of the smooth Afghans. If we succeed in that, I believe it is fully defendable to support Afghanistan further with substantial amounts in terms of both military operations, civilian operations and pure aid efforts. I thought I would end with a quotation from a French writer named Victor Hugo, who once said: man does not lack strength, he lacks will. Looking at what the world community has done in Afghanistan, there is at least a direct error in terms of international investment and the contribution to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e257	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and thorough presentation and for a very fine tribute to the soldiers who have lost their lives in Afghanistan. It was a very worthy conclusion to a good account. There are many, many thousands of Northmen who have served in Afghanistan over many years. It is important to them that we also remember for a long time after the forces have finally been withdrawn and Norway is no longer present in Afghanistan. There are veterans, many of whom will need the attention and follow-up of society for a long, long time. We've been in Afghanistan for over eleven years, both military and other. The youngest soldiers serving in Afghanistan now were children when Norway became part of the war. The vast majority of the Afghan population have never experienced living in a stable and free society, free from violent conflict. My generation of nordics probably cannot remember a time when Afghanistan has not been plagued by war and conflict. The Taliban regime was one of these fear regimes we saw on the Dayrevy. The Taliban’s absurd suppression and destruction of historical cultural treasures is one of the iconic moments that, like, September 11th – stuck on our retina when we were young. Over the 11 years since then, GDP per capita has doubled in Afghanistan. 40 pst. by schoolchildren are now girls, by far more children receive education, and women hold a quarter of the parliamentary seats in Afghanistan. Many more children survive longer than before, but still die every five children before it reaches the age of five. As the military forces withdraw from Afghanistan and more and more responsibility goes to Afghan central and local authorities, Afghan children and women, above all, face a crucial time. One of the major tests we will be subjected to is that, as control is transferred to the Afghans themselves, the policy in Afghanistan will often take a form and find solutions that we sometimes don't like, as the representative of Ellingen was involved. It will be solutions that feel removed for us, but if Afghans are to be able to build a government with legitimacy, their own solutions must be respected. Yet I, as a feminist, do not believe in a free society without equal rights for women and men. Women must be well represented and have equivalent participation in the development of Afghan society. That's a long way. As mentioned, Afghanistan has experienced some progress. The question is whether these advances are at all politically sustainable or whether we will continue to experience new setbacks. This is at the heart of SV's argument when we say that there is only one political solution in Afghanistan. A war with thousands of civilian deaths, as everyone knows, cannot continue into eternity, no matter how much political or other prestige that has been put into the war over a decade. During this decade, the argument for and the logic behind the war has changed many times. Predictions have been shamed, and the political picture has changed dramatically, in the way we discuss the war and the Afghanistan situation here in Norway, and internationally. In Afghanistan, security is bad. Unlike Norway, which spends almost as much on development aid to Afghanistan as on military operations, the world community spends more than ten times as much on war as on peace – to put it simply. Afghanistan receives far less resources than other conflict areas have received in the same phase. Over 2.5 million refugees are in the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan, a total of 3 million Afghans are fleeing, and it is very challenging to facilitate the return of all. The region is unstable. The neighbouring country of Afghanistan also pays a great price for the war. Over 30,000 Pakistani people have so far lost their lives. Now that we're soon on our way out of Afghanistan, it might be good to look back and make some assessments. The first thing I would like to comment on is that it is overwhelming that the Stortinget and the government in 2001 when Norwegian contributions to Operation Enduring Freedom were discussed. ‘The American-led military operations are essential for the success of the fight against international terrorism.’ This was what Foreign Minister Jan Petersen said at the time. It was not particularly reflected on whether war in Afghanistan was the trick to do in the fight against international terrorism. The Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs could not even take a clear distance from the illegal use of military courts in the early phase of warfare. At the same time as the government little asked critical questions to its allies, the biggest concern was to determine how quickly and effectively this war would take place. I believe very few at that time saw that eleven years later we would continue to discuss our military engagement in the same country. ‘Taliban and the terrorist network al-Qaida are paralysing’ said a representative of the Christian People’s Party. And Hilde Frafjord Johnson from the same party followed up with: «The United States and the Allies are winning the war in Afghanistan. Now we have to make sure not to lose the peace." We are still there today. At this level, the Norwegian Afghanistan debate was very long. I'm not taking this up to be polemic, but to show how the debate has actually progressed. Putting a question mark by attacking Afghanistan militarily was not even taking the terrorist threat seriously. To be an opponent of Norwegian participation in Enduring Freedom was to fall the Norwegian soldiers in the back. There is one way to debate that today is usually reserved for the right side of the United States. Seeking a political solution where all parties were represented was until not long ago wanting to negotiate with terrorists. A party at Stortinget said that ‘SV will have tea companies with the Taliban’. Another central politician and party leader said: ‘Talking with the Taliban no, I don’t believe that much.’ Another former foreign minister went further and said that negotiations with the Taliban would be ‘dangerously close to waving the white flag’. [[...]] It's probably a good logic if you have it so simple that you can divide the conflict in Afghanistan into black and white, in simple and simple, and in bad and kind. But for the Norwegian forces that are in Afghanistan, for the international experts, for the diplomats and the UN workers, and not least for the civilian population in Afghanistan, who have paid the highest price, reality is much, much more complicated. That is why I am very pleased that the debate has changed. I am very pleased that the recognition of Afghanistan as a very complex area of conflict, with major challenges and difficult causal links, has taken on board more – that it has largely taken on board in the debate, that the recognition that the Afghans themselves must go ahead of the development of an equal and democratic society has widened, that there is a consensus that the path to a safe and free Afghanistan is going through political solutions and political representation, through long-term, patient efforts to change man-dominated and patriarchal structures and severe female repression, by committing us to continuing strong humanitarian efforts and by facilitating the NGOs that are doing a great deal in the country. I believe that the representative of Ellingsen has something to say when he says that it is so clearly the most important thing in the long term for Afghanistan to be able to carry on its business and that it should be easier to set up business in a country than in an NGO. I don't think Afghanistan is there yet – I think Norway is doing the right thing when we go ahead and are among the very biggest donors of development aid to Afghanistan. Finally, SV also has a very strong sense of the proposal from the Left. We believe that such a review should take place, but we think that we should adopt it, we should spend more time on the mandate, and we should be more thorough in how we design it. Should it be after the end of the assignment, it should be after the end of the assignment. But I look forward to discussing the proposal with the Left, because we have great sympathy for the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e292	First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a balanced statement that points in a good way to the serious challenges ahead of us, but also makes some flashes of light visible in the development of Afghanistan. Initially, I would like to underline and reiterate the recognition by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the efforts of the many thousands of Norwegian men and women who have served in Afghanistan since the start of the operation in 2001. I don't think it's too early to thank those who have been involved, even though we're still going to be in Afghanistan for a while. As a representative of the Hedmark Armed Forces, I would like to send a special thanks and regards to all the soldiers stationed on Rena who have served in Afghanistan during these years. The defense has done a lot to follow up the veterans who have been in foreign service. Although we are gradually withdrawing the forces from Afghanistan, many will certainly need both assistance and follow-up for a long, long time after all they have experienced in foreign service. Therefore, it is very important that we follow up this work even in the years to come. The Central Party believes that we have an important job to do in Afghanistan in the future, even though we are now planning to phase out our military participation in the country. The Council of State set out three important processes we need to focus on in that work. The first is the transfer of security responsibilities from international to Afghan forces. This means that Norway will have a significantly smaller military presence in Afghanistan in the coming years. However, our overall efforts should remain strong. The desire to help Afghanistan become a safer, more stable and well-functioning society is firmly anchored in the United Kingdom. It is therefore essential that civil assistance continues on the day of the closure of the military contribution, and not least that we contribute to the training and training of Afghan forces, so that they themselves can ensure the security of Afghanistan in the best possible way. The second process is on the important long-term development cooperation and our civil commitment. The voluntary sector has often shown its way in Norwegian development. We must continue to support those actors who have the best prospects to make an effort under the difficult conditions in Afghanistan. There is no easy job to do development work in Afghanistan. Those who are going to do a good job there must have many and good contacts and a lot of knowledge about the country. At the same time, in order to build a long-term solution for the country, it is important that we continue to channel much of our assistance through Afghan government channels. It is also important to strengthen the legitimacy of the Afghan Government to provide assistance in line with Afghan plans and priorities. However, I would point out that it has its challenges that one of the world's largest beneficiaries of assistance is at the same time one of the world's most corrupt countries. I think it is right for Norway to commit itself to maintaining strong support in the years to come. However, assistance must be provided with clear conditions and follow-up by the Norwegian side in order to reduce the risk of corruption and other misuse of funds, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs also points out in his statement. In some areas, we can observe that women have achieved stronger rights and a better situation compared to before, but much remains. For the picture is composed: 40 pst. by students in Afghan schools are girls today, with more and more women taking higher education and taking part in the labour market. We even belong to people who are both judges and programme managers. At the same time, we receive reports of poison attacks against school students. Many schools in Afghanistan have had to close down because of the security situation and attacks on what are called school students, but it is really only aimed at girls. So women in Afghanistan generally live in a very difficult situation. It is therefore important to strengthen support for women and contributions that lead to women in Afghanistan themselves being willing and able to stand up and fight their own cause. This support must also be granted under clear conditions, so that it works as it should, namely to improve the situation of women in Afghanistan. The third process is to find a political solution in Afghanistan. Norway has contributed to peace processes in other countries in the past, and it is important that we do what we can to help create peace in Afghanistan. But we must be prepared that it will take a long time. So finally, I want to repeat some of what the representative Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum said in the corresponding debate last year, and which is at least as topical today: ‘Afghanistan will need humanitarian aid and assistance for many years to come. Let's hope that, together with the other countries of the coalition, we are as willing to commit ourselves to humanitarian action in the years to come as we have been to commit ourselves to military action in the years that have passed. An overall increase has been behind the Norwegian military contribution to Afghanistan. Now we must stand together on humanitarian efforts and ensure that Afghanistan is given our attention long after the last Norwegian soldier has left the country." Finally, the Left's proposal: we also believe that the time has not yet come for a broad evaluation. But it will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e325	Let me begin where the Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded his statement: several thousand Norwegian women and men have served in Afghanistan for the last decade, someone with life as a mission. They all deserve a thank you, whether they have taken part in the military on the security side, working with civil assistance or contributing to the work of a political solution. The future of Afghanistan depends to a large extent on the development of these three key elements of the process. The first one aims to provide greater security. The NATO Summit confirmed that the objective is to end the military combat missions of foreign troops in Afghanistan by the end of 2014. Nevertheless, we must expect the Afghan Government to continue to need foreign funding, training and other support. The second process aims to provide economic and social development. Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world. They need humanitarian aid in the short term. But even more important is the long-term development cooperation on education, health, infrastructure and industrial activities, which will provide work and income for a population of over 50 million people. The third process aims to find a stable political solution. It requires that all important Afghan groups see themselves served to advance their interests through a broad and peaceful national dialogue, rather than through armed struggle and terror. Let me thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a comprehensive presentation. It did not conceal the serious problems, but at the same time they were merged with a hopeful mention of the possibilities ahead. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘It is easy to refer to all the difficulties and challenges that could lead to the failure of Afghanistan’s development. However, I choose to be optimistic – in the long term.’ I believe that this humility has been present from the Norwegian side from the very beginning of this commitment. It is particularly important to listen to the description of the story that Mr Snorre Serigstad Valen now performed from the Spokesman's Chair. The best thing to say about what he said is that SV has obviously had the fasit. I will refrain from doing the kind of selective use of quotes that Serigstad Valen did, but I just want to say that there is good evidence of what I am now saying, that changing foreign ministers, changing state councils, changing party leaders have taken a humble view of the difficult mission that Afghanistan has been for us too. I will refrain from noticing anything more than saying that the SV's fasitite has actually changed a little while along the way, depending on where SV has sat in this hall, whether it has been on the first bench or on the back bench. The security situation summarised the Minister for Foreign Affairs as: ‘complex and difficult. In parts of the eastern provinces, the Taliban and other rebel groups have territorial control; there are areas where insurgents are carried out on the basis of bases in Pakistan. The news shows suicides, civilian losses, road bombs and competing warlords’;» said the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement. The transfer of safety responsibilities takes place only where the situation is best. Elsewhere, the safety situation has clearly worsened in recent years. The Afghanization is a proper strategy, but at the same time full of uncertain predictions. Social and economic development is moving forward, but too late. I share the Foreign Minister's assessment. On the assistance side, the results are not as good as we could have hoped. ‘This is partly due to the fact that the structures of government are still weak — yes, almost non-existent at local level — and partly to the fact that corruption has sometimes been and is significant.’ We've had some discussions here in the main hall this past week on corruption and human rights violations in Norway are cooperating with. Ethiopia has been one example of that. I hope that my colleagues in the Stortinget who were committed to a stronger and clearer tone from the Norwegian side towards Ethiopia, based on governance problems and human rights violations, will keep an equally clear and consistent line with Afghanistan. For my part, following the visit of the Foreign and Defence Committee in Afghanistan, I am concerned about the development of women's rights, because during the reconciliation process it is obvious that Karzai is discussing the issue of women's place in the Taliban community. There is only one way to go in relation to what has been achieved in terms of women's position, through the strong commitment that we have contributed to, not least in the field of education. Women’s human rights activists — to the extent that men too — expressed great concern for this part of the development towards us, and I believe that there is something Norway should pay great attention to in the future. An annual aid volume from Norway of about 750 million. kr will not provide as good results as desirable if we do not have a very clear focus on corruption and on the issue of good governance and human rights. In war-torn Afghanistan, it is expensive to build and cheaply tear down. A bomb is enough. It is tragic when teachers are killed and when new schools are destroyed by the Taliban or other resistance groups. They use all means to prevent success for those who cooperate with the government and foreign troops. It is not easy to be ordinary Afghans and should choose between whom it is best to ally with when the situation is so unpredictable. This is probably the perspective of many Afghans. Despite adversity, money and development efforts, results. ‘The picture is not completely black’, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs. One of the most positive things — and I fully agree with that — is that a new generation of children receive education and health care. What has been achieved with regard to the reduction of infant mortality and the increase in the share of education, the schooling of girls, is a revolution in relation to the policy of the Taliban regime against women. We must work hard to preserve and strengthen such rights and not reduce or lose them. The Christian People’s Party has long stated what the Minister of Foreign Affairs reaffirms, that ‘the conflict in Afghanistan cannot be won militarily’. A political solution is needed. What, then, does the Foreign Minister have to report from the work on a political solution? I find the essence in two sentences from the statement: ‘We hear from time to time about various reconciliation initiatives. But it has proved difficult to succeed." [[...]] Yes, the road to reconciliation is long, and the counterpowers cloud no means. We see that tragic outcome. Last year, the leader of the Afghanistan Peace Council, Rabbani, was killed by a suicide bomber. A few weeks ago, Arsala Rahmani, a former Taliban minister who changed sides and became a peacemaker for the government, was shot down and killed in Kabul. Not even the attempts to establish a Taliban representative office in Doha, Qatar, have so far been made. The president of the International Crisis Group, Louise Arbour, recently concluded in an article in the Global Post: ‘The day’s action to negotiate with the rebel groups in Afghanistan is not working.’ When the Taliban knows that the presence of foreign troops will escalate within a short period of time, it will hardly increase their will for peace now. The views can hardly be called promising. Let me dwell briefly on two aspects: ethnic and regional. The statement points out: ‘The road to reconciliation is long. Suspicion exists across political and ethnic dividing lines.’ I would like to see the Foreign Minister's deepening of this. Colonel Rune Solberg, who was the head of the NATO forces in the Faryab province, said something like this in a TV program on the NRK: What I see now is that Afghan leadership does not focus on this pashtun belt. To a great extent, we see that the old contradictions between pashtuners and other ethnic groups are continuing. It must be addressed whether the Afghanization should not just end in a renewed civil war. The regional aspect was also addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. More clearly than before, neighbouring countries are finding a solution to the problem of peace. However, the interests of Iran and Pakistan are not clearly stated and how they hinder peace. I would therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if possible to explain this in more detail in his statement today. If neighbouring countries prevent peace, we need to identify what we – and the world community – can do to remove such barriers to a peaceful solution. Finally, I would like to mention that the negative regional consequences of one of the most dangerous conflicts of our time, the Kashmir conflict, contribute to a sustained high level of tension between India and Pakistan, contribute to the bonding of military resources around Kashmir and to the mutual fear of the influence of others in Afghanistan. In addition, developments in the Kashmir conflict have probably given a tragic inspiration to international terrorism. Success in the peace settlement process in Kashmir could give Pakistan the opportunity to more easily refocus its defence policy thinking and contribute more constructively in the border areas against Afghanistan. This is necessary if we are to succeed in the region as such. Let me conclude by saying that the Christian People's Party subscribes to the assessments of the Committee's chairman of the Left's proposal. There is certainly a time for summary and learning, but the time — for such basic summary and learning — should be when the mission is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e393	I would also like to start by thanking you for what I think was a good account of the Norwegian effort both military and non-military. I fully agree when the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that there are many people here who have made a great effort and sacrificed a lot, and that there is now also a very good job done by Norwegian policemen to train what is going to be the Afghan police. I am also particularly pleased that the Foreign Minister spends so much time talking about the challenges the Afghans face, and the particularly demanding period that we now know we are in. Norway has now been committed to Afghanistan for 11 years. There are many Norwegians who have done a lot of work and have had a great personal strain, and many relatives have also had a great personal strain in the time we have been there. But that also means that there is great competence around the country, around all political parties, I think, and there is a broad commitment and knowledge among people about what we are doing. I'm impressed by much of what's done, sail if there's much left. Now it's like I'm the only one of the main speakers who's been assigned a speaking time of 5 minutes. That is why I would have liked to comment, which I am not given the opportunity to comment. So I'm going to use the remaining 3 minutes and 27 seconds to talk about the proposal that we've made. We're now finishing our engagement, and then it's important to have an overall assessment of the effort. It's important to have transparency around what worked, and what could have been done differently, and it's important that it is made independent. We have to remember that all of the games are behind the commitment we have. We've had two different governments that have been involved in the commitment we have. Here it's about us all being responsible, but we also have to learn something, because this is also going to be the future challenges. In terms of our military and humanitarian efforts, we can have much to learn from just this. In 2011, Major General Jon B. Liland delivered a report to the Chief of Defense, with a number of recommendations. It really didn't lead to that much public debate. That is why it is important to have a public debate where all parties can have humility, where we can look at both humanitarian and military efforts as a whole. Therefore, it is important that evaluations are independent and include the assistance work and the role of independent organisations. We're also concerned that we get an evaluation of the follow-up of the veterans, which I think is much better now than it has been many times before. But it's important to look at how we're going to manage to do it better, for such missions, based on the nature of the mission, can involve a great risk of both physical and mental damage, damage that can occur in places you don't expect it. Then it is important to choose as well as prepare, work along the way and work after work that is good enough. Then we have to see if we can learn from what works well in what we do today. We also need a comprehensive report, because the challenges of the future for our military and humanitarian mission are going to be this kind of mission. We can quickly get into a situation where these kinds of challenges come back. Then we have to have a humility associated with that there is a lot to learn. You might say that this is the wrong time for an evaluation, but I think it's right to say that we should have it at this point. The left is not concerned that this is something we should have credit for. If the state councils are in favour of this, we can send the proposal to the government as well. The important thing is that we get a humble and open process where we all admit that we've been involved in this, and that we're going to learn from this. On Saturday I drove with an Afghan taxi driver. He was concerned about one thing: you must not leave us. There's a lot of tradition that when you pull out military troops, the humanitarian commitment disappears. History has taught us a lot in that area. It's important for us to go in and say that we're not going to leave them in the loop, that we're still going to be involved in building this society, once we've had this military commitment. Otherwise, I hope I can come back and say everything else I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e419	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e422	This year it's over ten years since we went into Afghanistan. We entered as part of a broad alliance, an alliance that today consists of 50 nations, of NATO countries and countries outside NATO. We agreed to fight international terrorism and prevent Afghanistan from becoming a base for Al Qaida. We are in Afghanistan because the UN and a legally elected Afghan government want us to be there. ISAF was established by decision of the UN Security Council and at the request of the Afghan authorities. A unanimous Security Council concluded that the situation in Afghanistan was a threat to international peace and security. Nearly 8 000 Norwegian women and men have participated in the largest military operation in Norway since the Second World War. They deserve all thanks and recognition for their efforts. We have lost ten inalienable lives in the fight against terrorism, for freedom and democracy in a warring country. Afghanistan has been in occupation, civil war and tyranny for decades. Human rights have been set aside by a brutal Taliban regime. International efforts in Afghanistan are now entering a new phase. After more than ten years of extensive civil and military engagement, we now see the outlines of an Afghanistan that both wants and is increasingly able to take responsibility for the further development of the country. Above all, we see an Afghanistan that is no longer a marshal for international terrorism. We have also contributed to democratic institutions, the construction of schools, roads, wells and hospitals. During the Taliban, 1 million children went to school. Hardly any of them were girls. Today there are nine million schoolchildren, and not far from half of them are girls. At the NATO summit in Chicago, we agreed on the framework for the future international engagement in Afghanistan. We agreed on a strategy for our security efforts and confirmed the plan to gradually transfer security responsibilities to the Afghan authorities by 2014. That means that until summer will be over 75 pst. of the Afghan population live in areas where their own forces are responsible for security. The role of international forces in Afghanistan will gradually shift from military operations to training, advice and support. NATO shall not hold fighting forces in Afghanistan after 2014. At the same time, we must help to make Afghan forces the best possible solution to the major security challenges they face. How we will contribute to training, training and support beyond 2014, the government will come back to life. But we have already decided that we will contribute 150 million annually. kr to Afghan army and police. This is an important contribution to the security of Afghans after the closure of the ISAF operation. The security situation in Afghanistan remains very challenging. Fighting, road bombing and suicide attacks are still part of the daily lives of the Afghan people. In such a situation, it is not unnatural for questions to be asked about Afghan security forces to take over the security responsibilities of ISAF. So far, the transfer of responsibility has gone according to the plan. Afghan security forces have shown that they are able to carry out their duties, and the ISAF figures show that the activities of the rebel groups are falling. It is not an alternative to the Afghans themselves taking responsibility for their own security and development. This is also wanted by the Afghan authorities. I met with the president of Chicago Afghanistan at the summit. President Karzai himself attaches great importance to the fact that the Afghans must take care of themselves and stand on their own feet – both militarily and politically and economically. They will not, and shall not, depend on international assistance beyond what is strictly necessary. Supporting this objective will be the basis for the government’s efforts in Afghanistan even in the coming period. Many Afghans are concerned that the closure of the ISAF operation will put an end to international support. The financial crisis has also contributed to the fear that aid will be weakened. This has weakened the belief of the Afghan people in the future and reduced the will for long-term investment. My overall message in the conversation with President Karzai in Chicago was to stress that Norway wants to remain a long-term partner for Afghanistan. We will therefore conclude an agreement setting out the framework for further cooperation. Many other countries will do the same. I also took the opportunity to invite President Karzai to Norway for the autumn to sign such an agreement. This will be a firm confirmation that Norway and the international community want to remain a long-term partner for Afghanistan. Our support for Afghanistan does not come without commitments. Afghans must follow up on what they have promised, both in terms of political, economic and social reform. They must respect the fundamental rights enshrined in the Afghan Constitution. I highlighted in my conversation with Karzai the importance of combating corruption and the need to safeguard women's rights. Without progress in these areas, we cannot defend using so much resources over such a long period of time. Let me also stress that we must have a long-term perspective for a political solution in Afghanistan. Only through such a process can we achieve peace and stability. Uncertainty around the further international involvement may encourage forces working towards a positive development in the country. We must therefore be clear about our long-term commitments to Afghanistan. When we entered Afghanistan ten years ago, the overall goal was to combat international terrorism. Using military power was a serious decision, but it was right, and it was necessary. There has also been a broad welcome about our military participation in ISAF from an overall boom. It has been important for the soldiers who have participated. We have succeeded in preventing Afghanistan from remaining a free area for international terrorism. At the same time, we need to recognise that developments in Afghanistan are characterised by uncertainty — uncertainty about the security situation, political developments, democracy and respect for human rights and the situation throughout the region. These are challenges we must meet together – the Afghans themselves and the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e470	I registered that the Prime Minister was clear that no assistance should be provided beyond what is strictly necessary, which I think is very positive. In the World Bank report Doing business 2012, Afghanistan comes out as country no. 160 of 183 when it comes to facilitating industry and commerce. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: What can Norway do, in addition to providing pure assistance, to help Afghanistan improve its commercial and commercial activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e477	An important part of our assistance is building institutions in Afghanistan, making Afghanistan a better organised country. It is absolutely right that a decisive reason why Afghanistan is a poor country is that it is corruption, bad state institutions and bad governance. Many of the framework conditions necessary to obtain investment and economic activity are not in place there. That is also why what the international community, including Norway, is doing to help Afghans to stand on their own feet, is building institutions and helping to develop their authorities, so that we can facilitate more business. In addition, it is investing in e.g.: education, because it makes Afghans more capable of developing their own human resources. At the same time, we need to recognise that our efforts there are a contribution to giving less ground for the re-attachment of the Taliban and other extreme groups. So it's in our interest to develop Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e486	I would also like to follow up this with assistance, which the Prime Minister had in mind in his speech. In a research project from NTNU this winter, I think it was, it was found that much of the aid in Africa had led to an increase in conflicts instead of creating peace, because much of the money ended up with local warlords, who thus got money to buy weapons, which strengthened their own power, and then created this division and war instead of peace. Now we know that Afghanistan has many of the same social structures, including: a tribal structure with warlords, etc., and is a rather fragmented and fragmented country in this context. So my question to the Prime Minister is: how will Norway avoid using our aid money in this way also in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e495	The starting point here is that Afghanistan was a free area for international terrorism. That's why the international community entered with military power. Norway supported it. I myself was Prime Minister when NATO made its decision to use Article 5 on self-defense. The starting point is military intervention in a country that has been a base for attack on one of our NATO allies. Then I think everyone so early that although it was important with military presence, military intervention, that wasn't enough. In addition, we had to build Afghanistan, as a country that could handle itself. Then aid was important, and I think it is more likely that over the years, too little attention has been paid to humanitarian, civil efforts in relation to the military. Then, in cooperation with the United Nations and other donor countries, we are committed to providing that assistance in the best possible way. We do that all the time. We're evaluating, and we're evaluating. Dismantling aid will be bad for Afghanistan, but it will also be bad for us in the long term, because we will then contribute less to a stable Afghanistan in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e506	Thousands of Norwegian soldiers have served in Afghanistan during these eleven years. They have made an extraordinary effort, and most have experienced this as a valuable experience that they take with them in their further career, either civil or military. But many also come home with scars, on both body and soul, and it will often be so that many of these won't be visible until many years later. The defense has made quite a massive effort now to recognise and follow up its veterans better. But it still stops in civil administration – at Nav, at the State pension fund and in the civil health community. One way to translate the recognition expressed by the Prime Minister here in the Chamber into reality for these veterans is to contribute to the provision of adequate competence, adequate attention in civil auxiliaries — and also to contribute to the necessary coordination between civil auxiliaries and military authorities. How will the Prime Minister make a concrete contribution to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e517	This government has presented its own big message and a separate plan, where we in the field by area say how we should actually do a better job of following up the veterans after they get home. It is about large and small measures: it is about improving the follow-up to health and other public services for people who have come home; it is about better coordination between military and civil authorities. It's also about what I think is important, namely that the state, the defence, now gives more visible recognition – has better practices in recognising those who come home as military veterans from Afghanistan and other military operations. So some measures have been implemented. We have ongoing dialogue with the Defence and with the veterans' own organizations about how we can develop it even better. This is an area the government has prioritised; we are constantly in a process where we reinforce our efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e529	That action plan was almost two years late, and only 27 out of 126 specific actions have been implemented. It goes slowly, and it stops in particular what is involved in coordination between civil and military authorities. After all, we have been involved with military forces in various phases in Afghanistan. A NATO meeting – to which the Prime Minister was present – has just ended. A consolidation phase has been undertaken to focus more on neighbourhoods and less on large out-of-area operations. But then we know from experience that requests for participation can come quickly. We saw that in Libya, and we know that we can't always plan. Let me then ask you a question in the light of the experience we have had in Afghanistan, and in relation to what happened in Libya: What does the Prime Minister think should be the guiding political principles and operating conditions for Norwegian military participation in future operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e538	Firstly, the action plan for veterans is an important plan. It was followed up and implemented. We are the first government to make such a comprehensive plan. Of course, we can do it even better, and we're in dialogue with the veterans' organizations about it. As regards participation in new international military operations, it is a fundamental condition that it is in international law and that it is a United Nations mandate. It was important to us in Afghanistan, it was important to us in Libya, and it has been important to us in other military operations. We cannot today predict with certainty when and where a new situation arises, but we did well in Libya that we can deal with this type of situation quickly in Norway, if required by us again. So international law, cooperation with others and anchoring in UN treaties are crucial prerequisites for our participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e545	I noticed that the Prime Minister shared the concern I expressed about the development of women, and the position of women, in Afghan society. It will be very important to follow the negotiations and the reconciliation process between the Karzai regime and the Taliban to ensure that fundamental human rights are not negotiated there. The Prime Minister was far from suggesting consequences for Norwegian aid if the position of women is not improved, but may rather be exacerbated by this reconciliation process. I would ask the Prime Minister to clarify what consequences he sees for Norwegian involvement if we were to have a development like very many human rights activists, and very many leading women politicians in Afghanistan, expressed to the committee when we were there a short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e553	At the NATO summit in Chicago, there was a widespread perception that it was important to set up aid for Afghanistan, and very many countries do. At the same time, it was a very strong belief that we need to impose conditions, so that aid contributes to a better development in Afghanistan, not least in terms of women's rights, but also in terms of the fight against corruption. Fortunately, we are not alone in formulating that kind of requirement. There are many countries that do. The consequence is that we either step down the aid or do it differently – or both. It depends on how the situation develops. But let me also stress the following: we have a dual reason for providing assistance to Afghanistan. One is a general justification, to contribute to the fight against poverty, poverty and poverty in a poor country, as is the case in many other countries. What is the additional argument for Afghanistan is that we have a special responsibility because we participate heavily in the military because it is important for us to stabilise Afghanistan. There is an extra reason — which is not as common in other countries — to contribute in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e560	I have a father who participated in the first German Brigade, and his life was divided into two – it was before and after he was in Germany. After that, we have participated in many international operations, and the Norwegian people have a lot of competence to do so. Every time we do it, it sounds like it's a special case. But we see that more often and more often Norwegian military is used in such operations. It's important to learn from what you've done, and maybe not treat such operations as a special case, which we do especially when it comes to political operations. Maybe we'll get up in those situations more often and more often – because we're a member of NATO, and because we're part of an international society where it's important to take international responsibility. I do not want the Prime Minister to ‘shoot’ our proposal right away. But does the Prime Minister think it's important that we learn from all the assignments we've been through, that we be able to convey that learning to the next time, and that we be able to do it in such a transparent way that we don't make it a struggle for scapegoats, or mistakes, but a learning process that we're going to take along?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e571	I also have a father who participated in the German Brigade. He taught me a lot about it. I believe it is important to learn, and at least it is important to remove the impression – if anyone has the impression – that it is an exceptional case that Norway participates in military operations abroad. That's what's normal. Norway has participated in 100 military operations with 100,000 soldiers in other countries after World War II. Then it's not a small, weird case. It is normal for Norway to participate in military operations — in different ways. I mean, we learn all the time. There is no doubt that for many years we did too little for the veterans. Now we're doing significantly more than we did a few years ago. We learn more about the importance of seeing military and civil efforts in the context and understanding borderlines and sharing responsibilities between these types of efforts. We learn, or perhaps underline, the importance of international law, of anchoring in international law – and many other things. We learn that through a continuous dialogue with the Storting, with the media and with the public. I think that's a good way to learn. So if we want uniform assessment, we're going to get back to later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e585	I would like to extend my warm thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a broad and good presentation, which formed the starting point for this debate in the United Kingdom today. I think it is important initially to remember why we are in Afghanistan, and that the world community through the UN and the UN Security Council felt that the situation in that country was a threat to international peace and security. The international military forces were sent into Afghanistan with a clear UN mandate. Through a number of UN resolutions, the world community has underlined the importance of the international community contributing to the security and development of this country and the region. Our presence is part of securing the country’s security – there is no doubt about it. We are there because the alternative is that the country is again thrown into a bloody conflict that can destabilise the whole region, and to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a haven for international terrorism. In short, we are in Afghanistan to contribute to stability, security and development at the request of the UN Security Council and Afghan authorities. It hasn't been easy being involved in Afghanistan, and things haven't gone as fast as we hoped. But Afghanistan was – and is – one of the poorest countries in the world. The country has been marked by war and conflict for decades. State institutions were almost non-existent, and the humanitarian situation was completely precarious when the international community entered the country about eleven years ago. Although the security situation in Afghanistan is not satisfactory today, it is a positive step forward in the country. Democratic institutions are in place, the country has a new constitution, and schools, roads, wells and hospitals are built – and more are being built. This would not have happened without the international effort, where we are part of the community. Our objective of security and development of Afghanistan cannot be achieved militaryly, but without military presence we cannot provide security for civil progress. Therefore, it is important that we are also present in the military, and that we contribute to building up the Afghan military forces. We've maintained our military involvement in the country since 2001, and we've increased our civilian contribution by 750 million in recent years. kr in the year until, among others health institutions, schools and infrastructure. We have done this together with our allies in recognising that development requires coordinated military and civil efforts. I would also like to say that there is a great deal of respect for the efforts of our soldiers – soldiers whom we have sent to this area. There are about 8,000 women and men who have participated. There's a lot of respect for that. Unfortunately, ten soldiers have had to pay for their lives in the cause of peace. Norway shall be no longer than necessary in Afghanistan. We went into the military with the international community, and we're going out of Afghanistan with the international community. But it is important first of all to talk about how we can better create progress and development for the Afghan people. I also think it's important to ask, what have we achieved? Although the situation is demanding, there are more developments in Afghanistan that can be enjoyed. We must remember that Afghanistan was and is one of the poorest countries in the world. The country has been plagued by wars and conflicts for decades. State institutions were almost non-existent. The humanitarian situation was totally precarious when the international community entered the country. But we now see good results in several areas: Democratic institutions are now in place – among others. President and National Assembly. The country has a new constitution and has 118 female judges. Schools, roads, wells and hospitals are built – and more are built. Some nine million children attend school today, and among the students are about two million. 40 pst. girls. Over 80 pst. Health services are now available in the population — compared with 9 pst. in 2004. Child mortality is reduced by a quarter, and life expectancy has increased in recent years. A total of six million children and young people are in education – millions of them are girls. As far as state construction is concerned, since 2004/2005 we have had democratically elected President, National Assembly and Provincial Assembly. A quarter of the members of the national Parliament are women. A new constitution has been adopted, and the law is under development. The Afghan army has taken greater responsibility, as we see. However, much remains, not least in the case of institutions such as the police and the judiciary, as well as district and provincial authorities. The most important question now is not when we're going home, the most important question now is how we're making progress after 2014. The final closure of the NATO-led ISAF operation will take place by the end of 2014. After that, our role will be counselling, training and support. That is the wish of the Afghan people. Now it is necessary for the international community to live up to the commitments it has undertaken, that the signals out to the Afghan people and authorities on the winding up of ISAF do not mean the end of international engagement. The transition means that they have confidence that we support the forces that will build a stable, secure and more enlarged Afghanistan, that a credible exit implementation plan will be established even after 2014 and that one will not remain alone again. It is important that the ISAF allies follow up their economic promises to support Afghan security forces, even after 2014 – otherwise I am afraid that Afghanistan and the future of the Afghan people will be quite gloomy. It is gratifying to hear that the Prime Minister today announced significant economic efforts, even after 2014, just to build civil society in Afghanistan. Then it is hoped that the transfer of security responsibilities to the Afghan security forces will take place peacefully in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e641	Like many here, I agree that it is important to maintain a strong focus on what is happening in Afghanistan, even if you are about to reduce and gradually withdraw. It's important to stick to what was the starting point, which many people have been into here today as well. We had 11 September 2001 in the background. Afghanistan was a safe port of terrorism – financing, training, planning, etc. by terrorism, and on that basis also a threat to international peace and security. It was on that basis that the UN Security Council adopted an action against Afghanistan on the basis of Article 51 of the United Nations Charter on self-defence. So that's a basis of international law for this. It is a bit surprising then to hear the criticism of the representative Snorre Serigstad Election of the military intervention that was made in 2001. Had they not entered that time, Afghanistan would probably have been a safe haven for terrorism today, where terrorists could have been freely planned, financed and trained for various actions around the world. I also think it is necessary to remind Serigstad Valen that SV is still in the government, with collective responsibility for the military efforts in Afghanistan. You can't stand here on the pulpit and almost waive responsibility for what's going on, the military effort that's going on. If you are in government, you are collectively responsible for it. Then I might think it's better to be involved and take responsibility for it, instead of protesting for the whole world and still be on the move. What Serigstad Valen actually said can also be interpreted as a criticism by the Minister for Foreign Affairs – he criticises the military effort, while the Minister for Foreign Affairs insists on continuing military engagement in Afghanistan. It might be interesting if Serigstad Valen could explain whether that is how it should be understood. There are many challenges in Afghanistan, and much that is going to take a long time, as also the representative Svein Roald Hansen had in mind. Although, unlike him, I would be careful to quote Lenin in terms of state building and that kind of thing, I totally agree that there is a long way to go. There are major challenges, but also some positive ones. That made sense to me when I read the article in the Evening Post on 3 June, now Sunday, about this 36-year-old woman, Fawzia Koofi, who is a member of Parliament in Afghanistan today. She has declared that she is a Presidential candidate in 2014. As a woman, she probably has a minimal chance of being elected – but just that she says, is in itself a positive sign. She pays a high price to keep quiet. Her father, her four brothers and more cousins have been killed because of political commitment. Her own husband died of tuberculosis in the Taliban prisons. So now she's widowed with two daughters. She herself has been exposed to many threats and two attempted attacks. She has already published a letter to her two daughters in case one day she should not come home. It is a situation that is difficult for us to understand – what it is like to be politically engaged in such a climate. There's a huge respect for people choosing to get involved, despite the great threat it brings. But perhaps what is the future of Afghanistan is that one can mobilize these positive, democratic forces, that these get space, that gets influence. I think it's like Fawzia Koofi who are the ones who hopefully represent the future in Afghanistan, even though the time may not be ripe for the ideas that part of them stands for. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed to three challenges in his presentation: first, security; second, the development of civil society; and third, the need for policy solutions. All these are demanding challenges that are largely linked. Specific safety is important. If real control and legal certainty are not established, it is not possible to build civil society or democratic and political institutions. It is also not possible to build schools, health institutions, help or have a positive development. Everything can be traced back to the establishment of a sustainable security situation in the area. This is why Norwegian efforts — the one that has been and the one that is planned in the future — are important and important, a very important help to try to get a controllable situation. The starting point for Norwegian policies in Afghanistan will be to find the right balance between what the country needs from outside and what it should or may need to develop itself. The aim, of course, is that Afghanistan should be able to steer development itself as far as possible. Oversized help can lead the country into a dependent client role and prevent the development of its own responsibilities. But a sub-dimensioned commitment, a retreat and a reduction in the focus too early, can leave the country to a situation of chaos, division, internal conflicts and oppression. It is therefore important to achieve this proper balance in the approach to the situation below. When it comes to building a government, there are many challenges that have also been highlighted in this debate. A government is not something you impose from the outside, or what you just adopt, and it says there, it's based on underlying social, economic and cultural structures and norms. The state structures we have in the West, which we like to use as a model of democracy, legal certainty and freedom, have underlying standards and values. For example, freedom, equality, personal responsibility, personal choices, etc. are values built up under democratic rule. In Afghanistan, enough of these values and norms are lacking. It's the tribal affiliation that might be the most important thing, defining one's place in society, defining rights, providing protection, etc. Therefore, it is a major challenge to go from a culture that is tribal, or socio-centric, and to a more individualised culture in which individuals should have the freedom to choose their own future. In such a culture, you need time. It is also dependent on a strong enough state power to enforce legal certainty, so that the decisions taken are respected and have legitimacy in the population. It also requires a process of building national identity and affiliation. We know that from our own history is not an easy thing to do in a hand turn. It's something that needs to be built over time. Democracy, participation and voting rights, etc. is about getting hand in hand with the development of national identity and its legitimacy. Perhaps you should have flexibility in what kind of government you choose. Perhaps you should have stronger regional or local anchoring. Perhaps one should have a stronger consensus model with regard to government, so that all groups in such a society feel that one is involved and has a voice in development further. Then our own history also shows that the education system is central and important in developing democracy. I guess it's not random that in our own country, the development of democracy in the 1800s and beyond went into the 1900s in parallel with the development of the school system. This is why the developments now taking place in Afghanistan in the school sector are very positive, necessary and crucial in order to develop democracy and a legal state. The Norwegian ISAF forces have done a very important job in Afghanistan. They're doing a very important job today, and they're important for what's going to happen in the future. I believe that improving security, training Afghan security forces, and having a mentoring system after 2014 are incredibly crucial and important to enable this to develop positively. The assistance we give is also important. It's important that it gets where it's going. It is, in itself, a major challenge that it does not end up in the wrong hands and thus contributes to increasing the level of conflict, increasing fragmentation, but that it is channelled in a way that makes it part of building the country, building well-being and development in the country. Then I also think it is important to support the democratic and building forces in Afghanistan. We're not going to interfere with internal policies, etc. But within the rules and frameworks that exist, you can be involved in supporting processes and forces that promote stability, democracy and freedom in the country. It is still a long way to go for Afghanistan against security, development and freedom. It's a road with great challenges and many cuttings in the sea. At least the story of Fawzia Koofi seems to me to give hope that there are good forces on which to build, which will build and develop Afghanistan, and which have visions of freedom and democracy. I think it is in these forces in the country that the hope for the future lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e671	Afghanistan is clearly marked by many years of war. However, international efforts over the last ten years have given rise to optimism. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs so clearly stressed in his statement last week, there is a positive trend in several areas. Economic growth has been high over several years, more and more children go to school, more women are now at work and child mortality has fallen, to mention something. In addition, much good work has been done in the training of Afghan security forces to give them the best possible starting point for taking over after the international forces. It's a pleasure. Nevertheless, I believe that many with me are somewhat concerned about the further development of Afghanistan when a return to the Afghan authorities has become a reality. The aim is, of course, that Afghanistan should sustain the good development we have seen in recent years, and itself be able to ensure the security of its citizens, but there is still a lot to show that Afghanistan has a long way to go. The security situation is itself very demanding, and many civilian lives are lost every year. A UN report found that about 3,000 civilian lives were lost in 2011. It's the fifth year in a row that the loss rates are increasing, according to the statistics. Most of the 3,000 civilians were killed by remote-triggered road bombs or suicide attacks. The UN report shows that nearly 80 pst. the deaths are caused by the Taliban, while the NATO-led and Afghan government forces were responsible for about 14 p.m. Many deaths are caused by internal tensions in the country, which will be a very difficult situation for the Afghan forces to deal with in the coming years. Afghanistan is also one of the world’s most desperate countries, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his presentation. There is little doubt that there is a significant challenge with a high level of corruption and assistance. The danger of aid being used against the intentions of the donor countries is great. Aid may be put in the hands of rebel groups or local warlords and then used for, for example: buying silence from public officials, which could make the situation even more difficult for a severely tried and tested civilian population. According to figures from the World Bank, aid to Afghanistan amounted to a total of 117 p.m. of public consumption in 2009. At the same time, assistance to the country amounted to over 45 p.m. of gross national income. It is therefore important that the international community closely monitor the situation, even after 2014, and continuously assess both the facility and the level of assistance to ensure the best possible use of resources, but also to prevent the misuse of aid. A stable Afghanistan requires inter alia: combating corruption, negotiating good policy solutions and making strict demands on the means of assistance provided by the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e686	I would like to thank you for this good debate on the presentation. I want to commend the contribution to the committee leader, which I think was detailed and comprehensive in many areas of the whole. I well feel, along with the Minister of Defense, that we are responsible for a great and demanding – and, as we know, dangerous – operation, but we can send that signal to our women and men in uniform, in civil and diplomats that they have the broad staging behind them. I have experience, as I also think the committee did, that it is actually more than words – it counts out there! It's a little different view, with shades, etc., and so it should be, but I think the whole message from the Norwegian Storting is that there's support for those who are engaged outside, and that's good. I think the representative of Åmland had a good reference to this female, self-declared presidential candidate. I've met her several times. She is an unusually exciting and courageous person that we all follow – I want to say with the anxiety she herself describes, when she says what danger it is to be a leading, female politician, but she is an example of an Afghanistan changing. The committee leader said that I might have been a little early to thank for the commitment of those who have been engaged. If I was perceived so that I now thanked, I agree. I believe that both the Minister of Defence and I are aware that we regularly welcome people who come home and honor them properly, and we take our responsibility seriously, whether we send out a new ambassador, a new embassy employee, new ISAF soldiers or policemen – all those who are out there, we are in the middle of it. I fully agree with the point made by the chairman of the committee, which is also my point, that a closing and withdrawal phase may be as demanding as the entrance and the standing in the middle of it. The representative of Ellingen was a little concerned that Norway has a good reputation in Afghanistan. I think it's important to point that out. This evaluation of assistance has also shown this. I'm a little more in doubt when he, as I understood it, thought we should do something more out of it. I believe that Norwegian accuracy on it is going to be one of our trademarks, because it is about to build up under what we do. But it's nice to take it with you. What I'm concerned about, and I want to spend the rest of my post on, is that we have to and can get better – for two reasons. One thing that I was in for – now I'm not going to spend so much time around the military, which is certainly what the Minister for Defence comes up with – is to be good at doing the transition in a tidy way and also to be able to do what we intend to do after 2014, namely to be a leading aid operator in a proper way. It's also going to be very demanding. Now the evaluation report of Norwegian assistance is on the website of Norad from Monday, and it can be read there. That's interesting reading. It is not a declared truth, although it is an evaluation report from a competent environment, but it is interesting perspectives that we have to look at together with the Riksrevisions and other analyses of Norwegian aid. As expected, it's a mixed picture we get. This applies not only to Norwegian aid but also to international aid in general. That report shows how difficult it is to engage in development efforts in a country with major governance and security challenges. That's the real dilemma. We're there with help because we're trying to fix something that, because it's missing, makes it so difficult to provide assistance. But the option – which could be tempting, because in some areas we experience corruption and poor achievement – namely, to withdraw would be worse. One of the things the study finds is that Norway has followed Afghan priorities — that’s good. We have chosen relatively good aid channels – that is good. We have had a clear distinction between civil and military action – it is again emphasised as important and good. And we can measure the effect in some areas, for example. of schools and the number of children in school. At the same time, it is pointed out that having more children at school and more school buildings does not necessarily mean that young people are getting high quality education. It's almost the experience we can do in our own country – it's a very complicated picture exactly that. However, going from there to measuring the impact of assistance on overall development in Afghanistan is difficult. It's also demanding, of course. We have now transferred more responsibility for the assistance to the Embassy in Kabul. I think that's right, because they're close and close. But it also requires us to equip that embassy with resources and experienced people who can implement it. It is a major and important part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' work to improve the routines and training of the competent and courageous employees we have there. I believe – from the ambassador and beyond in the service – that we now have a very good setup for it. Then it's also true that we have a special responsibility for the Faryab province. It's a difficult balance. We're going to use about 20 pst. of our funds there. We experience that when, on the one hand, we will support Afghan aid priorities, the Afghans from Kabul may place different emphasis on Afghanistan than they do in Faryab. We can stay right in the middle of it. It's going to be tough when we pull the PRT out of Faryab, to be present and follow up on those who run the aid, also in dialogue with the regional authorities. However, we believe that those who run the aid in Faryab – those NGOs and those environments – are up to the point of being able to operate effectively even after we have ended our presence. This assistance evaluation is now out of place. We're going to go through it thoroughly. I have said in this Chamber that the main priority for Norwegian aid is fixed – a level of around 750 million. kr for the period after 2014 and that the exposure areas have been designated. But I want to say it very clearly that we are going to evaluate the report and draw lessons from it, also for the way we run the assistance. It is here, as otherwise, of course, demanding to have the aid for spreading in too many areas. I think the report shows that since 2001, it's spent 5.4 billion. kr on assistance to Afghanistan – approximately 800 different exposures. It's clear that it's natural to see that concentration and focus in some areas make it easier to follow it up, so that we can also operate a good quality assurance. So they asked us what we did, for example. in Faryab with the so-called Pashtun belt, where we felt that it was difficult to reach that part of the population, and because we reached other parts of the population, there was a conflict in itself. This is a real problem. One of the reasons for this is the safety dimension, that it is more dangerous to enter areas where there is a high level of conflict. Now one third of the aid in this province has gone to very conflict-affected areas such as Almar, Qaysar and Ghowrmach – that is, the part of Faryab – and it is not harmless areas. This is at least an illustration that it is difficult to provide good assistance when there is a high safety challenge, and that is not an argument, in my opinion, to mix civil and military assistance and say that then we take the military channel into where it is dangerous. I think we've been proved quite well. So the representative was the Højbrätten, I think, concerned about the regional. There I can say that Norway has worked to help countries around Afghanistan take responsibility for the regional situation even after 2014. We were in charge of a meeting in Istanbul last year at the Bonn conference. It will be followed up in a short time at the level of foreign ministers in Kabul where there will be representatives of the countries in the region – Norway will also be represented. The outcome of that meeting will be a process in which Afghanistan and its neighbours will meet regularly at the level of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and deepen cooperation within seven different areas relevant to regional development. Thus, a process is in progress. I do not underestimate the fact that the various strategic assessments of the countries around and their objectives for the engagement in and around Afghanistan can still be a source of both conflict and to make progress more difficult, but at least it is a process that Norway has contributed to. Finally, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to bring forward a group that has often been a little overshadowed by the attention given to political and military issues, and it is the many voluntary organisations – the NGOs we call them – that are active in Afghanistan. Slowly, but surely we see a positive development in the Afghan countryside where the majority of Afghans live. Norwegian-funded NGOs are an important contributor here. They can show good and concrete results in areas such as health, education, water supply, agriculture and animal husbandry, and they contribute to building civil society through cooperation with local partners – a very important contribution to the Afghan democratisation process from below, where and as we have experienced in Norway. Norwegian support for the important work of NGOs in Afghanistan will therefore remain central to the Norwegian aid operation. It is underlined here by the Prime Minister and others that we entered Afghanistan in 2001 to prevent the country from being used again as a base for terrorism. We've reached this goal far on the way. The important thing in the future will be to ensure the sustainability of the results we, and not least the Afghans, have achieved. The attacks of 11 September 2001 showed that Afghanistan’s security is also, in a sense, our security.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e719	I think the Foreign Minister made a good contribution to the debate where he pointed out the importance of the regional countries around Afghanistan. Here are different nations with different motives. Some people do want least stability, because then they keep their focus away from themselves, and others have a different approach to it. Some time ago, a UNAMA report created a certain outrage because it actually concluded that the Pakistani intelligence service, ISI, is supporting suicide bombers in Afghanistan. If it's a fact, and when it's pronounced in a UNAMA report, it's probably pretty official. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What can Norway do to stop the negative impact of Pakistan when ISI does this to continue to maintain instability in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e726	This UNAMA report builds on what I think those who follow in a intelligence perspective, an open perspective – journalists, observers, diplomats – see that there are highly problematic links between different services across a border, which, as was said earlier in the debate, is hardly a limit. I'm not going to help deepen it, but we all know that this is about a deep commitment from parts of the Pakistani military environment, the intelligence environment in Afghanistan's own affairs, and the conflict lines go on both sides of the border there. What can Norway do about it? I think we're going to be honest and say that it's limited what Norway has of influence here. But I think, as one of the ten largest donors to Afghanistan, that it is actually also being noticed what we mean. It must be about the broad strategies to enable the Afghans to make their own decisions, especially for the political developments that are coming, because political dialogue must also be pursued by Afghan groups, and they must be able to do so without being led by organisations from outside, including from a neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e734	I also want to keep going a little bit when it comes to the regional, which is a very important aspect of this. We've seen from history that when you move out of areas, a vacuum of power is often created, which in turn leads to new conflicts with neighboring countries, to fill that vacuum. Now there has been talk of Pakistan, and it could be interesting to hear whether the Foreign Minister is also concerned about Iran's role in this. Iran was active in Iraq after the invasion there. Can you expect something similar – I kept saying – commitment or attempts to destabilize Afghanistan? Then I will also follow up with a question: Have it ever been discussed whether to provide any kind of security guarantees, for example. through NATO, trying to defuse the vacuum of power that arises when you pull out?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e741	Finally, if you're going to literally interpret it, it's irrelevant that NATO provides a security guarantee. However, I think that the NATO countries and the ISAF countries see that we should also be engaged beyond 2014 but in a different way from 2014 – not with combat forces, but with training and with assistance, as I have illustrated. Yes, then it's a very concrete and precise description the representative gives, that a vacuum of power can arise when a big actor steps down and pulls out. I think we're going to see that here too. Iran as a neighbouring country has ambitions in this regard, there is little doubt. Now we should not underestimate – in what often becomes a very negative focus on Iran – that Iran has taken a heavy toll on the situation in Afghanistan, among other things. with a large flow of refugees, which they have the house in their area, so that Iran has a lot to play with regard to Afghanistan, is natural. Their motives for Afghanistan are different. We see that they have reacted strongly to the agreement concluded by the United States with Afghanistan. They'll probably do everything they can to prevent an American presence. However, we believe that the neighbouring countries in the region must take responsibility, including Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e748	I want to go back to Pakistan a little bit. The regional perspective is extremely important, in particular with regard to the non-existent Pakistan-A Afghanistan border. These neighbouring countries have an important role to play in ensuring a smooth transition, perhaps especially in the longer term. The direction and approach of these countries will be quite decisive. There have been considerable tensions between the United States and the West on the one hand and Pakistan on the other. There may be some practical consequences for the extraction of forces, because transporting materials along the road will be difficult. But of course it can also have some political consequences. My question is really about how the Minister of Foreign Affairs views the future role of Pakistan in the region, relating to Afghanistan – what constructive contributions Pakistan can make, and how we, as one of the donor countries, should deal with Pakistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e759	Let me say the same about Pakistan as about Iran: they have also taken a lot of pressure on what has happened in Afghanistan over all these years – we should not forget it. Some of this has also been applied from the outside. But Pakistan also has a hugely complex social structure and device. Who really has the dominant words there? They have choices, but is it democracy, etc.? I think, in general, that what the international community needs to do is to create what is so finely called incentives in this region, where the countries, individually and collectively, will have more to gain by making more trade, by making good transit of goods, and by developing water resources together. The representative of the High Line mentioned Kashmir, the border area between Pakistan and Afghanistan, where water, road, etc. plays an important role. For Pakistan it must be that they interpret Afghanistan in their homeland, not as a security threat, but as a stable one, that they do not think that a weak Afghanistan is an advantage for Pakistan. It is when these things are leveled out in a way that countries can have common interests in a more stable future together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e768	In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said that 50 pst. Norwegian aid was to be channelled as direct budget support to support Afghan priorities. It's a high amount and a high proportion. For Norway, this is approximately Three hundred and twenty-five million. kr per year. Given what is common here, the culture of corruption, it is important that Norway ensures that mechanisms are in place to control this flow of money. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say something about what concrete measures or mechanisms he sees for himself to establish an overview of how the funds are used, and perhaps also about what he sees as the greatest risk factors in that picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e775	The risk factor is that corruption is endemic, it is present in the culture of society. Good people do bad things – if we're going to use Norwegian value patterns. I think we have to do three things. First of all, we need to teach our people who are working on this, so that they have the right control questions and set this up in a good way – where we have come a long way – and so that the staff present have the right thinking. Then we have to go through the channels we give our money, for example. The World Bank, and ensure that the same applies there, that they have the best control procedures possible, and that they provide in a way that has checkpoints along the way. Then we have to build Afghan capacity. Norway has contributed to the financing and development of the first Afghan environment to combat corruption. It will not be on the level of our own audit authorities in Norway, for example, or with Transparency International, which is an international organisation, but it is certainly a start. In all of these areas, we have to do what we can to combat corruption. If it's endemic, it goes without saying that there are cultural changes that need to be. It'll take a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e788	I would like to return to the ethnic contradictions, which are part of the multifaceted – cultural, political, military and ethnic – picture you face in Afghanistan. One of our military leaders who has served as head of the Faryab forces, Colonel Rune Solberg, told the NRK some time ago that Afghan leadership does not focus on the Pashtun belt. It's a very serious confession, given the significance of the old contradictions between Pashtuners and other ethnic groups in Afghan history. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that this issue should best be addressed in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e795	I've been discussing this with Rune Solberg. He has many interesting observations, after being present. I don't share all his conclusions – if I get to say it that way. What I think this illustrates is one of the reasons why it's true that the international military presence is gradually escalating. For this is Afghan relations, which Afghans must find a way out. I don't think it's necessarily just going to be peaceful. I believe our ability to go into these conflicts from an outside presence, both political and military, and – to say it in good Norwegian – try to clean up or control developments in another direction at best will be halfway, and in worst cases can make difficult things even worse. To understand the contradictions of the Pashtun Belt of the Faryab Province, a little bit on the side of Meymaneh and up in a valley, how we can reach that valley and not that valley – there is a very difficult war economy in these regions. That is why I believe again: the strategy must be that the Afghans must take responsibility for this. They have to find their balances, as we've also found ours, between different opposites of interest in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e804	I am pleased with the Minister of Foreign Affairs' focus on combating corruption. It's going to be a huge challenge and it's part of the democracy building. It is important to also enable Afghans to fight corruption. Afghanistan is perhaps the largest cooperating country we have in terms of assistance. How much resources do we have in our embassy? How much resources do Norwegian authorities have in place to work on following up all the major aid projects that are there? It is important to have enough Norwegian resources in place to be able to follow them up properly. So my question is, how much resources is there, and how much is the council planning to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e811	I had almost been tempted to say that we never have enough resources for that. Although the Embassy in Kabul is a large embassy in Norwegian context – and there are limits to how large it can be – this is one of our challenges. Do we have enough people, that is, of our own, to follow up these projects? The evaluation report questions this, and it is a timely question that we need to look closely at. I believe the answer to that question is that in some way it cannot be enough, so we have to set a limit somewhere and get cooperation procedures with other countries and with Afghans, and then we have to trust in some point that it is as good as it can be. I want to keep focusing on the fact that ‘as well as it can be’ is something that we must constantly reach out to. I think there are many good intentions in the Left's proposal today, but I agree with the chairman of the Committee that this is not the time – perhaps later – to do so. Then this is one of the fields, how we learn from the fight against corruption we do, and others do. I think Norway has done well in relation to many others, but that in itself says how difficult it is. I just want to confirm that we have a full focus on that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e818	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e822	I have had the pleasure of reading the Foreign Minister's statement and think there are many important and good moments that make it a good debate today. In particular, I want to praise him for thanking the soldiers and those who are in Afghanistan, for the amazing work they have done, and also for reading by name the ten who have actually sacrificed their lives to make the people of Afghanistan feel better. One of the major themes in 2001 was women’s rights in Afghanistan and the conditions under which women lived. In Time, Senator Hillary Clinton wrote an article in 2001, entitled “New Hope For Afghanistan’s Women”. There she wrote, among other things: that if women’s rights are respected, Afghanistan is less likely to become a port of terrorists in the future. She also wrote that there is an immoral link between the way women are treated by the Taliban and the hateful actions of Al Qaida terrorists. What this is an expression is that human vision in Afghanistan is one of the main challenges that is also unsolved today. Then the question is whether we've managed to meet the hope that Afghan women got in 2001. Human Rights Watch produced a March report, ‘I had to run away’, which looked at the situation ten years after the Taliban. Women are imprisoned after escaping from violent husbands, women are imprisoned after rape, and Hamid Karzai has not followed up on international human rights. There was the status after this report. One named Malalai Joya, who is referred to as the bravest woman in Afghanistan, rejects the fact that it has improved. She claims that violence is increasing, that the rapes are increasing, that killing is increasing, and she also said that under Karzai, new laws are in place that forbid women to leave the house without a male permit. In other words, there are divided opinions about how it has improved. But I want to say there's a lot of evidence that it's getting better. Studies carried out by help organisations also show this. One of the visible facts is that almost three million girls get school today. But fear is – and I would say it is justified – great for what will happen on the day we are going out of Afghanistan. Norway and the international community provide large sums of assistance. The Progress Party believes and is pleased with the signals that one has to make greater demands, more conditions for the money given, in particular for fundamental human rights to be respected, and that women's place in society is guaranteed. That is why I am also pleased with the signals the Prime Minister made earlier from the pulpit that this will be done in the time to come, and I look forward to hearing how it will be done. Finally, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and others who have said that it is only the Afghans themselves, society and the people who can change those attitudes. That's what's the challenge. Those are the ones who have to take responsibility. What we can do is push in the right direction, and we should do that more by setting the conditions for the assistance given.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e835	Let me begin by saying that as Minister of Defence, it is very gratifying to follow this debate and the expression of the broad consensus it is that we should have a great and important commitment in Afghanistan. There is also broad agreement on the course and direction of the assignment. I know that, from a very large number of visits to Afghanistan and very close contact with them, from a soldier to the top management of the defense, that they very much appreciate it. We try to express it when we gather for medal ceremonies. I want to mention that on Friday we now have the next, and really a very special medal ceremony. Then the chairman of the committee, the representative Eriksen Soreide, and I will be present, as we tend to be, when the last PRT quota comes home. Although we still have the same number of people in Faryab that we had a few weeks ago, we are now in with what is called the Transition Support Group, and it's the people who are going to complete that mission in Faryab, who have now travelled out. Those who come home were our last Provincial Reconstruction Team, and it is important to mark them – as we have done every time – but also that the whole part of our mission goes towards the end. It is very much appreciated among our soldiers that political authorities express this recognition. I think, as the Foreign Minister was concerned, that we should say quite privilegedly in this Chamber and in this country because we have the broad consensus. First of all, it means that we have political support from all over the spectrum to send people out. It's legitimate even though a government with hardly a majority behind it sends soldiers out, but it's much, much better when we have such a broad majority. I also believe that today's debate has illustrated that, because we have the broad consensus that we should be there, we can also allow a rather sophisticated debate on how we should be there, where we should be, where we have been, etc. I think we do. We've had good debates before, and I think this goes into a solid tradition, which there's every reason to be happy. It's important to learn. It's important to take over the experience you've had. Of course, they've been both good and bad, and it's important to take both of them with them. And there is considerable learning. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to several things that have happened on the aid side. The same thing happens on the military side of our country and in the alliance. Many things are done differently today than in the first few years. That's good. We have to learn from this assignment, as we learn from other assignments. It happens continuously. With regard to the proposal to take the big debate on whether this was right or wrong, I think, as many others have said, that it should come in time. But the purpose is, of course, good. We have been in Afghanistan for almost 11 years with a solid military contribution. The Lisbon Summit two years ago decided to wind the ISAF power by 2014. As both the Foreign Minister said in his statement, and the Prime Minister said today, it was confirmed in Chicago that that plan should be maintained. As regards the principle of transition, transfer of responsibility to Afghan security forces, I can state that that plan is on track. None of us is ignorant to know what is going on afterwards, but the transition plan itself, which follows a carefully established form, works and lives up to expectations. I think it is important to stress that Norway was one of the first countries in NATO — several years ago — that put emphasis on saying that the most meaningful thing we can do in the last part of the mission in Afghanistan is to put Afghan police forces, Afghan military forces, other security forces, in a position to do the job yourself. It creates sustainability, and it creates credibility in Afghanistan. The fewest Afghans would believe – even if we claimed otherwise – that we were not actually going to be there forever. In addition, the important principle of entering another country, as we did in Afghanistan, is that one of the objectives must be to make our own efforts superfluous at the time. We're part of the solution. If we had been there too long, we would be part of the problem. It's important to know when the time is right. I believe it is right that we now steer as we do towards 2014, knowing that both our financial support and our training support will continue even after the ISAF force has ended. So a little bit more about the Norwegian military contribution. On 22 April of this year Norway received the request from the head of ISAF to withdraw the Norwegian forces from Faryab as early as during October of this year. It was part of a revised plan by the ISAF management to concentrate efforts on a few fewer areas — along the main population centres and along the main transport years. The Government has decided to respond to that request. An accelerated withdrawal of the Norwegian forces in Faryab is coordinated with ISAF’s plans, and the disposal of the infrastructure is coordinated both with the Afghans and with the NATO Training Mission, with the aim of transferring the significant investments deposited in the Faryab camp to Afghan security forces when we are out, which we will be by October 2012. I would like to stress very strongly that I fully agree with the chairman of the committee, representative Eriksen Soreide, that this is a demanding task. It would have been demanding anyway, when it happened, but it's happening now. Something happens faster than we first planned. The more important it is just to sort the order, stack the cards and make sure that we are able to operate as far as possible while we wind up. Ideally, we should have all the soldiers in place for the last day. Most people realize that this is technically impossible. But at least I can assure the Storting that I myself, the head of defence and the top management of the defense do what we can to ensure that we have a planning that takes into account both the execution of the mission and the risk that it will properly involve completing that part of the mission. So the government has decided and also announced what else we intend to do from 2013, when the PRT period in Faryab is over. We will also have a significant presence after this, focusing on advice and support for Afghan security forces. We have extended the efforts of the Norwegian Special Forces in Kabul, which support the Special Police Unit, CRU. There is no doubt that that contribution is highly valued both by Afghan management, by CRU itself and by NATO. It's just one of the most valuable contributions we can make. It's a risky task – we've been illustrated several times in the last few months, but we're sending out the best soldiers we have to take the most demanding assignment, as it should be. I'm glad we could extend it. Then we will continue our engagement and really increase our commitment to mentoring the Afghan police. That's what we're looking for in a common Norse plus latvian format in Mazar-e-Sharif. We will, as has also been mentioned before, send a Norwegian military transport plane, C-130J Hercules, from the second half of 2012. This will be included as an ISAF resource. It's not just an airplane for your own use, but an airplane that will fly for our allies. Norwegian efforts make a difference and are highly valued. The representative Ellingsen pointed out that we are not always good enough to boast of ourselves. It's possible it's in our people's soul. But I can allow myself to report, as many others have also heard, that we are being bred off in the alliance and in Afghanistan for the effort because it is both solid and extensive in volume, but also because it has maintained a very high quality. The ones we send out are well prepared, well trained and well motivated. With a good dose of Norwegian tradition in itself, they also make sure to do the job in a good way, which we really don't have to brag by ourselves, because there are many others who do. It's a pleasure to be able to say in this context. Finally, let me say about the subject of learning: one of the themes that has been raised in many Afghanistan debates is the relationship between civil and military efforts. I just want to stress, once again in the extension of the foreign minister's posts, that what has been our goal for all these years has been to get the best possible models of cooperation, but at the same time to avoid contact, that is, to be aware of the role of the different actors, and to respect each other's role, but within a general political plan. There's also a good deal of learning happening, and there's no doubt that the line we've been dealing with now is getting more and more excitement. There has been significant activity, including: in the US Congress, which has come to the conclusion that the idea of these quick fix projects in which money is distributed from the commander’s hand has, rather, created more Ugandan than useful, and that the long-term way of thinking about this has been useful from the Norwegian team. I will end by saying again: I am very happy on behalf of all those who are out there, for the broad consensus that has been expressed in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e869	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e872	At regular intervals, there is evidence from the grassroots, from the ground level in Afghanistan, that the equipment you have is not entirely good enough. There are shortcomings in this, and you point out that there are better alternatives that you do not have access to. The undersigned had some time ago the joy of being a student at the Defence College and also experienced in that context a part of the defence culture, which I sometimes felt was so marked by loyalty that it became self-destructive. In the furtherance of that, I thought I would ask the Council of State: What kind of tolerance does the Council of State have in terms of individual representatives of the defence, private people, who go out and express their opinion if you think that what you have got from tools to do the job is not entirely good enough? Can you do that? Or what kind of restrictions does the Council of State think it has to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e879	To the representative of Ellingen's question, I would first like to say that I believe it is entirely clear that Norwegian soldiers are among the best equipped in Afghanistan. At the same time, it is quite right that there are often different views on, for example: the vehicle to be fitted. We've spent billions of dollars on new specialized vehicles for Afghanistan. Every time we've done that, someone said we were going to buy one, and someone said we were going to buy the other. It's also part of the defence culture, and I have great respect for the fact that there are several opinions on such issues. But I think it should be very high under the roof when it comes to expressing things you're worried about. You can do it internally, you can do it externally, you can do it through e.g. The trade unions, and to say it carefully, it happens quite frequently, however somewhat less frequently now than before. On my last visit I have experienced that very few people have been concerned about it. The soldiers have been more concerned with the defence's long-term plan. I think that is a sign that they are relatively satisfied with the material conditions under which they work in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e884	I thank you for your answer. By extension, I have another challenge for the Minister of Defence. Some time back, big headlines were created here at home because teams and troops during events in Afghanistan had established their own -- I'll call it -- war cry. You also went around with coat marks where you honored one of your falsified soldiers. This led to strong reactions from political leadership and the head of defence in this country. It was widely felt that it was directly inappropriate to act that way. Now the council said in the previous answer that he is open that there is a ceiling height, he invites you to say things. How far should one go in marking the loss of a close co-player during sharp operations, without in a way clashing with other leaderships given by the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e891	Let me first tell the representative Ellingen's question that this was a rather demanding and important discussion. I think it should be very much tolerable for expression of, for example. to remember a falling friend, but I don't remember that that was what was the essence of that discussion. What the Chief of Defense, the General Inspector of the Army and the then Council of State rightly took up was that we can't have any alternative uniforms for which the state has asked people to join. It can't be like using uniform details that symbolize a kind of aberrant subculture within the Defense. It was tightened up. I think that's right, because uniformation has a purpose. It is to show that it is sent out on behalf of the State and that it is to register the command systems it entails. But after those episodes I think it was taken reasonable and good grips, not least from the Army's management and the head of defense, which I strongly support under, as my predecessor also did. This happened in the time of the then state council Faremo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e896	I can only confirm what the council says about the medal ceremonies. It's always a great honour to participate there, and we get that opportunity again on Friday. The Committee has also used the opportunity to honor our falcons with wreath and speech the two times we have been in Afghanistan. We've also participated in the corresponding ceremony on Defense Memorial Day when we've been to Washington. These are good traditions that both the government and the Storting want to continue, precisely in order to recognise and honor both those who have served and those who have had to offer the ultimate sacrifice. My question relates to what both the Minister of Defense and I were about the complexity of withdrawing. The question is: how will the Norwegian side ensure adequate strength protection and coordination in the overall allied extraction? How does the Minister of Defense evaluate the arrangement that is now in place for Faryab?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e903	There were two questions, and if I get to take the last one first: As far as Faryab is concerned, I think we are in the process of developing a good plan for that. There will be allies, not least German forces, to assist. American special forces and helicopters, and the Afghan army, which we ourselves have trained, will be part of a comprehensive package solution for how we get our material and our people out, while we are thus able to provide strength protection until the last soldier has left Faryab and the camp is left to the Afghans in a good way. It's demanding, and we don't have time to lose in doing this in the right way, but I think it's the right instincts and grips about it with Faryab. As for the broader question of the entire liquidation, I just think we're going to be honest and say, when the whole ISAF is going to go home, it might be the biggest logistical operation of the time. If you're going to compare something else in history, I think it must be the trip back to the United States after World War II, but it happened in peace. Now it's happening in a more complicated security situation, and we just have to pay the most attention to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e912	That was a good conclusion to the answer, because it leads me to my next question. When the committee was there two years ago, a lot of people in ISAF were concerned about not only having to see the issue of provincial security but also seeing the whole. Of course, there is always a risk that, if it is settled in one place, it will flare up in another place. The question in this context is: What contingency plans and possible resources are there if one suddenly faces a situation in which, in the middle of a critical extraction phase, the uprising suddenly flares up again in areas where we are present and where we are to withdraw?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e919	Once again, a very important question, which is, of course, a question that is at ISAF level. Here I think it is important to send two signals at the same time. One is that we are serious about winding up ISAF by 2014. I think that is an important political signal, so that Afghan actors actually adapt to it and take on the responsibility they have to take sooner or later, and not just push it on. Therefore, we should not create the impression that it can be reversed. At the same time, the long-term strategic partnership must be such that there is some flexibility in adapting to the situation. I probably share some of the concerns about ISAF's overall willingness to think about the last part of that reasoning, given the enthusiasm that is now being displayed from several countries that it is not that long again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e927	First, I want to boast that the Council of State has got these medal ceremonies organized, so that they have become as fine as they have become. In this context, I would like to say that there are also parties that are not members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who would like to participate in them – just so the Council of State has noticed. I have a question of coordination and cooperation, and, if necessary, non-cooperation, on this matter with military and humanitarian cooperation, on which there has been broad agreement and on which the Left has also supported. But there are also many of the things you get feedback about from people when they come back, that it's good, but also some bad experiences from that separation. It may have evolved better during the time we've been in Afghanistan, but here's one of the areas that I really think we have a lot to learn from, from the places that go well, and from the places that don't go so well. Isn't this really one of the areas where we would have needed an evaluation to see when it works well, and what prerequisites are there for it to work well?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e934	As for the Storting's internal organization, I think I'm leaving it to someone other than the government, but I see absolutely the point when it comes to participating in ceremonies. When it comes to the big question of civil-military cooperation, I think we're all going to assume that learning about this will go in a slightly different direction, and that it's not a simple answer. But I want to say – and I've followed this very closely, because I've always worked on it, whether I've worked in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence or researching exactly that kind of problem -- that the main trend is that more and more people, including a lot of Americans, now agree with what has been the Norwegian line, that this COIN approach – where you can almost magically replace military power with rapid development projects – has failed. So it's a reasoning that makes sense at first sight, but it doesn't work on closer scrutiny. I really think that learning comes into our favor: it was right to think about the efforts in Afghanistan in the long term and professionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e941	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e946	First, I would like to thank you for a very good and comprehensive debate on a very important topic. In conclusion, I just want to link some comments to some of the things that have been up. One is — as the Foreign Minister mentions — the importance of having a focus on quality, not just on quantity, on the question of how many children attend school, etc. There is, of course, a general problem in meeting the Millennium Goals, but there is also a problem in Afghanistan. Secondly, I would like to clarify that my point of boasting of efforts was that Afghan authorities don't boast so much of what goes well. And they have to do more of that. The fact that Norway and other donor countries are to boast of their own efforts, however, I think it can be a little counterproductive sometimes, precisely because our whole point is to support and support the efforts of the Afghan authorities, so that the Afghans feel that this is a project that is worth supporting. Then there was one post that separated something from the others, and it was the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen's posts, about what was said and not said in 2001. Well, if SV wants to participate in that sport, then they want to do it for me, but then they have to try to represent the story correctly. The Bondevik II government was completely crystal clear – and I just want to quote briefly here, first Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen. He said in the debate on 5 December 2001 that: ‘The fight against international terrorism has a long-term perspective and requires a broad range of instruments. Norway is actively participating in this fight, both politically, economically, legally and militarily.’ He went on to say: ‘The international community is now facing significant tasks in Afghanistan in order to meet these tasks, a long-term and broad approach is needed, and to make the necessary resources available.’ [[...]] In addition, Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold said: ‘The fight is demanding and will be long-term.’ And further, ‘The situation is developing rapidly, but the military action in Afghanistan can be long-term.’ The point is that everyone recognized that this was neither quick fix nor something that was left in a short time. You recognized that it was going to be complicated, and it could be long-lasting. Well, that's what the story looks like. We joined our allies under a clear UN mandate and at the invitation of the Afghan authorities. So there's a consensus that all the parties have kept since, except that the SV has sometimes gone back and forth. There was one party that showed in the debate that you did not know exactly where you were standing, it was just SV. Bjørn Jacobsen said in the debate that ‘SV is also very pleased that the acts of war in Afghanistan now appear to be going to the end’. That was the same quote that Snorre Serigstad Valen used to criticize. In one line change, the representative Bjørn Jacobsen managed to say both: ‘We have gone against bombing because we have not believed it would work’ and in the next line say: ‘We also have a joy in that the bombing may have worked’. With all due respect: SV has been in government since 2005 and has a co-responsibility for Norway having its soldiers who deserve our recognition and respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e984	I've learned that when people admit that they've been wrong, you don't exactly have to rip it up and repeat it over and over again, so I'm going to leave SV's posts. What I want to say after the round that has now been, also related to our proposal, is that I am very positive that the government parties have been as positive as they have been. Our aim has been to achieve something in this area, but not necessarily by adopting our proposal today. I would like to comment on the first thing the committee leader said, namely that starting an evaluation would be a distrust of those who have done the job. I'll take a strong distance from that, because it's not. It's actually because of all the recordings that have come from those who have done the job, we've come up with the proposal. It's just all the people who have been to Afghanistan and have done a job, either military or civil, who have said that it's important to get a proper review of the job they've done. It's in respect of those we need to do it. I believe that when we have had a political process that is so cohesive, when such a total expansion here today agrees that this was a job we should do, it is also much easier to carry out an evaluation that is complete and independent, without anyone feeling that someone should be put to the wall for some of the things that have been done. Then I have to attach a few words to the fact that we are now going to shift the attention of the military effort to the aid. Then the quality is important, and then it's important, what the Foreign Minister says about lifting the fight against corruption, because one of the cornerstones of building an open democracy is seaworthy to fight corruption. It is important that we commit ourselves in Afghanistan in the long term. We have too many examples of us going into the military, saying that we should go in with assistance in retrospect, and then disappear and leave people in the loop. We must not abandon the Afghans after we have entered the military. Then I think there's two k's that are important, that's k for knowledge and k for women. Investing in an education system is one of the keys to getting out of poverty, and the same is to bet on women. Building democracy is also part of the fight against poverty, and all of this must be linked. Then I have 19 seconds left of my plenty of allocated speaking time in this debate. I would like to say something more about veterans. What I think is important in the future is to realize that those who get problems after staying abroad, often aren't the ones that you think get problems, and have a scheme that both ensures that things can happen for a long time afterwards, and that it can come where you don't expect it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e997	Just to Left's suggestion, which I forgot to comment on in my first post. We support the intention, but like very many others, we don't think the time is ripe for it. It needs to be promoted again, and then it needs our support. So to another theme that also deserves attention. What are we doing about the financial situation of the security forces in Afghanistan? I know it was a theme at the Chicago meeting. That's what I think is the key to success for the extraction, because there's something that can cause concern, and that's going to cause concern, is if employees in the Army, in the Defense or in the Police suddenly become uncertain whether they have their income when it does and it happens when ISAF leaves the area. I know you've been working on finding models, and that's absolutely crucial, I mean, to reduce the possible vacuum it's been talked about before in the debate. So it would have been tempting -- it might be scary at the end of the debate, but it's been nice and pretty, this, maybe it's been predictable too, if you can say so -- to ask if we're good enough to discuss the difficult things. There has been incontrovertible little talk about the Taliban and the Taliban's role. Is there a Norwegian dialogue with the Taliban today? Should we have it? What do we do when we leave, if the Taliban brutally settles in Afghanistan again? So what do we do? Shall we wait and see, or shall we dare to take a discussion about the possibilities and about what may happen in the future? I perceive that this is something we silently leave behind for various reasons. Corruption – how clear do we dare to be about it? The episode in Kabul Bank, how a substantial amount of money disappeared – what do we do with those who did it? How far do we dare to go in expressing criticism when a Member of Parliament happens to have lying one-two-tonne with white powder in his cellar, which he is not sure is his own? Do we do anything about that? Do we dare to challenge enough on these things? Or are we concerned about sailing in sparse waters? I'm no expert in Afghanistan, but if there's something I've learned when I've been there, it's that they have a great ability to focus on the positive. I think it's actually also the way they give more respect to people who dare to say their opinion directly over the table, even if they don't agree, than to people who are going about when difficulties appear. I had the pleasure of meeting the Afghan Minister of Education at dinner in the direction of the government when he was here recently. He is a eloquent gentleman who is very clear on what he wants. He was perhaps less clear when he was challenged by the representative from the U.D. who was present, but all in all I perceive that the openness between the Afghan authorities, Afghan politicians, and Norwegian politicians is good, and that is a good prerequisite for success in the cooperation further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1012	The representative Ine M. Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1015	I'm just taking the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding. I do not know if the representative Trine Skei Grande heard well enough after I spoke, but I did not in any way express any distrust of those who are auxiliary workers or serve as soldiers in Afghanistan today, on the contrary. What I said was that our challenge now is primarily to focus on the tasks to be done in an extremely demanding situation and time. Then, in my opinion, it is not reasonable that at the same time many resources should be associated with a large evaluation. It is precisely because I believe it would be a wrong signal to send to auxiliary workers and soldiers: in the middle of the demanding phase they are up on the ground in Afghanistan, we have our attention elsewhere, namely on the evaluation of the efforts they are making, not to ensure that the final phase of their work is as successful and as secure as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1022	It is clear that I must have hit something during my post. My intention was not – and I think I said that quite clearly – to play word games and polemics, but on the contrary to expressing a sincere pleasure at the fact that the debate has changed in ten years. I could have named many more of the representatives who recently made statements on Afghanistan and solutions for the country that is already appearing to be quite embarrassing. So I didn't choose to do that. So it's so clear that the SV's position has changed over these ten years, as Right, as the Progress Party and as the Workers' Party. It's natural over such a long period. But then it's quite remarkable to see the lack of self-reflection that follows these changes, especially from the bourgeois parties. The representative of Højbräten and the representative of Eriksen Soreide would like to think that the behaviour of Minister of Foreign Affairs Petersen and Minister of Defence Krohn Devold was primarily marked by humility in the autumn of 2001. I think quite a few outside the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will agree with them. It's clear that the Right has also moved politically during this period. There is no need to go back further than until 2009, when the Right considered that a solution for Afghanistan was totally out of date, which meant negotiating with all parties, including the Taliban. It was the opposite of ‘faning with the white flag’ to quote Jan Petersen. In 2006 party leader Erna Solberg chattered with the term ‘a UN-led world order’ in an attack on foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre in a chronicle in the evening post. Now the term ‘a United Nations-led world order’ is anchored in the Right Program. It's a joyous development. This is not just about polemics, it is about pointing out that this process and this debate that we conduct every year in the United Kingdom actually leads to real political changes in Norwegian foreign policy. Eriksen Soreide finished his post with something in the direction that our soldiers deserve better. At least she attached my contribution to our soldiers in Afghanistan. I think we should have a debate at a better level than that, and I think it is quite clear from my original post what I mean about ‘our soldiers in Afghanistan’. I also think our soldiers deserve better than a debate in which they are used as rhetorical instruments, and I think they deserve us to have an honest debate where we dare to disagree on important foreign policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1035	I do not intend to lengthen the debate unnecessarily, but the representative Serigstad Valen now repeats and shows the intervention he made at the beginning of the debate, where he is sure to make it clear that there was a total lack of humility in relation to the task he entered when the operation in Afghanistan was started. I sat in the government that made the difficult decision, and I don't know myself again in these light descriptions at all. I would also like to say that when it comes from SV, who through the period they have been in government, has had so much trouble admitting the actual state of things, namely that Norway has been a participant in a war, and has shown the kind of double communication it has been that inside the Chamber you have voted to send the soldiers out, while you have had leading representatives from your own party – large-scale representatives – demonstrating in the lawn outside at the same moment, you might want to lower your voice a little bit and nuance yourself a little more than what I think the representative Serigstad Valen has done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1042	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1056	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and member of Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines up to six lines with replies following the insertion of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1067	In a brave attempt to be a good example, I naturally jogged to the office today. The inspiration was of course great when I passed old, venerable Frogner skate stadium. The Russians, the Dutch and not least the Swedes, in their time, had great challenges with our three legendary S-s: Storholt, Stensen and Stenhemmet. Today, when this message about education for well-being and public health – I will add – is being addressed, it is natural to think of our good colleague Are Health's rewriting, that public health and well-being also have challenges with the three S's, namely cigarettes, sugar and the sofa. Greetings are so definitely a part of the wallpaper of this message. In any case, as rapporteurs, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive work on the political handling of the notification. It is that I have experienced that the members of the Committee and the various political parties have a constructive desire to present the political challenges that naturally lie in such work when new policies are to be developed. This has been done within the limits of a direction message that this will naturally set. If many of the changes need to be made, it is not possible to say concretely and in detail today how they will turn out. First, the education sector and all the relevant actors, such as employers’ and employees’ organisations, shall contribute to the important development work to be carried out. It is the services and organisation of those who are the basis and the governing force for this conversion of education. This is how the message has seen education and research as the main theme. Although some points are specific and clear, the Committee's setting indicates that the message is very much about the direction in which the training will be converted. So that's a direction message. Some of the Committee's points, which are of a long-term and new nature, are the clear role of the research. There is a great need to strengthen the knowledge base for both education and training through practical research. This interaction between education, research and service activities is an important tool in the changes the message points to. To further underline the centrality of this, I would like to point out that the Norwegian Research Council will be tasked with creating a research programme to develop health and welfare services on the one hand and health and social education on the other. For this to work in a good way, several national research institutes will also be established linking fellows within the same disciplines at different institutions. A joint committee warns in its comments that we can move towards a time when there is a shortage of staff in the health, nursing and care sectors if we do not have the power to prevent better, so that fewer people become patients. It is shown that the cooperation reform well draws a challenge image and a new direction for Norwegian health care, with a focus on prevention of health work, better interaction in the sector and the development of more and better health services in municipalities. In order to achieve the objective of more holistic services and a better provision for the individual, the government has implemented major reforms, such as the Nav reform and the Cooperation Reform. Child protection has been reorganised to strengthen professional provision and to provide a more equivalent offer throughout the country. But this is not enough. Education must respond to the competence needs of services and users. It's actually different from Meld. St. 13 Welfare Education is to be handled here in Stortinget today. A joint committee points out that the cooperation reform will impose new requirements on health professionals. This will require changes to the content of education and not least new knowledge through research. Vocational training shall be research-based, and the Committee believes it is important to strengthen the link between education, practice and R & D also in shorter professional training courses. The Committee also points out that it is important to establish a good factual basis with regard to the future needs of health professionals and that the educational capacity is adapted to them in a good way. As a case spokesman, I think it's right to stop when it comes to questions about the dimensioning of individual education. A Joint Committee welcomes the proposal to introduce a new model of health and social education in continuing training, where training at school and on-the-job training takes place throughout education and training. This will replace today's two-year model on the squab and two years of practice. Testing this new model will be an important step towards increasing the motivation for the implementation of education. A new testing scheme of the ‘Y’ road has also been introduced in order to enter higher health and social education. In the case of a possible trial of general study competence such as the admission criterion for health and social education, the majority in the Committee, the members of the Government Party, ask that such experiments be conducted in close dialogue with the collective bargaining parties. A Joint Committee is busy with high quality education, so that students acquire good and relevant competences. Today, this is controlled by a framework plan for several of the relevant education systems. But the Committee has noticed that today’s framework plans are weak. They have only partially been closed down to ensure the quality of educational institutions; they prevent institutions from exercising their professional autonomy, and they provide little opportunity for services to influence education. In the further assessment of any new management tool, these weaknesses need to be corrected. The Committee points out that although much is good today and that Norwegian public health is consistently good, there are challenges in education in a range of areas. The aim of the message is for education to respond to the competence needs of the services at present greater than before. We see this particularly in relation to greater attention to cross-professional cooperation. The main model of health and social professional training in higher education is therefore to be further developed with broad basic education and specialisation at the continuing education and master level. Another area that will increase focus is knowledge of our welfare and management system. Keywords here will be knowledge of public health, children's development and growth, working life, inclusion issues and equality in a broad sense, to mention a little of the topic. When it comes to strengthening education, I would also like to draw attention to the work of people with complex needs: rehabilitation and rehabilitation, mental health and alcohol, violence, abuse and carelessness, and job-right qualification programmes for groups with special needs and follow-up. However, if this is to be closed, the Committee would point out that the study of health and social practices needs to be of greater quality and relevance. The Committee has noted that the government will develop indicators of what characterises good quality and relevance in practice studies. In addition, the Committee has noted that the government will consider setting out requirements for guidance and a statutory obligation for all health and welfare services to provide advice to pupils and students. The opposition party would rather use a positive tool by the government until the last proposal on the legalisation of the obligation to set up practical places. Overall, there is a relatively large consensus about the large lines of the message. The direction of the conversion of education is the agreement, but the opposition has chosen to make more concrete statements than the multiple in some areas. The majority are waiting for some of these themes and refer to the long-term development work to be undertaken by the authorities, together with all relevant parties. Finally, I would like to refer to the recommendation from the Committee. When it comes to the ten proposals from the minority, I expect them to be represented by the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1114	After attending, when Tora Aasland, the then state councillor, presented Melding. St. 13, I had really great expectations of the government's ambitions to ensure as quickly as possible that the changes that are feasible in both health and social education were implemented, and that welfare technology was implemented as soon as possible. This has not been fulfilled by the government parties. St. Report. 13 for 2011–2012 Interplay in practice provides a thorough and factual description of the current situation and challenges in the healthcare sector and of the provision of welfare management. In addition, the notification makes it apparent that changes need to be made to all health education, at all levels, by the introduction of new technologies in the health and social fields. Several people find different chronic diseases, and we live longer. In many cases, this leads to a major complex need for assistance. In addition, projections show that if we do not make changes in the way we solve the sector's tasks, every fourth youth will have to take health education in 2025. If we go another ten years, the number is every third youth on a national basis. Of course, this is no sustainable development. This is why it is so important that we take urgent action to combat development. This is based on both good public health information on preventive health work and on new ways of solving these problems. The Progress Party is in favour of transforming the content of education so that they become somewhat more multidisciplinary than they are today. It is important for patients that the different health workers have basic knowledge of the content of the education of other health workers. In this way, workers with different education can be a good team that complements each other’s competences, while benefiting the patient. In order to achieve this in the best possible way, the Progress Party welcomes the development of a common training framework in cooperation with educational institutions and employers. At the same time, the Progress Party considers it important to stress that the multidisciplinary must not go at the expense of the specific characteristics of each subject. The notification is clear that there is a far greater need for cooperation between the university and higher education sectors and the employers' side in the health and care sector than is currently the case. The Progress Party believes that it is very important to increase the quality and relevance of education and to enhance the competence and quality of welfare services. Overall, the Progress Party believes that the communication is clear on the needs of health and welfare services, while providing many good solutions to the challenges. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence that the government is also suffering from a decision-making refusal in this case. In several areas, the communication is not concrete and binding. There is a great deal to consider, investigate or develop in retrospect – despite the fact that the message clearly shows that in some areas it is not a very good time. This applies both to the degree of completion of the studies and to the need for trained personnel. Despite the fact that the Nordics are well advanced in the use of technologies as private individuals, Norway is far behind other countries in incorporating the technology into the health and care sector. Here the Progress Party is impatient on behalf of the users. If technology had become much more widely used in the health sector, this would give health professionals more time for individual users. The government should immediately initiate an interaction between education and practice at a much earlier stage in education — both to make education more interesting and to prevent the so-called ‘practice’ that many people experience. The party of progress believes that government parties should use carrots instead of whips to provide apprenticeship places. The apprenticeship grant has not increased since the 1990s, and for small high-pressure institutions it is a challenge to provide apprentices with adequate follow-up. If, on the other hand, they had been funded so that we could deploy resources that could take care of the training, it could have given far more good apprenticeships. Increased apprenticeship grants are a socially useful investment. More and more suffer from musculoskeletal disorders, and a thorough investigation into the establishment of chiropractor training in Norway shows that this is needed. The Progress Party hopes that this will be a priority for the government in the further work. The Progress Party also supports the content of the Communication that flexible training courses are being made well known than they are today. We also want that the test of health education in specialised schools will mean that authorisation can be obtained. I would also like to remind you of the high rate of non-response and deletion in health education, which in some places is well above 40 pst. Action needs to be taken here. The Progress Party does not wish to impose recording requirements by requiring minimum characteristics, as there may be persons with good qualities who will be excluded because they do not have the math skills in order. Rather, the Progress Party will provide more opportunities to acquire the necessary knowledge prior to the study through an advanced course. This will strengthen recruitment and counteract non-response. Furthermore, we want the TAF health education system to become a far more searchable study offer in all countries. The Progress Party does not support the government's proposal to change medical training. We also record comments from the Health and Welfare Committee, where government parties are also somewhat sceptical about medical training. But we support the Medical Association, which stated during the consultation that this is a proposal that has not been highlighted in the process, despite the fact that the proposal will be a major change in the organisation of the medical study. This is a little in contrast to the rapporteur, who has done a good job in the matter, says that the government parties are so very concerned that the changes will take place in dialogue with interested parties. In this case, the Medical Association is completely overrun in such an important case. I find that something wonderful. For the Progress Party, it is also important to point out the changes that need to be made to both Nav and Child Protection in order to better adapt the supply to today’s needs in society. I am thus promoting the proposals that the Progress Party has on its own or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1154	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1157	Thanks to the rapporteur for a transparent review of the case. The report on education and training for well-being is an important message, and it covers a central, comprehensive and challenging theme – central to the provision of qualitatively good staff for basic services in a welfare society like ours, including so many and ever-increasing service needs, and challenging because we feel that the need for employees is far greater than what we are doing today. As a result, the sector is also developing a major lag in competence. It is good that everyone agrees that it is essential to maintain the quality of life that we as a welfare society have built up, that more people are stimulated to take such education, to further education and to remain in positions. This message puts the search light on the challenge, and it's very good. It is also very good that the message is so clear that there is a need for skills at different levels. It is therefore important to facilitate the recruitment of well-being professionals, both in secondary schools, colleges and higher education. In addition, flexibility is essential in order to give the greatest possible chance of completing education, re-election in education or re-establishing a lack of education. The right is pleased that this is a review tone in the message, although it is sometimes difficult to see that the fine words are followed up with concrete changes to give large counts in the recruitment of the profession. In the right, new pathways to education, such as the Y-way and the assessment of real skills, are important. The right appreciates the signals in the message which indicate that this is now much more possible. The right has also called for a more flexible recruitment strategy for foreign citizens who need to build up or formalise their skills. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for this today. The right is particularly pleased that the vocational schools are as clearly included as an important area of competence building and specialisation, since this is an offer that can and must be organised and adapted to the individual districts in order to provide the necessary competence. The right is also aware of the signs of extending vocational training to a greater extent than at present. While it is positive that the different training courses within the same main field are getting a better understanding of and about each other's subjects, we will strongly warn against this happening by reducing the time spent in professional immersion in individual education. The feedback is many of the major shortcomings in the expertise of trained staff. Changes in individual education therefore need to strengthen professional knowledge. The right disagrees with the government in the proposal to change the model of medical training. We cannot see that this proposal is justified by a need for change and is sceptical about what this will do for the implementation rate of full medical study. In the right, such a change would reduce predictability in securing sufficient trained doctors. The Medical Association warns against experimenting with the education, and we suggest that the medical study be maintained as today. Research as a basis for further development of welfare services and education for welfare professionals is important and needs greater attention. This has also been addressed by several educational institutions, and it is particularly gratifying to see that the three new universities in Agder, Nordland and Rogaland have joined forces and will establish a common research environment for the professional professions in the welfare professions. It will be exciting to follow this work further. Good interaction between work and services, research and education promises good for the development of the service provision. In summary, the Right is pleased that the Storing Communication opens up several measures that we have proposed several times together with the other opposition parties, but nevertheless recalls that a message with conclusions such as ‘assessing changing’ or ‘estimated need’ cannot in any way be regarded as a predictable tool either for potential students or for educational institutions. It is now important for action to be taken and for governments and departments to actively follow up on the measures outlined. Action is urgent if we want to maintain the welfare offer, and we do! Finally, I address the proposals that have not yet been addressed, where the right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1185	The representative of Svein Harberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1188	The education of today's and the future's welfare professionals is one of the basics that must be in place and that must work in order for us to have the welfare society of the future. The key pillars to make it happen are to get employees with good and basic professional skills, better cross-professional cooperation and quality of health and care provision for the future. The Committee's position endorses many of the solutions to the future's well-being, although, as some others have pointed out, it could be more committed. I do not have time in my post to go through the entire content in detail, but will bring forward some of the things that have been important to the Christian People's Party in the work on this message. Cross-professional cooperation training, known as TPS, shall be introduced as part of the practical studies. This I think could be a very good project. Although some have been afraid of losing their own professional identity — there have been some of the concerns that have arisen — the communication to research shows that it is often the opposite. In cooperation with others through the study practice, students gain a better understanding of their role in a team on which to work when seen in conjunction with other cooperating professions. This is an exciting project that I think can help us get better interaction across the board. The Christian People's Party has also challenged the big parties to have a slightly clearer focus on professional ethics in the setting than the one contained in the government's message. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the Government for their constructive approach to this debate. We should probably also wish that the government had put in place a few more concrete measures to increase the ethical reflection of professionals in the face of the people they work with. These measures should be addressed in higher education, vocational schools and higher education. The practice of education needs to focus more on ethical competence. This will, for example: with and prevent the unnecessary use of coercion. I'm talking about a professional ethics approach that not only focuses on the right and wrong practice of the profession, but takes seriously the general ethical commitment of professionals to meet the needs of the people they work with. We need employees who not only act automatically after a job description but show an ethical and moral responsibility for their own actions in meeting people, regardless of instructions. Education must facilitate the training of conscience and greater awareness of border crossings. The reason why this is so important is that some of the feedback both to the health services and perhaps also to Nav offices and other welfare systems is not only on little financial support, but also on how a person experiences the treatment itself. How are we going to build the qualities and habits that make an employee meet with a client or a patient become good? It's not about becoming so professional that you forget to include your own experiences, attitudes and actions that make us react and think like fellow humans. There's a need for awareness in education to take care of it. Professionalism must contain self-reflection, truth, justice and courage. The latter also applies, to the greatest extent, to those who are going to work with morbid children. It has not mentioned this either. Today, some 3,000 death - stricken children with relatives do not receive palliative treatment. There is a lack of competence in health care. Those who are to work with dying children, whether at home or in institutions, need competence in both clinical, psychological and ethical matters, which are part of this activity. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the competence for palliation towards children is included in the education of health professionals. These are some of the things that have been important to the Christian People's Party in the processing of the message, and I'll come back to some more in a three-minute post later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1205	We have come a long way since Left Lady Fredrikke Marie Qvam started to train nurses in Norway and establish the nursing profession as a separate profession. I think she might have been impressed by the progress of the subjects, but I also think she might have disagreed with parts of the government's message at those points where it says that you should just "estimate" and "examine" and take over. I think she had great ambitions on behalf of the professions she was in and left the foundation for in Norway. The questions we have today are not just about the quality of our healthcare system. It's also about the status of important professions, yes, it's actually a lot about gender equality policy. There is a lot of gender equality policy in the proposals we are discussing today, because many of the subjects we are discussing today are chosen by women as education. It's important to give them status, and it's important to give them the weight they want. So I think that health policy is one of the most effective issues in what we adopt. Take the example of the representative Eriksen used in this respect in terms of coercion. We can adopt major objectives in terms of the use of coercion within, for example: psychiatry, but we know that the most effective thing we have is wise, good employees, who are good professionals. It is the most effective measure we can take when it comes to coercion. This is how we can participate by participation in health and welfare – we achieve the best results we want here, by having wise, good professionals with good professional support. Therefore, this message is important. I want to address three major aspects, but I'm just going to comment on them briefly. One is the importance of strengthening social and child protection education and training and ensuring that they also receive the strengthening and research associated with them that increases our status, but also that those who come out get a great deal of professional weight. Therefore, the Left has accepted the proposal on character requirements. It's not because we're going to make it harder to get in initially, but we're going to lower the strike rate among those who come in. I think the character requirements are going to lead to some educational maybe going an extra round before they start their college/vocational education. I think that's going to bring down the iron percentage of those who go on the field. I think that's good for them, it's good socio-economic, and it's professionally good. The last proposal on which the Left has been very concerned is the strengthening of the whole school health service and the commitment to health sisters. I think it's one of the keys to getting on with many of the social challenges the school is facing, and where the teachers aren't necessarily the best to solve them. Then it's important to expand the school health service. It is important for young people and psychosocial problems. We see an increase in psychiatry-related problems in young people, and we also see problems related to drug use. In very many of these problems, the health sisters are dramatically much better than the teachers to go in and help. Although many teachers make a wholehearted effort to get many kids on the right track, it is clear that with a health education – along with the teachers – they can help make the difference in a youth’s life. Then it's important to have qualified health professionals, but it's also important to train many enough to fill the school health service jobs as at least we in the Left have ambitions to have in the future. Then we have to have ambitions to have many who come out with health-sister competence. I have also visited some nursing care services related to childbirth and the follow-up of mothers with drug problems, such as us. Sees in Bergen. We see an enormously good effect of the job that wise, good health sisters do by following up throughout pregnancy and in the years to come. It doesn't just make children grow up well, but it also makes people get out of a drug problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1222	In the welfare field, we are facing major challenges as a society with regard to recruiting enough personnel for the sector over the years to come. It is also a challenge to adapt education to the changes we want to make in the health and social field. Therefore, this message on welfare education is an important message. The goal is knowledge-based services that put the user at the centre and contribute to better health and well-being in the population. Education and research shall reflect the competences that society needs. Interaction reform is a policy reform within health. The growth of health services is mainly to be done locally in municipalities. Therefore, education needs to be changed, so that students get more of their practice in the community health service and not in hospitals, as at present. It might be close to thinking that we can only import the labour we need in the welfare field. But it's not that simple. I am pleased that the government has committed us to the ethically correct recruitment of workers from other countries. The World Health Organization believes that there is a global lack of 4.3 million health workers. The gap is greatest in developing countries. Norway shall not have an active and systematic recruitment from poor countries that lack health professionals themselves. We have a moral responsibility to expand our own health workers in large enough amounts. Some occupations in Norway have, or will face, greater recruitment challenges than others. I would particularly like to refer to the health professionals as there will be a major shortage in the years to come — if statistics fail. The decline in education is great. This is why it is great that the message outlines new educational pathways for health professionals, where students can switch between school and company training throughout the education cycle. It is also positive that schemes can be tried out so that health and social education can provide a basis for admission to further education through the so-called Y-way. The TAF model for health professionals, with which one has good experience in Hordaland, is also a very interesting way of training for health professionals. It is also important for education and training in health and social sciences that we focus on providing a whole range of options and providing them with low-paid and often women with an economic boost, not least a status lift. We all have a responsibility to lift the work done near the patient, and to value the care professions and care services higher than is the case today. Campaigns, such as the health professionals campaign, are an example of a collaboration between KS, Specter and Work. The ratio of width competence to specialised competence will also be an important area of clarification in the future. The Directorate for Health has been given the task of reviewing the organisation and conditions of training of health professionals and, in particular, of reviewing and evaluating the need for changes in current specialist training of doctors. There is currently no correlation between the medical specialist structure and the needs of the healthcare service. Increases in specific patient groups require new specialities. It's e.g. a high level of specialisation in drug use to enhance the competence of drug users in primary education. The same applies to old age medicine. There is a need for specialisation in health care and to strengthen the competence of the elderly in primary education. Nor does the specialist structure of larch support the needs of the decentralised hospital structure that we have today. Existing specialist structures allow local hospital security to become personnel intensive, and help to ensure that small local hospitals have difficulties in maintaining their breadth and alertness. Thus, the future need for health and care professionals is great. Therefore, increasing focus is on everyday rehabilitation, with several ergot therapists in the health service, using a model from among others. Fredericia in Denmark – important. This is precisely the basis for the Cooperation Reform itself. Welfare technology is another point that will address some of it boosts the need for well-being. Welfare technology must be integrated into the provision of municipal services, in basic training and in practice, so that all are guaranteed practical training in the use of new technologies. Equally, developments require better integration and clarification of the position of the relatives and their contributions in this area. A total of 100,000 annual works are carried out by volunteers, mainly the family, in the health and care sector. Future welfare personnel in education need to be trained to cooperate and work with the relatives and make their voluntary efforts useful. Finally, a line to the representative Bente Thorsen from the Progress Party. It is true that the government party in the Health and Welfare Committee has submitted a comment asking for proposals for changes in medical training to be clarified more closely before taking a final position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1255	I think that almost case rapporteur Tor Bremer had some horn music in his chest today when he presented the Committee's position! That's what I think is right, because this is a very important attitude and a big message about what kind of perspective we're going to have, and how we're going to succeed in making the societal changes that we see are absolutely necessary. And it's a tribute to the employees who work in health and care, because it's they -- their competence and the way they practice their professions -- who decide whether we succeed in our political action. We must implement a strong strengthening of child protection. We only get that if the people who work in child protection have the right skills. We need to implement an interaction reform. We only get that if those who work in health care have the right skills and cooperate in the right way. We're in the middle of a big Nav reform. We only get that if the people who work there have the right skills and work the right way. Then we have to think of education and research as a very important part of the political transitions and projects that we want to implement. It is not like the employees who are going to do the job come from anywhere. They come from the educational institutions. They shall have knowledge from the research and shall cooperate in such a way that they have an overview of their own and those of others. And all of this we're going to three together. So we really have to think about many more areas, but today it's "Education for Welfare." Interaction in practice’, which is the title of what we are doing. Several speakers have pointed out that there is no small challenge ahead of us. In 2025, i.e. in 13 years, in just a short time, is 16 pst. of the population of Norway, nearly one million people, over 67 years of age. A quarter million will be over 80 years. This is not going to be any 67-year-olds; this is going to be people who have grown up in the Norwegian welfare state, who know very well what they need, and who have excellent – at least many – will set clear demands on how they want the services they need to be. If we were to follow up with the same kind of work that we are doing today, every four young people aged 20-25 had to choose to work in the health and social sector. Probably they're not going to do that. When we get to 2035, it is every three, ergo we have to develop the way we work, ergo we have to develop the skills we are preparing, ergo we have to work smarter and think differently about this – preventive and in every way possible. For the education system, this means that we need advanced education, because health professionals are a very important resource in all health work. But today we manage to combine theory and practice too poorly, and we lose too many of the health professionals along the way. That is why we are betting on the exchange model, which is to follow up this big message, which is an offer for young people who are taking the training, but which must also be a way of ensuring that adults who start out as unskilled or who might start out as unskilled are given the opportunity to take a professional letter. Then we're going to have a competence need across the board and need a common content. That's something that permeates the whole big message, because we see today that there are a lot of skills needs that go beyond what we have today and that do not follow what is today's professional qualifications limits. I fully agree with the representative Dagrun Eriksen in – I think she was the one who was involved – that there is nothing that threatens the professionals, something that develops the professionals. For you become so much more aware of what you are contributing yourself into a community, and what other occupational groups contribute into a community. In this way, better cooperation, better knowledge of each other's competences and better interaction can be achieved. What is the review tone of the Storing Communication is the interaction between education, between educational levels and between education, research and professional activities, and that is what is essential for us to be able to achieve the skills that the service needs. Then we have the research on one side and the practice on the other. The two are couples if, in sum, we're going to be able to get out with the skills that are going to be crucial if we're going to succeed in a welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1279	The progress party had really great expectations that the government really wanted to do something about this matter. Report. St. 13 contains many good solutions to health and social challenges, which it is important to implement as soon as possible. There has been broad agreement among all those who have spoken so far. Still, it's very little concrete. Everything shall be assessed, investigated and developed over a long period of time. It sounds very good, but my question to the Council of State is this: Is there really nothing in the message that the Council of State will start as soon as possible? Is there nothing we have come so far that it is possible to put it into practice already now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1284	That's despite all of the big messages. We are in the situation today that we are dealing with a big message. I'm very happy that there's such a broad consensus about the direction, because it's a guideline. Then, of course, we're already in the process. For example, I want to bring out health professionals' training, because there we have a big challenge. Many of those taking part in health education alternate or fall from and choose something else. We know that they would be a very important resource in health in the future. So this is going to have a special focus in evaluating the knowledge message, and we're already working on how to get a better solution to it -- this is just an example of a lot of concrete things that we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1291	I think what came from the state council here was little concrete, as the message contains so many good solutions to the challenges we have. But then this message also requires the government parties to interact in order to succeed. Can the Storting be sure that there are no unlisted and bad interactions that make it impossible for the government to make concrete proposals as to when to put the content of the message into action?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1298	I'm not quite sure if I understood that question. We agree, of course, on the direction of this big message. It's a lot of work that's going on and that's going to be done in the years to come, if we're going to work together across and within different professional training courses, if we're going to get a combination of practice in education and if we're going to have the ethical reflection. Several have been concerned — what to say — with the kind of professional identity and attitude involved in many groups that are in a difficult and vulnerable situation and need health care assistance. So the representative of Thorsen can be absolutely sure that here we are very much in agreement on the direction – there is no disagreement about it – and we are in full swing with the job that the Storing Message already points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1307	The Council of State is concerned about clarifying that this is a policy message, and that is, as she herself repudiates, the common feature of big business messages. Nevertheless, there are some things that have become more concrete. One of the things is medical training. We in the Right have looked very much at the basis for proposing changes in that education and a professional justification for it, and we have not been able to find the good reasons. So my question to the Council of State is, on what basis has the government taken the initiative to change the medical training and incorporated it into this notice of amendment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1316	Those thoughts have started at the universities. It is perhaps the University of Bergen that has come most into the idea of offering a 3+3 race, with a bachelor's degree and a master's degree. It's because there may be some students en route who find out that there was, however, not full medical training that was best suited, but a Bachelor's degree, which can be combined with other educations. Or it could be that someone finds out that you can use a bachelor in medicine in combination with, for example, more administrative tasks. A large part of the health service may have benefited from the improved knowledge and understanding of it by some administrative staff. We have some experience from Denmark, which has offered this. It has shown that there are a small number of students who have graduated from a bachelor's degree and have not completed a master's degree. But this might be something that it's interesting to discuss further with the institutions and the professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1323	Professional studies and research — and their combination — are one of the key pillars of the Communication. The Communication mentions measures to cater for the old universities. The new universities, in Agder, in Nordland and in Stavanger, have established a cooperation agreement on research-based further development of the most central education mentioned in the Communication. They also have study programs that are very central, and have been running this for a long time. Therefore, it was with some wonder that the new universities were not mentioned, and that their comparative advantage was not used as an advantage in the work of training for the welfare professions of the future. So my simple question to the Council of State is, was it a forgetfulness, and will they be taken further into the work to bet on the new welfare professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1334	New universities have made a significant contribution to the further development of vocational education and training, and they have a significant role to play in these areas. So they're a completely obvious part of the bet further forward. Then I will not foreshadow how to allocate different – what to say – assignments, or funds, in the context of further budgets, research programmes or that kind of thing. It is clear that here they – and some of the colleges as well – sit on a very important competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1341	I agree with the speakers who have thought that only one point is accurate – and something exactly above. At the same time, I must say that as this debate goes on, I am becoming more and more uncertain about both the one and the other. In the case of medical studies, the question is: How does the Council of State interpret the possible support of this change, how will the Council of State follow up, and what is the time perspective – what is it really saying? For now, the Council of State is talking about UiB being able to offer this. But I don't think I'm the only one who has interpreted the Council of States and the message there that this isn't just something that UiB should be able to offer, but that this change also applies to UiO, UiT and NTNU. So I feel like the Council of State has to explain whether she thinks she has the consent of the Storting to do the grips she's proposing, what she's actually going to do, and which universities this is going to apply – and whether it's going to be volunteering or coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1351	The background of the wish I have explained. There may be some students who have found out that they have chosen incorrectly, but who still want to quit and take a bachelor that they can combine with other things. We don't think there are a large number of people who want to start medicine, and then it's not desirable that there be a large number of them, because this is a course of study that requires considerable competence in the field of medical training. But there has been a desire from educational institutions to be able to offer a 3+3 solution. It is then necessary to engage in dialogue with the educational institutions and with the professionals. I think that in a very harmonious and good model you can manage to land this in a way that is not particularly conflicty, because the most important competence and instruction in medical studies we need to train doctors. So there might be someone who, in combination with other types of education, can benefit from a bachelor's degree.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1358	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1361	Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012, Welfare Education, unlike most other messages, has a sub-title that reads: Interplay in practice. It's a headline as striking as the headline. As has been said so many times before, everything is related to everything. The more ambitious we are on behalf of society and society, the more complex and complex society will be. The consequence of that is that we all have to go further and work differently than before. If we are to cope with this, it must be in interaction and interaction between different occupational groups, between different departments and between different institutions – when we are to provide welfare services. We have had major reforms of welfare services in recent years, in particular the Nav reform, which several speakers before me have highlighted. It was comprehensive and demanding, but correct — and especially in a longer-term perspective. Interaction reform is another type of reform and a key to improving the supply of sick and caregivers. The changes in services represented by these two reforms require new ways of working. It requires a different mix of in-depth competence and interdisciplinaryness from what students are currently trained to, and requires different occupational groups to cooperate in new ways. This puts education systems to the test. Why is it that those who are currently trained in health and social matters become competent enough for the tasks that await us and the requirements that we have? The answer is no. Education needs to be changed. This message deleted the course in this way. The various professional groups must continue to have sound core competences in their fields of competence, but they must also have knowledge of the whole. System understanding must go hand in hand with understanding. To a greater extent, they also need to master skills such as inter-disciplinary cooperation, high ethical awareness and evaluability, ability to communicate with users, patients and relatives. More than before, they meet will have a different cultural background, and user involvement will have a more central place. This is the reality that employees meet. This is the competence we expect is in place. Therefore, education must be filled with a corresponding content. Another important characteristic that will be required of all occupational groups, including the professional groups of the welfare country, is change competence. Of course, candidates must be able to enter the profession they have chosen, as it is today, but they must also be able to take on new knowledge, develop further professionally, reflect on their own professional practices and take on relevant and new research. Knowledge must be made alive. Dead knowledge that is not used has little value. In this way, the combination of research-based knowledge and practices is crucial for mastering these professions. New models need to be developed here, new teaching started, and practical time needs to be used and taken seriously both at educational institutions and at the host community, i.e. employers. It is essential to succeed in the services that the working groups learn together. In addition, quality has to be increased. We have to dare to admit that there is still a lot to go on in terms of quality in many of our educations. Quality is variable, and the interaction between education, research and working life could be closer, and should be improved. Here is also a key to getting down the dropout among students, and among other things. The representative of Thorsen mentioned in his statement that there was too high a drop-off. Developing quality in the studies is taking students seriously and probably the most important cure for falling away from young people and students. I think it is positive to see the initiatives taken locally to solve some of these problems. The universities of Nordland, Agder and Stavanger have already been mentioned in the debate. They are now working systematically to further develop these welfare training courses, with a focus on research. I hope several educational environments are inspired to improve the quality of both research and education. We are totally dependent on this message being followed up locally. We rely on local initiatives that benefit from the good news work done here and the setting that we will adopt today. The working party thus has great hopes for what this message leads to. I believe and hope it will be inspiring and mobilizing. On behalf of the population, Biggest has high expectations and demands for a welfare state that is under change and to some extent under pressure. If we are to be able to deliver good services to high quality, we must have skilled labour in these professions. This message deleted the course in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1382	There is a lot of talk about the course for the time being, both a bad course and a different course. However, I agree with the speakers who have said – as the rapporteur also said – that this is a direction report. I might wish on some points that you were clearer, that you had come further on how to implement a lot of the good vision. But we get from Stortinget's side to follow forward. One of the points that I thought was obvious above was the medical training, which I tried to include in my reply. I'm not so sure if it was as clear as I thought, either, and I'm so glad. If what you want – as I understand it before – is to make a national decision about how medical training in Norway should be, and then you hit institutions that don't have an interest in changing their order, then I'm very sceptical. But now the Council of State has said that this should be done both in dialogue with educational institutions and with the professionals out there. I'm very happy about that, because I think it's a much more constructive approach than many of us thought was already in the cards. I am pleased with that clarification and that this is not going to be something that is going to be pushed down the head of the major national actors in medical training. The interaction reform, which we have already started to implement so far, has shown us that there is a great and growing need for expertise out there, perhaps primarily within the academic groups at the bachelor level, but also for more competence in the groups with e.g. Master in Nursing. Then it's clear that we have to grab hold of it. The emphasis of Tora Aasland has been on working distribution and concentration in institutions. I think that's a very correct way of working with this, but then it's also necessary to set things right here, because if you've started nursing in the East, but you find out that you want to specialise more through such a system, you have to be able to switch educational institutions and take the rest – a year number two or three – at another institution, abroad. It's not given today, so we'll probably have to work more with national framework plans, so this will make it easier for those who want it. It will be fully in line with what goes on cooperation, work distribution and concentration in higher education. So to non-response: non-response is probably not only justified by the lack of ability to change educational institutions. I think we can pick up a lot by working on quality in practice in health education. There's a lot to pick up, and it gives the students, the candidates, the opportunity to see the relevance of the education they take. If this is really done, I think we're getting rid of this sector. So there's a little disagreement on the right-hand side if we're going to introduce character requirements. The progress party would like to point to the success of the courses in the field of engineering training. There is no doubt that there is a job to do in terms of further engineering training, but the advances have been a success in technological education. I believe that we should look at how we can contribute to improving the skills of those who actually choose to start their health education. It will obviously help to reduce the drop-off. I must allow myself a little discretion. Last week, the Research Barometer was presented. There have been concepts such as ‘feeling’ about efforts in privately funded research and ‘high pressure’ in the debate on the description of publicly funded research in Norway. We spend 80 billion dollars every year on care. How this money is used – whether they are used as best as possible or not – we spend 150 million. kr to research. It's clear that reaches below 0.2 pst. consumption is used for research into whether or not the money is spent reasonably and for quality assurance of the offer is too poor. I think everyone agrees on that. Hydro 5 uses pst for comparison. of its turnover into research. I hope that's something we can come back to when we're going to discuss the research report in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1399	As has been pointed out by many, a major communication on education and training for well-being is an important one. Quality and competence are key to creating a sustainable welfare sector in the years to come. The SSB projections on the need for health workers are not always lucid reading. This is the last report, a reminder that in 20 years we will lack 85 000 health workers. There is already a shortage of professionals and skills in this sector, and there are too many unskilled. In addition, the implementation of the Interaction Reform has given municipalities new and larger tasks in the health and care sector. We don't just need more warm hands, we also need more – yes, many – wise heads. The competence of employees must be strengthened. We need new knowledge, so research also needs to be strengthened in several areas. An important question is also how to make these choices more attractive to young people and how to ensure that they have good jobs to do when they are trained. On the right, we believe that we need to reward skills, and we need to facilitate continuing education. We need to make it more attractive to make a career and meet those who work in the sector with a good employer policy. A study conducted under the auspices of Telemark Research for KS shows that competence pays off financially, it provides better services and more efficient use of resources, because people with the right and high skills work more effectively. In other words, fewer employees are needed. It's today 30 pst. unskilled in municipal health and care services. They do a formidable job, but they are charged with much more responsibility than they are required to take. Users in healthcare have complex disorders and needs, which requires a high level of staff competence. Therefore, the Right will now grant the qualification of 9500 unskilled and 2500 nurses. On the right, the government agrees that there is a need for a common basis for those working in the welfare sector. However, we are concerned that this will weaken the professional-specific educational groups. This is a concern expressed not least during the treatment of the Interaction Reform, which the government made a professional neutral reform. There is not only a risk of this being done at the expense of the quality of services, it is also a breakdown of the specific competences of many professional groups. Many who have gone on health-care lines in high school do not get apprenticeship when they need it. Therefore, the Right will strengthen the apprenticeship grant, improve the public sector to contribute with apprenticeship places and ensure that there are enough places for those who want it. We also want a pool of skills in the public sector to pay higher pay to the education groups. It wants to raise the status. It will make it more attractive to apply for these courses. If we are to raise the standard of health and welfare education, we need to raise the ambitions. The government has little problemed the high dropout from nurse training. We believe that the professional standard needs to be increased. We need to use the experience of teacher training to increase the quality of nurse training and to set character requirements for those who want it. It also wants the educational institutions and the Nursing Association. They consider it necessary to be able to carry out the study. In sum, the government should be commended for putting this topic on the agenda, but I am left with a feeling that in the health field, the valuation of the professional professional competence is not sufficiently clarified. It must be demonstrated through quality requirements in education, willingness to specialise and ambition for students and practitioners – with demands and opportunities for lifelong learning. If we are to get close to solving the challenges in the healthcare sector in the years to come, we will not be able to cope without highly qualified and competent professionals. We need to build Norway as a knowledge society in order to ensure well-being by ensuring more knowledge in school, focusing on research and innovation and enhancing the competence of the health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1414	Peace in 1945 brought happiness and optimism. Already nine months later, birth rates increased. Faith in a good future persisted, made visible in large children’s coals for many years – until the end of equality in home and working life, speeded up a few decades later. The big birth cohorts get old at the same time. By 2025 there will be a quarter of a million people over 80 years in Norway. Most will be cracking and doing very well themselves. It's a great story about good public health policy. But more than before will also need care. It shall be given by generations that are smaller in number. As has been said here, every fourth youth in 2025 could have to choose care professionals. The real challenge is determined by service standards. Today's standard gives one estimate – our implementation of Soria Moria is higher, and Soria Moria plus 1 pst. quality improvement makes the gap bigger than this. Such development is not sustainable. There won't be enough people left for school, commerce, industry, road construction and other things. Responses to such challenges have always been knowledge and innovation. Industry and service sectors have gone ahead. Well-being services are only in progress. That is why this big message is important, together with, for example: The interaction reform and the communication on innovation in care. In a short article, I'll draw out a few points. First, the Interaction Reform: Two of the key themes here are public health work and a professional strengthening of municipal health services. Public health work covers all sectors — case-by-case prevention, childcare for all, good child protection, alcohol policy and tobacco policy. The aim is to prevent disease, prevent suffering and help people to do what we want in the first place – to deal with them as far as possible in their own homes. When this is not possible, we will provide health and care services primarily where people live. In Norway, most live far from hospitals. It is self-valued that several good services are provided in the home municipalities. Point two – Innovation: Welfare services need many warm hearts and trained hands. But everything should not be done as before. The consequences of falls are the largest single cause for the elderly no longer being able to cope with themselves. We are, unfortunately, a society that takes human and economic advice to beg too little. Let me take another example - color contrasts: a shower curtain in the same color as the bathroom wall can be seen as a wall to lean against, with a fall. A third example: we use social alarms with 35-year-old technology. They alert the fixed telephone to be phased out, and they cannot open the door at the same time as the fire service or others are alerted. Point three: Research on the close welfare services. We have to ask: what are the problems? How do we solve them? We know that the research world also has a hierarchy of missharing of resources. Therefore, political priorities are needed to turn some of the efforts from specialised themes into issues of everyday life. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State put so much emphasis on research in its contribution here today. Point four: We need more bold debates on responsibility for our own health, for example. the difficult debates on alcohol. I also believe that we need fewer interior architects for the cosmetic design of our homes. On the other hand, we need a new profession of helpers that facilitate our homes to meet the normal changes in age in vision, hearing and mobility. No single education; no single part of the welfare state alone can solve the challenges for the future. Therefore, the subtitle of the message, Interaction in practice, is timely and important. In conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteur for reminding us of a reminder rule on three s-s in relation to public health. I want to introduce three p's, which I think all welfare education from time to time should look to: priority practice sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1433	It is a forward-looking big business message that we are dealing with today. The demographic changes we are facing in our own population mean at least three things. Firstly, we need to recruit better for the health and welfare professions. Secondly, we have to keep to the many good people who already choose welfare-related education. Thirdly, we need to do old things in the health and welfare sector in new and smart ways. As many have experienced, skills needs in the welfare sector have changed. It is then natural that training courses also change in order to keep pace with, and be relevant to, a daily life that is more complex, multi-disciplinary and multi-cultural than it has been before. A natural part of this is that innovation and entrepreneurship are now taking greater place in education. We need more innovation to solve the challenges of the future. Innovation and innovation skills shall be integrated into all higher education disciplines by 2012, but the basis will be laid even earlier. In any case, Eastern research has shown that emphasis on entrepreneurship in training contributes to more practical training, and we know that this is important for the motivation of many high school and high school students. The action plan on entrepreneurship in education is also central to this. Although it is the public welfare offer that is and will be the supporter and guarantor of our common well-being, it is important to develop new forms of cooperation between not least the country and the voluntary sector in order to complement the public offer. It provides breadth and variation, but it also develops quality, because new, innovative solutions are often easier to launch and test on a small scale than on large, common public services. Increased entrepreneurship is, in other words, also a focus on quality and quality development. In addition, it is important to ensure the recruitment of health and welfare training over time. Unfortunately, there are generally high figures for both non-response and transition to study preparation in the upper secondary vocational education programmes. This trend is particularly high in health and social sciences — and this is not how it can continue. Sometimes the absence can be explained by the student’s in-flight recognition that he/she does not fit into the education programme he/she has chosen. The student then makes a re-election. But many times it's about not being properly cared for or not having a solid enough basis for the education that you've gone out on. The New GIV project is relevant for all students at risk of falling from it, regardless of their educational programme. In 2013, about 6000 students will be included in this project. In addition, training in the common subjects should be more professionally organised, so that training is perceived as more relevant to the students taking part in professional programmes. In the health and social field, the health professionals campaign is also an important step towards raising interest and raising awareness. It's now within its fourth year. In addition, it will in future be easier to organise training in a different way in the health profession and in the child and youth professions. These are the two subjects of the ten welfare-relevant higher education programmes that are the most popular. We want a more systematic test of an exchange model where training is organised in smaller units with short, alternating periods in school and company. The exchange model integrates school and enterprise training better than the 2+2 model does, making it easier for students to see the learning of the school and the learning of the enterprise in the context. This supports students' motivation and can inspire others to complete. But let me add, in conclusion, that it is not sustainable if the gender distribution in the health and well-being subjects of high school continues as it is today, with a predominance of girls. The female proportion is almost 90 pst., with some variation between the different programme areas. Girls and women cannot carry the welfare society on their shoulders alone, so it is an important signal from the Ministry of Knowledge that more measures are needed to help recruit more boys and more men.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1454	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1457	Social reforms have now reached the education sector and the government has taken extensive action in the field of education. Disease and problems require solutions from several services, and the Communication provides for increased cooperation, broader common knowledge base, technologies such as tools and more flexibility, without discouraging knowledge in the individual field. That's good! Employees in welfare services are carriers of the Welfare Society for the Workers' Party. They gently carry my newborn grandson to the world. They wear heavy when dying is to be cared for. They carry a lot when people with complex, long-term and chronic diseases or major social problems need treatment, care and follow-up on the basis of an individual assessment. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of quality of welfare services in many areas, and this grip strengthens and improves. Employees have important tasks: healing, relieving, providing hope and content in their everyday lives and helping individuals to take responsibility for their own health, economics, our closest ones and our everyday lives. They should be there when our own responsibilities do not go hand in hand – this is Norway’s welfare model. Employees manage more than trade, involvement and professionalism. They have a social mission as community service managers. They shall contribute to more social equality and good, predictable and equivalent services in response to one and in the organisation of services, whether they be hospitalisations, medicines, housing support, daily allowance, children, rehabilitation or facilities. Its implementation requires the ability to reflect ethically, to cooperate and not least to know. Administrative and social security knowledge is therefore necessary in all courses. Knowledge of children and young people is mentioned under the heading ‘Children’s Protection’ and points out correctly that child protection is not only the responsibility of children and young people. All health professionals, Nav employees, hospitals and subsequently also members of the criminal service have a legal obligation to assess the needs of children. The law on public health does not define it, but if bad patterns are to be broken, childhood is important, especially in order to achieve the social objective of reconciling social differences in health and living conditions. I ask the Council of State to take into account the fact that children's needs are included in the follow-up work. The needs of children are not a specialist for those who are particularly interested. It is gratifying that the universities of Stavanger, Nordland and Agder have merged on research-based development of vocational training. The University of Agder also has good experience in conducting research into close cooperation between users, researchers and employees in the field of practice. Users are also employees and vice versa. This is important in strengthening professional training, and I expect the Council of State to know about these measures. If this isn't the challenge given.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1476	That the number of older people in Norway has increased, and will continue to increase in the years ahead, is not something we need to look at as a problem. It is also a sign that we as a society and welfare state have succeeded and that we have succeeded over time. At the same time, the success of the welfare state gives us new tasks of considerable importance, which will affect us all in the years to come. And we need a national effort if we're to succeed. The Storting Communication, Education for Welfare, deals with part of the solution, namely education. It is a major task in itself that about every four young people have to choose health and care as a career path in 2025 to meet their needs. For comparison, every sixth student today chooses such a career path. But if we don't offer good education and courses that meet actual needs, we can't expect students to choose these either. My claim is that the young people who want to take the important health and care training will go on lines – and programmes – that do not exist today. As I read the groceries message, it says far on the road the same thing. But this does not mean that we lack good professional environments, study courses and researchers today, on the contrary. This only means that tasks are increasing in scope, and that the requirement for interaction, multidisciplinaryism and holistic thinking is growing even further in the years to come. Looking at the University of Stavanger, my old university, I'm happy to be able to track a willingness to join in solving these problems. UiS already has studies in nursing, child protection and social work, which offer good opportunities to contribute positively to this work. It's a pleasure to know that perhaps the greatest eagerness for this is to be found in the UiS students. In its strategy for the UiS up to 2025, the student organisation StOr wants to create new courses of education in health, care and geriatry to be the main focus of the university. That zeal also shows that this task not only takes on the oldest generations, but also that my generation is engaged, wants to participate and wants you to succeed in solving this big problem. In the future, we need a greater focus on such initiatives, on the professional environments, on both the UiS and the other educational institutions. It is necessary to achieve the objectives of cooperation across professional environments, to create training courses that take into account the need to solve more tasks at once and to fill the concept of ‘welfare technology’ with real content. We need to keep going to the professional environments and students to find the solutions, and as politicians, we need to show the will to listen and act further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1491	I believe that this message is important for many of the reasons that have been put forward by others. It is important in terms of the Interaction Reform, important in terms of Health-Norway, but it is also very important in terms of Education-Norway. We had an interpellation here a few weeks ago to do youth with completed the degree letter in general prepared for study. There was some resentment in some parties, but I believe that with this message we are taking a step in that direction. In St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, universities and colleges were invited to offer Y-route to applicants with a degree in health and social sciences. It is now almost two years since we dealt with that message in Stortinget, with broad support from the majority of Storting, but that call has not been taken – no such offer has been made. It is therefore very gratifying that the government and the Grand Duchy now agree to carry out tests on Y-roads for candidates with vocational education and training in health and social matters, and that the government will also stimulate attempts to test Y-roads for children's and youth workers to be admitted to pedagogical and pre-school teacher education is also very good. The engineering study has good experience with the Y route, and companies report that those who have gone this way are often some of their best workers. I myself have worked in the e-work sector as a skilled worker. There we were often encouraged by engineers and management to take more education and seek jobs up the system. None of those who had these jobs felt that their education or position was less valuable even if there were to be someone with a letter or someone from the "golden" up and into those jobs. I believe that this culture is a good culture, and it is also a culture from which the professional groups we are discussing today have much to learn. We often hear that there are professional struggles and other things that dominate, perhaps especially in health care. I believe that there is a kind of thinking that stands in the way of a good health care system in the future. I am sure that the practical and theoretical experience you have as a child and youth worker or as a health professional makes you well suited to higher education. It wins the education, the individuals and society. Today, 50 pst jumps. by health professionals after two years, and by those taking preparatory studies, there are 20 pst. continuing in the field of health, i.e. having an interest in it. The path of professional letters is too long, and we're missing out on good people. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now taking action to get these into higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1509	It's an ambitious message we're handling here today. It shall draw up the framework for all existing health and social education so that society is able to meet the needs of the future with the right competences in these key welfare areas. The notification shall ensure the interaction between educational institutions, research and working life, it shall ensure that we meet the challenges of the Nav reform and the Cooperation Reform with the right competences at the right place, it shall contribute to filling phrases such as ‘lifelong learning’ with content, and it shall contribute to the smoothing of social health differences. It shall ensure that all patients and users of health and social services face appropriate competences at the most effective level of care. It shall ensure that, through knowledge, we will be more able to prevent, rather than repair, health damage. It shall ensure that we receive comprehensive treatment chains from appropriately qualified personnel. Can the message then respond to these challenges? Government parties clearly believe this, because they write in their note that they are satisfied that the notification responds to these challenges. Get it, whoever can. Mistakes of this government have been made, will not be reversed. Let me mention e.g. The colleges. In 2003, there was almost a cross-political consensus that it was a pleasure that one had finally managed to lift the vocational schools away from secondary education. Vocational schools were to be treated in the same way as other higher education institutions, for which the State was to be responsible. The trade schools were to receive their own state funding, it was said, and it was claimed that it was working in the department with such funding. But then came the famous regional reform and reversed everything. Vocational education was back between bark and wood, and funding is at least as unclear as before. The only thing that can save and further develop vocational education, so that they can be an essential part of future health and social education and an important contribution to reducing the number of unskilled in the sector, is that we have a government shift in 2013. It is also frightening that the government does not seem to take on board the changed need for a composition of skills that will have to report, among other things. as a result of the cooperation reform. ‘Prevention’ and ‘working day rehabilitation’ are key in this context. Institutional care must also be extended and strengthened for the sickest of the elderly. Today we see extensive medication without diagnosis. This unworthiness will only continue, as long as it is not added to a changed composition of competences, where experts are given the opportunity to exercise their profession in a proper manner. The projections models used by the government in this Communication do not take these conditions into account. It's scary. The need for continuing training and specialisation in primary health services, as a result of changed and more specialised tasks, has also not been adequately taken into account. Nor have the necessary tools been outlined to meet this need. Although there is a lot of sense in the message, I would like to point out that it has areas where work needs to be done much better if we are to meet the challenges we face in the health and social sector in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1524	The proposal, which is perhaps the worst justified, which has been the subject of the debate – and which was perhaps the most perceptive one in the hearing – is the proposal to convert the medical study. Reference to non-response — which is an affordable concern — and to the fact that students who may not be able to complete will remain uneducated are the reasons the government chooses to highlight in the notification and the reason for converting the entire medical study. This Christian People's Party seems to be too thin a foundation. We do not support such a conversion. A bachelor's degree in medicine can be difficult to qualify for the profession. We can't walk around mini doctors without full competence. I find it strange that the government parties want to make a conversion on such a thin basis, without having been in dialogue with neither the Medical Association nor other actors in the field. If the intention is to secure those who might fall out of the study, the Christian People's Party believes that a much better solution might be to provide a so-called Y-way downwards, for example. in real science, so that they can complete an education in another field. There is no need to convert the entire medical study in this respect. I am pleased with the words about the new universities in the debate – both from the Council of State and from others in the government parties. I'd probably like the government parties to be part of the little note in the vote, but we'll ask people to read the debate and say that it's an important role the universities have. Their comparative advantage, namely good opportunities for practical research and research-based further development of practice, will be important in the future. One I met during this process, said that the interaction reform is totally dependent on our success in this message. If we do not succeed in building up competences at municipal level, we will not be able to carry out the ambitious reform that Stortinget wants. That is why it is important that we succeed. Several have addressed the theme of ‘welfare technology’. I find it exciting to think about the competence of engineers and smart heads in solving challenges in the care sector. What is important for the Christian People's Party is to release to more human contact – not to release from human contact. Then we have gone the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1539	We agree that we are facing major challenges in getting enough hands with good skills in the coming years. The message we are dealing with today is put together – together with the Cooperation Reform, which includes, among other things: The level of competence contributes to increased competence — the search for the kind of needs we have, and points to solutions that can be good. As a nurse, I am pleased that ethics as part of the education is mentioned so often and so much in the message. That's what's needed. One of the major challenges we see is getting enough staff. Although we increase capacity and build more places of study, the recruitment of many health professionals is difficult. Several trade unions have, among other things: lack of men, perhaps most of them nurses and health professionals. Also, many are not in the profession throughout their professional life, but choose other professions after a time. So it tastes like a lot of places. We in Norway have been at the forefront in the ethical recruitment of health professionals, and we should be proud of that. The global need is great, and the greatest is probably the lack in sub-Saharan Africa. The fact that we don't have an active recruitment policy from there is very good. We should therefore find solutions based on voluntary labour immigration and national opportunities for flexible education. I believe this message adds up to that. Good practice time is necessary and important to get good professionals. Good practice guidance is therefore necessary. I am proud that the University of Vestfold, together with the municipality of Larvik and with the support of means of interaction, has started a study called ‘Sickness for the Future’. It is precisely taught with practical guidance. Feedback from students shows that the period of practice can be poor and with some random follow-up. Increased awareness of how to implement practices could prevent study failures. It will also provide stability and security for students in a professional and working life. The message also refers to that representative before I was in the room, that with welfare technology, and I think it is important that we put it into practice. We need increased knowledge about how to use it as best we can, as well as the warm hands. We must use well-being technology, in addition to personnel, because it can produce good results – if it is used correctly. That we should then also use welfare technology as a subject of technical expertise, I think it is exciting and an important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1556	The major welfare reforms make new demands on the education system. Therefore, it is profitable in itself for the government to address the skills needs of welfare institutions, with an ambition to bring this about in the education system. To this extent, the higher education system — and to a lesser extent the higher education system — has shown relatively little capacity for innovation across professional professions. Historically, health and social professional training has been provided in response to concrete needs. This will probably also be the case in the course, with the difference now that we are moving from narrow professional training to broader education courses that are more suited to the educational needs of welfare settings. In my view, it is not appropriate, in the light of the needs, to further focus on several narrow basic training courses targeting defined areas of welfare seats, because such training offers little flexibility, both for the employee and for the employer, and is, in fact, of little qualification for the work carried out in the agencies. The Nav reform and the Cooperation Reform – and I believe that the development of the healthcare system points in the same direction – are multidisciplinary construction works. Today’s Nav staff need, for example, labour market skills, social security skills and social security skills. Everyone does not have to be able to do everything about it, but the requirement of multidisciplinary competence is a fundamental prerequisite for the proper functioning of the establishment. If the education system is unable to contribute to this, the establishment must acquire that competence itself. So depending on the agencies to develop their own skills, and so resource-intensive is this task, that in that period Nav has now gone through, it's probably out of service. I hope that the university system now sees the challenge that, among other things, Nav represents. Nav today has 18 000 employees, including the 4,000 who are in municipal service, and I feel quite sure that the agency as part of its recruitment policy will contribute to the apprenticeships both adapting existing offers and developing new training courses according to the needs of Nav and other welfare institutions. But colleges and universities also have a different role in terms of welfare. We want the exercise to be research-based. It is therefore important to strengthen relations between education, practice and R & D, including in short vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1567	I just have a few brief comments. As far as medical education is concerned, I have to say that I am a little concerned when we have a briefing with relatively clear indications of changing this education, which is then first justified in the issue of non-response, but which – as the Council of State answers in its reply here – is simply the result of one university wanting to try. It's commendable that a university wants to try, but from there to put it in a directionual message that you should be working on, without having discussed it with the academic community and the other academic environment, seems awfully easy. I am quite concerned that such things enter into such a message on such a thin basis. But we take the Council of State to the word when she says there's going to be a thorough process here, everyone is going to be involved, and it's not going to do anything until you've been through those rounds. Then we hope that this will have such an outcome, and that it may come back as a new matter. Finally, I would just like to point out the concerns we have about child protection. The feedback there are many; the feedback is many that there is a first line service being tapped and that there are large gaps in many municipalities. These are shortcomings that tend to emerge later in life, through an increased need for welfare services. We need to ensure good child protection throughout the country, and here the government must be concrete and – I would say – set up the pace and use all available resources. In the attitude, opposition parties refer to a previous attitude to increase the competence of child protection, where an evaluation of basic social education and research in the various professional environments was proposed, which was not supported by the majority of the Stortinge. An error has occurred in the reference to that setting. On page 13 of the setting, it says that a reference to option 232 S. It's going to be 323 S. It's important that the references are correct, so I hope it can be noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1578	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1581	I get to start with the last talk ended with, child protection. Many have been involved in the debate on the training of child protection professionals and child protection educators, and how important that field is. That may not have been said too often. We have had many debates in this Chamber on child protection and the organisation of child protection. What is so important to carry with them is that the persons who are to play the role and do this task of child protection and who are to see these children and provide them with a security that their parents do not manage are well educated. The opposition is also very impatient and is waiting for a announcement from the government. With regard to this matter that we are dealing with today, at least the Progress Party is very pleased that there is an overall committee that puts this on the map and sees that we need a strong and relevant education, which is very important to help these children. So to the practicality of these young people, who get an education where they may not get a knowledge of child protection. When they suddenly start working with these vulnerable kids, they see how important it is that they have practice, and not least that they get a mentoring system. I think that's incredibly important to these people. The Progress Party is also somewhat disappointed that the government does not take on board the fact that there are actually several independent reports now that show that very much of the expertise in child protection has disappeared from the municipalities and the first line service and to some professional teams, who do not see the kids, and they do not get the job they are going to do. It's important that we come with us. There is also a development of child protection services in many small municipalities, and I point out that there are several municipalities that are now joining forces in inter-municipal cooperation. It is very important that they lie in front of us on Stortinget and see that there is a need to do so. The most important thing here is to ensure these kids a good deal. Then we must have competent people who have experience – and practice – that can secure these children. I want to refer to the comments of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in this particular field. Then I would also like to refer to an interview that is now coming on Friday about how important it is that kindergarten workers also see children who are being subjected to violence and abuse. It is important to get this into pre-school teacher training, so that they are observant and able to ensure these children a safe and well-growth where parents fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1600	It is the cause-speaker's privilege to sum up the debate and get the first, and almost, the last word in the debate – it's nice. In my opinion, the case is now well-lit based on at least three different committees that have relevant input into this extensive work. In this way, the representative, Trine Skei Grande, is quite right when she says that the message is important because it hits a lot of users. I am glad that many people have shared in the debate. Many people have underlined the most important elements of the message itself, and I mention it in a crossword form: the implementation of the health sciences in secondary schools, the provision and admission criteria in the colleges, the conversion of higher education, the practical aspects, the important role of research, the important role of professional ethics, welfare technology and social skills. Of course, the meaning of the story comes from specific decisions in addition to the message, but also the debate itself and the premises that are emphasised are important. It may be particularly important in further development. In the debate, there have been various issues that I, as the case-speaker, find it natural to comment. I would like to show what the representative, Eriksen, mentions professional ethics, the importance of having knowledge, competence, the ethical reflection of health professionals in dealing with the patient – I stress the importance of ethics in education and, in particular, the degree of practice in education. Getting professional ethics into practice is the big challenge in this perspective. Otherwise, I notice that the representative Bente Thorsen believed that welfare technology is not being introduced with this decision. I want to show that there is a consensual committee, including the Progress Party, which refers to the Hagen selection's position, which is very clear on the role that welfare technology should play in the future. The representatives of Thorsen and Gåsvatn also believed that the message was taken and that the government was in favour of ‘decision refusal’. It's up to the opposition, and it's their privilege to mean it, but again – the message is based on extensive research and development work. As case spokesman, I find it unwarrantable to be able to advance this result. It is up to the research, the development, in cooperation with the parties to the debt, which are many, to design the new concrete points in this area. Thank you very much for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1617	The training of our welfare workers is helping to form the basis for what kind of society we're going to have in the future. A goal of how well we succeed in creating a more liberal and inclusive society is how those who often feel outside and unwanted can believe that another future is possible. What is common to welfare workers is that they often meet people in the most vulnerable life situations and crises. This message helps to form the basis for investing in our social infrastructure, such as child protection, drug care and psychiatry. The vulnerable children will be the vulnerable adults if we don't succeed in breaking the social heritage. We need well-being workers with a wide range of skills, who can solve people with complex problems in a society with a regulatory framework that can be difficult to access – a loft that can point to opportunities and solutions in a wide range of services. People who have severe diagnoses, who are drug addicts or who are looking to give a hopeless life situation without hope for tomorrow may be difficult to meet. It is often decided in this meeting whether we can get to an interaction that shows a way forward. Meeting people where they are is fundamental to creating a change. There are people living in parallel societies, also in our country. Meeting people with positive expectations regardless of the history and the baggage that people have with us can give a new start. I will strongly warn against an exaggerated belief that we can make changes in human life without those who are going to live the same life knowing that the way to walk is possible. A good welfare worker has knowledge, understanding and tools to meet users and patients where they are in life. It's this that's good social work. We need a broad recruitment for the welfare workers. Not just because we need many in the years to come, but we need a breadth of recruitment that reflects the diverse society we've become. If we are to succeed in combating poverty and providing people with tools to master the life they have been given, we also need people with experience skills. I'm questioning the extensive use of police statements, which I think can help to dispel many who may have good prospects for reaching those who live on the shadows of society. Our well-being workers have an amazingly important job. The value of giving people quality of life is, despite what some on the right-hand side believe, that it can be measured, counted and counted. But anyway, we're going to appreciate them. It's about a salary you can live off, secure entire permanent jobs and give these professions a status that reflects the social glue they make. Diverging welfare workers create communities every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1634	Just a few brief comments at the end of the debate. Discussion of future medical studies has been a topic that has been addressed by several representatives. I would then like to refer to what is in the big news, because the initiative for that debate has come from the institutions themselves and in the light of what is an international development, namely the possibility of offering 3+3. The message is that the government wants to open up that the medical study can be organised in a three-year Bachelor's degree followed by a three-year Master's degree, provided that the Bachelor's degree functions as an independent professional qualification. Then, of course, we're in dialogue with the institutions. They are now, regardless of where they have to discuss the way in which the medical study as such is going to develop further in the future. Then, of course, if the institutions come to the conclusion that it is the most appropriate way to organise it – in discussion with the various professionals as well – it is an opening to think a little differently about this. But I think this is quite possible and desirable to engage in close dialogue with those who are interested in it, for example. professional training itself. Otherwise, I find it inspiring that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the direction of education in the welfare field, as mentioned in the communication. It is a very clear direction in terms of seeing the different training courses in the context and making more flexible transitions between levels of education – that we need to expand what is knowledge in this area, that what is practice and professional competence in higher education must be appreciated, that research-based knowledge should be used and exercised in the performance of services, that we should try to make the different educations work together and make sure that we have both learning venues, that is. both working life and the education system, with each of its advantages in a cooperation that makes us wiser in sum. In this context, it is also important that the responsibility of the labour market to contribute to education is clear. If necessary, we have also said that we consider to legislate – that we should have good practice places and good guidance for graduates, so that we are sure that we get this interaction between educational institutions and the labour market. I am pleased that there is such broad agreement on these main pillars of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1653	Just a very brief comment on this with medical training. This committee, which has presented and largely debated the vote today, has had the great pleasure of working with Tora Aasland a number of times. It has also been experienced by universities in Norway. It is clear that then we will come to this with dialogue. Dialogue is a word composed of the Latin words 'log' that means conversation, and 'dia' that means two. Dialogue therefore involves two parties. I'm not sure that the universities always experienced it when they were in dialogue with Tora Aasland. It was probably a lot of times an entry that there was more of a monologue, that is, a singular. Now, when the Council of State has repeatedly promised us that we should have dialogue with the universities on the development of medical training, I hope that there will actually be two parties who have that dialogue, that there will not be a clear message coming from the Ministry of Knowledge about the changes that many from here want to be implemented, but that there will be a real conversation between two parties. To the extent that you're going to have contributions from the Storting, we're willing to share in discussing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1660	I think this has been a very good debate dealing with a comprehensive and very important matter. Several have faced the major challenges of recruiting personnel in the future, and we already have that challenge today. There has also been a little more emancipation in relation to the need for new content in medical training, not a deterioration that a breakdown of education can actually lead to. I am very pleased that, on questions from Eriksen, State Council Halvorsen was very clear that the new universities had their own place in the further development of professional training. It was also very positive. When the case rapporteur in his closing post here says that the government is tired of decision-making refusal, I will show that there are enormously many good solutions in this communication. Unfortunately, there are no concrete proposals for their adoption. It is still to be investigated and investigated. All the patients, the users of what we've been talking about now, experience the same in the uncertain for a long time to come, instead of being offensive, both magnificence and government, and saying that there are so good solutions in place that we can already go in for it today. It may not have cost so much in dollars. If we read what came from the hearing response, etc., they were all, most of them very positive to the conversion of what goes on in the content of education, to cooperation and at all. So here I think it is right to say that the government and the majority of the population suffer from a refusal to decide – unfortunately – on behalf of the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1667	First of all, my impression of the former state council is that the dialogue skills of Tora Aasland are different from those of Tord Lien. My impression is on the contrary that there was very good dialogue with a lot of institutions and research environments when she was the Council of State. Dialogue doesn't always mean you're 100 pst. agree on everything, but it is important to hear each other's points of view and to be in good processes. I have absolutely every intention of trying to continue that tone to the sector. That's the one. The second is to the representative of Thorsen: it is very inconceivable that a government implements a policy that has not been adopted by the Stortinge. It is today that the Storting joins this big message. So, after normal, good cooperation between bulking and government, a message is made, connects to the main grips, works in so far as parallel, but gets such a clear signal to go in that direction. That's what we've got. So let's just start the tracking line. But if I had done it the other way around, I think maybe the Storting had protested a little – probably quite a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1674	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1688	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1697	Today, we are tightening up the requirements of the teachers. I feel that this is something that is well received by the school people. The aim must be for all teachers to have appropriate training in all subjects in which they teach. The current right today is that recruitment requirements will be made for teachers in a number of subjects. The change in the reality of the proposal we are discussing today is linked to the fact that the requirements of education in these subjects can also be met. It involves a tightening up of the current situation. In this context, it is necessary to clarify what constitutes the relevant competence. Following the proposal, it is the responsibility of the school owner to assess which study credits constitute the relevant competence. It gives the school owner the freedom to make specific assessments in each situation, while making clear demands. That being said, the Committee also agrees to recognise teachers who have solid professional experience but who are unskilled. Therefore, the legal framework is not limited to formal competence, so that it is opened up to later assess whether other types of competence should be included as alternatives. It is particularly relevant for teachers with solid professional experience or practices in different subjects, who are not formalised in the form of study credits. In the view of the Labour Party, it will be a natural continuation of the idea of a more seamless education system — the fact that knowledge is not defined narrowly and confined to diplomas, but wide and also related to skills acquired through professionally challenging work over time. In the hearing, a view from among others was promoted. The music community and music in the school where several in the committee noticed. Organisations also want competence requirements in practical-esthetic training. It is on several occasions documented coherence between mathematics and music, and how the practical-esthetic subjects can support and support learning outcomes in several subjects. The entire Committee acknowledges the relevance of this play, and government parties are open to return to it in an appropriate manner at a later stage. There are some differences in the way this case is dealt with. Mostly, disagreements are about whether you go far enough. I leave to the other parties to explain their views on this. In the case of the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, it is right to proceed step by step, with clear requirements, but also with enough elbow space to ensure implementation. Therefore, there are some necessary exceptions to the teaching competence requirement. Therefore, the proposal is not given retroactive effect either. The latter is also a general principle for proposed new laws. We have high ambitions for the school. We want teachers to have the best tools for the important job they do. We will meet the teachers with expectations and demands, but we will also meet them with confidence. I therefore read with some wonder that the Right Party and the Advance Party would like to conduct a competence monitoring and publication of the formal level of education of teachers. They do not appreciate the competence that many teachers have gained through many years of experience, nor do they express distrust of the school principal and the school owner's assessment of the recruitment of teachers. The issue we are dealing with today also makes it clear that the school offer to newly arrived immigrants can be organised in specific deployment services. This is an exception to the general organisation of the common school and should only be used where it will promote individual learning, so that he or she becomes more ready for normal schooling. In the position, the Progress Party refers to language teaching. This is not part of the proposition being treated. The commentary given by the Progress Party also shows that they have probably misunderstood how this is being practised today – teaching in native language is being given today only to students as a learning supporter to learn Norwegian. Finally, I would like to point out that the case that we are dealing with today also provides an explicit clarification in the training law that students who need the ASK have the right to use appropriate forms of communication and the necessary means of communication in the training, and that these students also have the right to the necessary training in using the ASK. This is a necessary clarification to safeguard the rights of these students. In the case, small and protective craftsmanship and the importance of their preservation are also addressed. I would also like to refer to the vote and thank the Committee for its good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1725	Often when I'm going to mutter about the right old days – the councillor took me by the time I mumbled about the relatively fresh old days – I use to mutter about the former councillor, Øystein Djupedal. I've been so lucky to run a campaign against him sometimes. Reform education and the excellence of the general teacher were very strong on that edge, not only in that part of SV, but throughout SV and in large parts of the left side of Norwegian policy for many, many years. Despite the fact that there are some nuances and some disagreements about both the level of ambition, the pace, etc. – the red-greens go in for approx. Forty years, which is the reality if you don't include those who are already employed, but just as fully, it's a completely new principle, as you declare today, and as the Stortinge will decide, that the pilot project with general teachers in Norwegian school is over. Therefore, this is primarily a day of joy, and I want to put the most emphasis on it. Now we demand that what we know internationally works very well, that teachers should be able to do what they teach. It sounds paradoxical, but that's what we're doing now in Norway in 2012. We say that the teachers should be able to do what they teach, and the general teacher and the idea and the theory of reform education have had enough nail in the coffin. I'm glad. I think it's sad that you don't have a higher level of ambition, especially with the teachers who are already employed today. I have attended numerous meetings and hearings with the Education Association, which says that they want the right and duty of continuing training for their members. Nevertheless, the government believes that we cannot do this, despite the fact that the greatest player among the trade unions for teachers believes that the right and obligation to continue training is both desirable and possible. Then there is a party that has chosen not to participate in this debate. It's the Center Party, which uses to say that the wit is equally distributed throughout the country. I fully agree with that. Therefore, I believe that if you go to a small school in a coastal municipality in Trøndelag, for example, you should be entitled to receive as good education as students, for example. goes to Trondheim. At least it should be a goal to get it in place. Something has also come up on the Trøndelags coast, which is called the Internet. If you don't get the professional teachers to move out to the coast, you can solve a lot through distance learning. That's other happy news too. The skylights to private schools are now partially lifted. At least there is a step in the right direction, and there are private offers that can now be established for small and protective crafts. I recall that this should not mean that we should not continue Nordic cooperation in order to strengthen the small crafts which this committee has on some occasions been involved in discussing. So to this with native language. We do not propose to prohibit any municipalities that want to do so, to teach in native language. We also do not propose to make any changes in bilingual training, which I understood the rapporteur indicated. We propose to remove the statutory right to language teaching, so that municipalities are more free. There's not much research on it, and there's very little ground outside the Nordics to research on it, but the research that's done shows above all that professionally strong immigrant students benefit from it. But the professionally strong immigrants speak better Norwegian and do it better in school than the large majority. It's not the ones we need to make a better school for. It is primarily for those who are struggling, regardless of their origin. With that, I address the proposals in the vote to which the Progress Party is either on its own or as a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1742	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1745	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for a good review of the matter. High school quality requires a high level of teacher competence. The majority is currently dealing with the most important case for Norwegian school since the decision on the Knowledgelift. The issue is basically important because the Stortinget is taking a new step to ensure an equivalent high-quality school offer throughout the country. It is likely to be debated whether it is right that the Storting should decide on the competence requirements for teachers. But for the school party Right-wing research results on the relationship between teacher competence on the one hand and learning outcomes on the other, are very heavy. The right-wing opinion is therefore that the Stortinget would neglect Norwegian students and parents if we are not concerned about the teacher's competence in the teaching subjects, and if we do not set skills requirements to help make the school even better. A good school is crucial for our future competitiveness, and to provide enough skilled labour in the future. Schools must have high ambitions on behalf of students, and society must have high ambitions to provide the school with highly skilled teachers. The consideration of the smallest schools should not prevent us from setting high targets for Norwegian school in general. However, the Right acknowledges that it will be a challenge to provide qualified teachers in small schools, and therefore believes that the government should have an extra eye on this by introducing the skills requirements. An equivalent school offer requires that we consider new tools that can stimulate the development of skills in small schools, so that students can also meet well-qualified teachers here. The government takes important steps to raise the teacher's skills, but does not go far enough. The most important lesson we can learn from good Finland is the thoroughness of their teacher training. For this reason, the Right believes that Norwegian teacher training must be pursued at the master level, and that the government needs to put in place a plan to achieve this. On behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, I am promoting a proposal that clarifies the competence requirements for teachers at different levels in the school of the three parties. Then we have to realize that demands that go beyond the government's, cannot be introduced overnight, but the proposal points out the goal to be achieved through a strengthening of teacher training. To hie in high teacher competence is to talk the teachers up, not to talk the school down. The right considers high skills requirements to be state-building for the teaching profession, which can make a positive contribution to attracting more young people to choose the school and the teaching profession as a career path. At one point in the message, there is a fundamental disagreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, Right and Left, which assumes that new skills requirements must also include current teachers. If we think it's right to make greater demands on newly educated teachers, it must be just as right to make the same demands on teachers who are in school today, who may have to be there for decades. It is a fact that many teachers today teach in the subject and in the stage without having the necessary professional competence. The arrangements for previous teacher training must be blamed. The right is therefore challenging the government to take the extra power it is to lift all the teachers up to a higher level – I refer to the proposal on that. Special education is a child of pain because it is increasing in scope and because much of this teaching is directed by assistants and teachers without the necessary qualifications. The right agrees that there is a need for flexibility in recruitment requirements related to special education, but will strongly stress the need for qualified teachers to meet students with the greatest need for assistance. One of the school's main challenges is to revolutionise the use of resources in special education in a more preventive way. Early efforts must mean that the special competence of the PP service can be deployed prior to investigation and individual decision-making, and that teachers can instead receive guidance on how to provide good training for more students in the class. According to the researchers, this will be positive for all the students. Some students require organized training far beyond the usual. The ASK students are such a group, and the Right is very pleased that the initiative we took in the previous enlargement period is now being followed up and that the legislative changes to ensure that the ASK students are granted their rights were finally put in place. The ASK students are a vulnerable group that needs our attention. It has received it, but from the Right, we will encourage the Minister of Knowledge to follow further up and contribute to the ministry’s evaluation of the functioning of the law within three years. I want to stop where I started, by stressing the importance of the teacher. High school quality requires a high level of teacher competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1775	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1778	There are several proposals that are not entirely thematic in nature, which we are going to adopt in today's vote. One is about legislating the possibility of being employed in a teaching position on condition that initial education is completed. The second is to legislate on the possibility of organising deployment offers for newly arrived minority language students. It is also a matter of – like the representative Aspaker, this is a welcome clarification also from the Christian People's Party – to introduce their own provision on training if necessary for alternative and complementary communication. This is very important for the group that needs it. In addition, it will be possible to approve private schools offering training in small crafts of protection. All of this is very much in agreement, and we also agree with the Storting that it is necessary for the teacher to have the relevant competence in the field of education, and not only in the context of employment. There we have various suggestions on how to implement these requirements. The Christian People's Party supports all the proposals, but with regard to the requirement that the teacher should have the relevant competence in the field of education, we are concerned that this should only include Norwegian, Sami, childhood mathematics and Norwegian or Sami, mathematics, English and other youth subjects. We are afraid that this can help create a- and b-students in school, if the requirements are not to apply to all subjects. It is that students learn in different ways, and that too many people can be involved in practical-esthetic subjects in developing the theoretical subjects and performances in them. Therefore, we believe that skills requirements should also be introduced for practical and aesthetic subjects at both childhood and youth levels. There is a lack of recognition that students learn differently if you do not have qualifications in all these subjects. We heard from the hearing that it was almost better not to have music than to have a music teacher who could not play an instrument, for example. guitar. It would work against its purpose. We know that with the high cultural effort that our country has, we need competent professionals in culture as well. Therefore, it is not only a matter of giving airing, or alternative and practical subjects for students, but it is a matter of taking seriously that, in practical-esthetic subjects too, many people complete a vocational training course and have their professional careers within it, and need skills already from childhood. Therefore, I take up the proposal that the Christian People's Party has that we want more requirements for competence beyond what the government has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1793	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1796	Then I understand that all the suggestions I'm on are taken up in some form. Many of the arguments have been put forward, but it is right, as the representative Lien says, that today we are actually putting an end to the general teacher's thinking in Norwegian school. I think it's an important step and a right step, because building teaching skills is one of the most important things we can do to improve learning in Norwegian school – and that's why we run Norwegian school. I want to record three items. The first is that if we're going to take action, it's important to have a plan for how to build such skills. That is why the Left is included in proposal No. 1 today, which says that we need a plan for building up skills. It is related to the second moment: we must not get into the situation of parents discussing whether the children are getting a new teacher or an old teacher – whether they are getting a teacher trained in a new system or in an old system. It is important that all teachers have the same competence, that it needs to be built up over time, and that all teachers should be given – including those who have not been through a new teacher training. It takes time to build it up – I understand – but there has to be a plan for how to get there, because it is important that we get rid of all the debates about whether you were lucky with the teacher. You can easily have debates about whether you like the teacher – as a teacher, I know it's very demanding to have 30 children in front of you, all of which are just as important to you. I don't think that's a good idea. But it is important that we have at least a professional competence that is safe and good with the individual teacher. Then I want to take up one thing that is in the process of worrying me after my travels around School-Norway, as I mentioned in the matter, but which I just want to send with the council as a concern: our systems related to reception classes. The warning, especially from Oslo, where some schools face the challenge of having reception classes, which is a challenging school class to run, is to send people too quickly into normal Norwegian school. One should have clarified skills requirements, better control of Norwegians before sending students to a school level that they are not necessarily able to master. This needs to be further worked on, I think, before you can make the reception system work well in Norwegian school. It's a big challenge to have those classes, but it's also a big challenge to get those students in a normal class afterwards. We have a system in Norwegian school that allows you to enter the class level you're going to take from your age and not from your knowledge. I agree. But that means that we have to have a rather demanding device behind us for it to work well. I've talked to fathers who believe that sending the child abroad for a couple of years does nothing, because when they come back, they haven't lost anything, because they're in the same class that they were supposed to be in. But that doesn't mean that the child hasn't lost anything after a few years abroad at another school. We have to make sure that these systems get better, because we're going to have a lot of mobility in the student population in the future. I think it should have some follow-up to lose some school years. At least you shouldn't believe, and pretend that students won't lose anything when they lose a school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1809	This proposal proposes to require appropriate competence in the field of education. It comes as an addition to today's requirements of competence, which is linked to the addition itself, and means that a teacher must have professional competence in order to be able to teach in individual subjects. Now I think maybe a couple of the speakers have produced this as if it's brand new. This is a natural consequence of the conversion of teacher training that Stortinget has previously joined. The whole reform of primary school teacher training is just about ensuring that you have a good level of education with emphasis from 1 to 7. steps but also from 5 to 10. Steps, with greater emphasis on formal competence in the profession. We follow that up through this communication, by making sure to introduce 30 credits to teach in Norwegian, Sami and mathematics at the nursery, 60 credits to teach in Norwegian, Sami, mathematics and English at the youth level, 30 credits to teach in most other subjects and 60 credits to teach in most upper secondary subjects. What is a challenge in this matter is to find: what is the right pace for the implementation of different requirements and at what time? Everyone will understand that when you have a fresh primary school teacher education, and approx. 40 pst. Of those who teach at school today, we need to find the right way to do this. Then it's the combination of newly-trained teachers from the new teacher training and teachers with further education that we have to be able to get in place, but I don't think it's appropriate to say that this should apply to all teachers. It's not practicable in any way. It is as the representative Tajik was also in his post, a subordination that many teachers with a long speed in Norwegian school have a real competence in the subjects in which they teach, which is also very valuable. I notice what Trine Skei Grande says about reception classes. It is clear that it is quite demanding to find out how to apply the right measures to students who come to Norway, perhaps without schooling at all, who are socially at home in an environment with children of their own age, but with whom there is no knowledge of how to hang out. What we're doing now is making sure we have a flexible offer, because we've now put a time limit on this offer for a maximum of two years, but we can make decisions for one year at a time. We believe that this is a reasonable balance. I see that this discussion has not necessarily ended with this, but it has been unsafe around in Kommune-Norway if you had the opportunity to design the offers with your own reception classes – as we now find it possible – and that insecurity is cleared out of the way. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the importance of regulating the offer to those who need alternative and complementary communication, the ASK. This applies to students who are completely or partly speechless and therefore need to be able to express themselves through alternative and supplementary forms of expression. A separate provision is proposed which refers to the use of appropriate forms of communication and means of communication in training for this group. There are many who have been concerned about getting a clean-up around this, and I appreciate the fact that the cross-political committee joins and supports such clarification. Finally, I would like to stress the change we are making in the Private School Act, which ensures small and protective subjects. We have some subjects that are never going to have – what to say – large hordes of students who are applying for them, but which are very important from a cultural memory perspective and in order to maintain craft traditions. I believe that we have now found a flexible solution to get to just this. This is a proposition that bears a little touch of dealership. These are a little bit different themes, but everything is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1828	Let me again express my great joy that we have this debate today. But then it's the opposition's prerogative to be impatient. We also know, I think, that reforms take time to implement, and it takes time for them to take effect. That's the way it is, and it's the lot of life for us knowledge politicians that we're not necessarily going to see the big results of the job we do over the four-year period or the eight-year period we're doing it. But there's now a little distance between being a slightly impatient opposition in the first place and the fact that one kind of assumes that we're really not going to see the final effects of this reform until 40-50 years have passed, because you don't want to make demands on the teachers who are in school today. When the Association of Education, which organises most teachers in Norway, is very clear that they want the right and obligation to continue training for their members, I wonder: Is not the learning of the students who already employ teachers as important as the students who receive new teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1837	I wonder if the representative Tord Lien and I have understood the Education Association a little differently. I have understood them there that this is a sensible introduction for those who are newly educated, and who are added to Norwegian school today, but it is not feasible for those who are already in school. But it doesn't matter. If I thought it made sense, and the Education Association disagreed, I would have done it anyway, because – what to say – organisations are important fellow players, with important inspiration, but they don't dictate government policy. I believe that what is important to do, and which I think we have managed to achieve in this proposition, is the balance between impatience after getting teachers who have good professional knowledge in the field, which we now stress especially in the field of youth, and a realistic plan for how to ensure that the teachers who are in Norwegian school actually have the formal competence that we are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1844	Building quality in school is, as many people have been involved in, a very long-term project. But I'm very surprised that the government is now coming to the Stortinget with a proposal on skills requirements that really means creating a sharp distinction between newly educated teachers and today's teachers. We have evidence that we have a large number of teachers in Norwegian school who lack competence in the subjects and the steps they teach. At the same time, we have research that shows that there is a strong link between the quality or competence of the teacher and the learning outcomes of the students. It is difficult to imagine introducing new requirements in the health sector that should not cover the entire health workforce. What makes it entirely unproblematic to introduce new skills requirements for teachers in school, how much of the teaching staff in the decades to come will not be covered by the new requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1851	That's about. 40 pst. by teachers in Norwegian schools who do not have this kind of formal competence in subjects in which they teach, in which we are now introducing new ones. It is completely wrong to say in general that there are poorly qualified teachers. A lot of these are good teachers, although they don't necessarily have the formal study credits that we're now demanding. However, this does not prevent us from having a strong desire for more people to participate in our continuing training strategy and to ensure that we also receive professional replenishment. What is the challenge here is that we need to create a system of formal competence requirements that can be implemented. At 40 pst. Norwegian teachers had to take leave from their job in Norwegian school so that we would formally ensure that they were replenished and that they had their study credits in place is quite unimaginable – it is quite unthinkable that we should be able to get to a capacity in the field of further education that could receive such a kind of demand. That's why we have to go forward this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1858	It is entirely possible to agree with the Council of State that one has to move forward step by step. But you still have to decide where to put the list. It is very strange that this crossroads does not make it possible to take a fundamental view that this reform – I call it reform, so important is what we are going to do today – will include all the teachers of the country. Teachers themselves want the right and duty of continuing education – it has been linked to the Education Association in its educational documents. Then it's strange that the government can't be involved in it, and put in a long-term plan to qualify all teachers into that system. I recognize that many teachers also have real skills that it may be important to formalize. I don't condone it. But I think it's defensive, and that you have little ambitions on behalf of the students when you can't make demands for all the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1867	Now the representative Aspaker also says that the Swedish Education Association supports their proposal to introduce formal qualifications for education in Norwegian school. I'm a little curious about that, but it's not crucial for me. I believe that the government parties have found the right balance in relation to how we should implement these skills requirements, while I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement between the KS and the teacher organisations on continuing training. We have added a few extra kroner to ensure that all those who now also have the municipality's approval to take such further training can get it, and it is my hope that it will increase considerably in the years to come. Then we will be able to put in place an approach both for those who are now newly recruited in terms of the educational requirement and the other way. There must be a reasonable procedure in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1874	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1879	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough presentation of the case, which has been described by many as something very important and important in school terms, and I fully agree with that. In this case, hopefully the total aggregate confirms that the teacher is the most important resource for the learner's learning. Some efforts are also being made to extend today’s skills requirements to future teachers. The Committee agrees that the objective is for all teachers to have appropriate training in all subjects in which they teach. The majority indicates that the requirement shall not have retroactive effect. This is not the end of the Progress Party. The Progress Party does not wish to grant permanent exemptions from the new skills requirements for current teachers. I think that the government parties show a debatable attitude when they do not aim for all teachers who are in today's school to have the same competence as it is now adopted. As mentioned in the debate, the Party of Progress, the Right and the Left propose that the Government draw up a plan for the qualification of today's teachers within a specified period of time, so that they can acquire that competence. When approx. 9 000 Norwegian elementary school teachers lack teaching skills for the steps they teach, meaning quite a lot for the results of the students. The majority also adopts decisions on permanent derogations from the competence requirements for teachers in high school with a small number of pupils. The teacher is just as important to these students when they're going to acquire knowledge, as the teacher at a major school. The Party of Progress is also responsible for granting a derogation here, but for a limited period of time. We believe that provision should be made for the school owner to allow teachers to continue their education wherever they live in the country. This is fully possible by using on-line education to a much greater extent than today, which may be of importance to teachers in out-country schools. The large increase in the need for special education needs needs to be taken seriously, and therefore much more research should be done on the basis of this in order to find out what is behind it. One thing can at least be established, and it is that there is no good sign for the Norwegian school that so many students need special education. As far as teaching staff in special education are concerned, it is a cross-section of the mind that students who need special teachers are largely cared for by unskilled assistants. Here, it is important to point out that government, granting authorities ensure that the school owner and principal are financially able to contribute to the meeting of highly qualified teachers by special education students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1898	I would like to thank the Committee for a good and constructive discussion. In conclusion, I would like to take up a degree of discretion in the discussion, but that is an important aspect for me. That's why I want to clarify it. I understand that the representative Tord Lien and I still disagree on how the parent language training works at school – that is why I am addressing this issue. Many believe that today’s mother tongue training works as it did before. When I went to school early in the 1990s, I was trained in the native language to learn the native language. That means I had lessons in Urdu to learn Urdu. This changed in 1998, when Jon Lilletun was the Council of State. He presented a big message called Parental Education in Primary School, where he underlined: ‘The mother tongue shall be a tool for conceptual development, for knowledge establishment and a basis for learning Norwegian.’» [[...]] This changed the arrangements for the training of the mother tongue, so that it was about learning Norwegian. It is also explicitly stated in the parent language training syllabus: ‘It follows from the preamble to language training that the master’s syllabus for linguistic minorities is a transitional plan to be used only for students to follow the training according to the normal Norwegian curriculum.’ That is what it means that the parent language training should work in support of learning in Norwegian. The representative Lien also referred to research and pointed out that there is little research in this area. I'm afraid he's right about that. Especially with regard to the conditions in Scandinavia, we do not have much research into the functioning of maternal language training, and how to improve it, if necessary, so that it is even more effective in supporting learning in the language that students are supposed to learn to use in school, which is Norwegian in our context. There are a lot of research from other countries, and I would highly recommend the report that NOVA made in 2007. There they have reviewed the research available from a number of other countries. They point out that the conclusion of the major studies in this area varies from no effect — zero effect — to a positive effect, if the measure lasts for a longer period of time. However, what is common to all the studies is that it is not possible to demonstrate that parent language training is at the expense of the Norwegian language skills or school performance of minority students. So the conclusion shows that either the native language training doesn't work, or it works positive, but there's no reason to say that it works negatively. But I would like to see more research into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1923	In a situation of great debate on the use of resources in school, I and the Progress Party believe that this is a somewhat thin basis to legislate on, which at best has a positive effect, but which is very expensive, and which the municipalities perceive as challenging. We don't want to do anything about bilingual education, but I'm leaving that debate now. State Council Halvorsen said there was someone here who gave the impression that this was completely new. Yes, the decision we are making today is historic – it's completely new. We say that the general teacher should be phased out, and that's why today's decision is historic. This is the result of a process, primarily on the left-hand side. The fact that the Council of State won't accept itself and take self-criticism on what the left-hand side has previously thought, we're only going to have respect for. Mr Tajik also pointed out that the Advance Party and the Right would create a framework for publishing the professional level of teachers. When we know that the most important parameter for quality and benefit from school is the professional competence of teachers, we believe that it is not unreasonable for parents and students to have access to information on the competences of teachers. We agree that this is the most important quality parameter, but we disagree whether or not parents should know the level of this quality parameter. We just have to disagree about that. In the case of the Education Association, at least I have not claimed that they were in favour of the legal formulation that we want. What I have said is that the Education Association is clear that they want a right and an obligation to continue training. With such a right and obligation to continue training, it would be possible to achieve in the long term. Maybe not in five years, but at least in less than 40 years, which this would otherwise take time to get implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1937	I repeat that this is a historically important day for Norwegian school and hopefully a real turning point in raising the quality of Norwegian school new hacks. At the turn of the line, the Council of State said that the new training of teachers was the promotion of the setting of quality requirements or qualifications for teachers in the field of education. Yes, that's possible, but we could actually have done that independently of the new teacher training, because it's about setting some goals, deciding where to go, and then also learning needs to be developed and adapted to the ambitions we have for Norwegian school. A consequence of Storting's decision today must also be that we should focus more radically both on basic education and on a more sustainable system of continuing education. I do not know if it was a budgetary breach when the Council of State said that it would escalate the allocation for further education in the years to come, but at least the Right welcomes it very much. We believe that many more teachers need, want and need to receive continuing training. I would also like to stress that the Education Association has said – and they fully agree with the Right – that teachers must have the right and duty to continue their training. If we mean this by right and duty to continuing education, we must have a much more robust system, which creates a completely different predictability, so that those who train as teachers can know and have confidence that they can grow and further develop their profession while they are out in school. I think it has to do with the attractiveness of the teaching profession, that the good realist or language teacher knows that you can get to add new alumni to your own learning, even beyond your teaching life. I would like to dwell on the paradox that the health service would never even think that not everyone working in the healthcare system would follow the same quality requirements when introducing new skills requirements. But in school, you have to have a distinction between the teachers who are within the new skills requirements and those who are going to live by the old template. There is never so little breakthrough when the government now says yes to private schools in small and protective subjects. These are subjects that have worn heavily for a long time, and it is in 12 hours that you can now stack on your legs a training offer that can take care of a very important part of our cultural heritage, which is an interest in housing and further development, but which the public school has not been able to take care of for various reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1952	I am glad that the opposition also appreciates the government's pragmatism in relation to the private school law in order to secure the small, protective subjects. I think this is a good solution. That means that for some of the environments that have actually taken on a responsibility that we have not been able to discharge in public terms, we find a solution. Then I just want to say to the representative Thorsen that we don't need to talk about special education as if it was mostly carried out by assistants. That's wrong. Assistants do an important job in special education, but they have to be assistants to support a teaching situation. They're not supposed to take over education. It doesn't happen either, even if we have challenges in relation to it. Nor does it happen ‘generally’. It happens to a certain extent, but it is not that it is ‘large’. But we have a challenge in that area – of course. I think maybe we'll approach it a little bit better if we're a little bit more precise when we talk about it. So the teachers and the teachers' skills. Yes, that's right, we know that especially when you get a little bit up in the age ladders and a little bit up in the education system, there's a very close link between the teachers' skills in the subject and their pedagogical skills, and what's the student's learning outcomes. I don't think it's any shocking recognition, or that it beats the legs under everything you've thought about teachers in the past. But I think it's a very important recognition, which we put in place in connection with the new teacher training. Then I want to say that there is no black-and-white in this discussion. The way to ensure that teachers who are already in school are given the opportunity to fill their professional needs is to ensure a good continuing training strategy. Now the government parties and organizations have come up with a distribution where the state pays 50 pst., the municipalities 25 pst. and the teachers 25 pst. We agree, and KS recommends it. The opposition model is 60 pst. on the state, 20 p.m. on the teachers and 20 pst. in the municipalities. It is impossible to imagine that it would really lead to thousands of thousands of new, accepted courses of further education from the municipalities. But I have a hope that the municipalities will see that they have an employer's responsibility for the teachers' future competence, because they have asked for the employer's responsibility for the teachers. Now they have to show that they are ready to pay for being an employer. It is therefore a question of continuing training for their employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1968	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1971	At least I've seen research that shows that even for the youngest students, it plays a big role whether they meet a professional teacher or not. Yes, it may actually have so much to say that after three years, one student has learned 50 pst. more than the student who was so unfortunate to get a teacher who was not fully qualified. So I think the government council should be careful to claim that it's just up in the classes it plays a role whether the teacher has the skills in the subjects that you're actually teaching. This is also the basis for the right-wing opinion to have competence in all teaching subjects, whether in childhood or in childhood. Then I just want to say to the Council of State when she claims that this funding model is not the one that distinguishes how many teachers can get further education or not; is it right, because the Right has added another half a billion dollars in the pot. That's the big difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1980	Just a brief comment: it is right that professional skills also have a bearing on the younger students. But what's a challenge there is something else that is also important for the smallest students, namely stability in relation to the adults they have around them, and the contact teacher function. That's the background for saying 30 study points on the youngest, and then we step up. So here it's about doing to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. So for the further education strategy: Yes, when the model to the Right is 20 pst., not 25 pst. in the municipalities, as the arrangement of the government is, 20 pst., not 25 pst. to the teachers, as the government's arrangement is, 60 pst., not 50 pst. in the state, as the arrangement of the government is, there is no sea and heaven. Therefore, it is very likely that giving more money here – without at the same time lifting the responsibility of the municipalities for further education – would not mean anything from or to, because it was money that the municipalities would not use. So here we have a challenge that's bigger than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e1989	Several have not asked for the floor on case No.3.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2003	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2012	The government has submitted a case to Stortinget, where the goal is increased management and control of interactions. It's a long tradition that lies behind our co-ordination. It is the most experienced student politicians who gain trust in interaction. Yes, from my time as a student politician, it was when you got a board position in communication, that the Pampe status itself took place. We have carried out consultations on this matter. It wasn't that long of a hearing. It's usually not that you think a board composition is what becomes the kiosk cellar here on the Stortinget. But this is one thing that has really engaged many. First, I want to take the proposal to introduce the State-authorised auditor. It seems that all the parties on the Stortinget are wise, and we support that. Then I will explain what is the minority's comments, and I expect representatives of the government parties to present their proposal and the new proposal they have distributed in the Chamber today. The first is a proposal to legislate for profits. It considers that the minority has been respected in today's regulations. It's not like someone wants a deficit. But it would be strange to make it illegal to go with a deficit – if something unexpected happens. I guess, for example, The Council of State, which has been a party leader for a long time, has always tried to run the lot with profits, or at least to balance, but it would have been strange for everyone like that. experienced unforeseeable things, would be regarded as a criminal when it happened. So here's a lot of mechanisms, and it's taken care of in today's legislation that these are companies that are going to run with profits. So to the most important point, and that's about the majority of students. This has always been the case – this has been the student's initiative, this has been the students' business. There have been very consensus-oriented bodies. There are very few decisions in interactions that are not taken by consensus. It is in the very soul of student cooperation and progress that this is what you are trying to work out, and it is very rare that you are trotting through decisions on large investment on margins. It has been essentially important that the students should manage the students' own businesses, and that is what has created rebellion. What I find a little hard to understand is how to fight for such a change when absolutely no one wants it. It has been difficult as the case rapporteur to find someone who has spoken for such a change. The last thing that happened after we had held a hearing was that the LO also sent a letter saying clearly that they could not support such a change in law. For me, it's a bit of an unimaginable suggestion, that there should be so much mistrust associated with something that has worked so well every year, which has worked so highly in terms of leaders of society. We especially have an episode that it refers to in many contexts. In this context, all decisions were taken unanimously. It wouldn't have helped by any other majority. In that context, none of these amendments would lead to a different outcome of the decisions. We also need to look at other measures to address such situations in this amendment – which would not have helped when things went wrong either. For me, this is an incredible proposal. I don't understand what arguments speak for. I'd be glad if someone might be able to bring them out of the pulpit. A warning obligation has also been proposed. We do not see it as necessary either. But today there is a broad majority attached to having a state-authorised auditor in relations. That's where it stops.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2035	Thank you to the rapporteur who gave a good account of the measures we have agreed on. I'll take what we're not fully in agreement about. Student relations are institutions that are important to society. It is those who are responsible for the well-being of students, and through them it is possible, among other things. the great effort made by the red-greens in higher education. Through a series of years, communications have been able to adapt to the new needs of students and have been able to support higher education. Communications manage large amounts on behalf of current and future students. Among other things, SiO sells for approx. 1 billion. kr, and the interconnections have largely managed the great responsibility they have in a good way. It is, however, that society has had a need to raise the level of seriousness around some of the most important decisions. I believe that meeting board representatives in relationships with clear demands and expectations is not mistrustful, but it is taking the job they are doing seriously – just as we do with others who manage great values on behalf of the community. This is why the Ministry of Knowledge has had a broad review of legislation and has promoted a number of measures to ensure an equivalent and robust student welfare throughout the country. One of the proposals on which there has been a lot of debate is the requirement for a two-thirds majority in matters of great economic importance. We believe it is desirable to have a broad foundation in the Governing Board when important decisions with consequences for the long-term economy are to be taken. The whole purpose of such interaction shall be to ensure the best possible student welfare. Then it's a prerequisite that you have a robust economy. The goal of broad anchoring in the board of directors was that the student organisations and the Council of Cooperation also paid great attention to the importance of this, when the committee had a hearing. Then it is that activities with a commercial purpose do not lie in what we consider to be the core business of the relationships. They also represent a greater economic risk than other types of activity. That is why we think it makes sense for this type of decision to require a two-thirds majority of the board, and that is what we stand for. But we have also listened to the Council of Transport. We've seen the You Tube videos from engaged students in the NSO, and some of us have even followed the debates on Twitter. We've taken them seriously. That is why we are today promoting a proposal to take investment in student housing out of the list of decisions that require the accession of two thirds of the board. There will be more flexibility and room for action when interconnections are to be invested in student housing. Student housing is part of the core business of student relationships, and we have great faith that students will manage it in a good way. Then I want to clarify a relationship that concerns Section 6 seventh paragraph, about understanding what larger borrowings are. The proposition states that larger borrowings should be assessed on the basis of the amount of the loan in relation to the size of the student relationship and the financial situation. The borrowing must therefore be large in relation to the size and economic situation of the interconnection in order for the two-thirds rule to enter into force. It is worth noting that it is each board in student relationships that has to make the concrete assessment of whether the borrowing is to be considered as a larger borrowing or not. It is a discretionary judgement that is also used in other types of lending, such as: as regards the requirement of sound equity in the Share Act. When student housing is taken out with an assessment of what is greater borrowing, we believe that we provide a larger space for action, a greater degree of freedom of communication, in the case of student housing. With that amendment from the red-green parties, we believe that we have come up with a good solution. The main activity of interaction will still be guided by the students themselves, while ensuring that long-term and good student welfare is taken into account. With this I address the proposal from the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2058	The representative Stine Renate Håheim has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2061	Let me start by saying that I think the rapporteur Trine Skei Grande presented this – both the case and not least the opposition’s objections – in a very good way. So I'm going to try to be short. I'm always right, but it's rare I'm on this pulpit and I'm so sure to be right as today. This is a case where you have to look with light and light to find some sort of scratch that agrees with the setting that is now on the table – not only in the original setting, but also in the slightly less mistrust proposal that came on the table today – and then I mean far into the red-green parts. There's no enthusiasm to track from any team. Don't we have more important things to spend time on, both in this house and in the department, than this? Now it's about 70 years since the Student Cooperation Act was passed in this house. It has been valid for about 40 study places for 70 years, with amazing results — with a welfare offer for students built up during this period, which in many ways has much to learn from. Once in 70 years it's gone wrong, in Narvik. I might as well say, everybody knows that's what this is about. But there were the votes that made things go wrong, they were unanimous. Today's bill would have no effect in Narvik, it would have been just as good or bad, anyway. So we're left with a law that nobody is in favour of and that wouldn't have had any effect on the only example the red-green politicians are able to go forward. Without exempting anyone from responsibility – because it is clear that the red-green politicians who today vote for the distrust of the students are responsible – this shows that there is a dark office in the Ministry of Finance in this country that has more power than good power. With that I give myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2072	I have to say that in this case it has been exciting to see the back exercises of the government parties. I recommend probably more driving hours for exactly reversing, because I think this is going very badly. My statement will also largely focus on matters relating to the Board of Directors, composition and majority decisions. In this case, we now determine how important it is that the students have a majority in the board, because it should be the students who have the board of directors in the organisation, and at the same time, it is clear that the majority is not good enough to make normal decisions in a board of directors who govern such a business. Some people refer to some of this as very special, very different. Some of the things that have now been summarised, which are exceptions requiring a majority of two-thirds, are entirely normal decisions in a board of directors — for example: start a kiosk, start other welfare services, start a kindergarten. So these are not core businesses after the reverse operation today, because today the government has discovered that student housing is a core activity, and we need to have confidence in the students, probably not – or perhaps – in terms of borrowing. I guess none of us are sitting here in the hall right now, which is safe. We heard an interpretation from the Workers' Party's representative saying that while there should be a two-thirds majority in borrowing, it says'major borrowing', the board itself must decide what it is. Control yourself! Yeah, yeah. What is the logic of that, without leading this out? It will be exciting to see how the interpretations are coming forward. I see that the government parties in a press release say this should be decided by the board itself. If it's not about the construction of student housing, what's going to be the case? That must be the greatest financial challenge of communication. The government says they're listening to the students. Yes, then we have not received the same signals from the students, because the students have been very clear that the two thirds requirement must be removed. It's a total mistrust that the majority that students are going to have, and that we're legislating, is not good enough to make important decisions. To remove student housing from the list that has created a two-thirds majority has nothing to do with restoring confidence in the students as decision-makers. I don't think I need to say more. The case rapporteur had a glittering and clear summary of the matter, and it is clear where the dividing lines are in the hall. I am simply asking that the votes also be put to the vote so that the representatives of the Right have the opportunity to vote against what has been commented on in the comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2083	It has to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2086	The focus on economic governance at all levels of society is a good one. It's not a mistrust. It is good to focus on well-managed values. There is no exception to the historically skilled student relations. The proposals that will receive a majority today will help to ensure that we have robust relations for the future as well. It's important to us, precisely because they've worked well. Today we have tabled proposals for one amendment. That's because we've been listening. It's because the student organisations have said that the most important thing for them, in all the exemplification, has been related to what's about investing in new student homes. Investing in new student housing has been a historic task, which student relationships have done well. When we take it out of the list of issues to be adopted by a two-thirds majority, it is because we listen, and because we trust that it will be well managed. Let me link some comments to what's left on that list. I think it is reasonable to have a broad anchoring of heavy economic decisions. So larger borrowings are there. It's not unusual for a government to relate to what's a larger borrowing. If you wanted to clarify it, you had to go in and see that our student relationships are very different. Some are large, some are smaller. We could risk doing things that would kind of impose additional constraints. It is the responsibility of the board to participate in the decision on what is a larger borrowing. And that decision will have to be taken in this way by a simple majority. In all the governments I've been in, it's always been important that you don't get better financial management than the sum of what the government itself is able to do. The changes in laws that are taking place today will be no more dramatic than helping to make the individual responsible for the great financial responsibility it is to sit in such a government. It must, in my opinion, be of the good thing that you are being held responsible. I also think it is important to choose a board of directors that says that no board members, either in student relations, are worth more than others. Everyone counts equally, and the sum of all the good heads creates the best decisions. We believe that the changes we are making today make us do two things. We are able to focus on good financial management, while providing good flexibility and the ability to exercise what they have done well, and will continue to do well. I would warn against believing that this is an area – which, when you hear the representative, Lien – that will be almost forever and always exempt from economic challenges. I don't think that relationships are an exception to others in that way. Making good, robust rules that help to ensure that we have good governance of communications for the future is not mistrustful. That's trust. That's because you want this form to stand forward too. So I'm sure what we're doing today doesn't mean drama. It's important, as they say, that most decisions are made by consensus. I hope that will continue for the future – with the difference that those who sit and deal with this, in some cases will know that it requires a two-thirds majority, and that it gives some board representatives a slightly greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2103	I cannot decide whether it is the content of the matter itself or the argument that is most intimidating. I get to some extent the same feeling as when my aunt was going to have me go in a red dress, and said it was nice to my orange year – and that she was going to decide it and not me. I feel like we're now seeing the side of the red-green that I'm least happy with. That's what they need to fix things that are not destroyed, the will to control detail, to have control – in hiding: when the community's money is managed, we have to control them, we have to be careful, we have to intervene – we have to have other governance structures than what you own. This room manages billions of dollars per year by a simple majority. It's community money. We can do it by a simple majority because we are democratically elected, and we can be cast if we don't do our job – just like the student representatives on the Student Cooperation Boards. The fact that students are to be overruled violates a principle. Regardless of whether one removes one of the words in the Bill on Student Housing, there is a lot left with regard to the students that you now choose to override. There are many countries that have seen Norway in terms of the principle that we have a student welfare model that is guided by and for students. Part of the background to this is that we have had student parliaments and student organisations that are so important to build managers for the future. I also find it strange that this was the first matter that the new knowledge minister chose to deliver to the students. You might get a check, and you can get something for other things, but I think this came out unlucky. We have heard many strange arguments from the government parties – both here and up through – in this case. Perhaps one of the strangest arguments I heard was that the Council of State at our NSO's national meeting thought it wasn't the students she had little confidence in, but the others on the board. Because today they could just shift responsibility away and say that it is the students who have a majority, and thus do not take responsibility for themselves. We know – and we have had it confirmed several times today in this debate – that most decisions take place by consensus. Efforts are being made to create common solutions, good arrangements, for the welfare of students. We know that the students have taken this responsibility seriously, and in terms of the only example we have of financial bankruptcy in our relationships, we know that it was unanimous decisions. So I don't think it keeps taking out just one word in section 6 seventh term and the new eighth term. There, I think you should have the courage to delete the whole thing and keep your trust in the students and the pillar we have, namely that our country's students are community builders. They face the challenges of the country with great responsibility. They show that in the matters in which they engage. They have shown this since 1939, when the first student relationship was established. They have taken responsibility for developing their own well-being. For the Christian People's Party, this is the leaders of the future, and it is strange – and it is alarming – that the government does not have enough confidence to let them keep control of the student relations themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2120	When a government council comes to a college of government and has to present a matter of a student relationship that is conceivable, and the state has to take the bill, one must also expect that there will be a discussion about the governance of student relations. That is what has happened in this case. I'm going to be completely open to that. It has a story that goes back a little bit. It has a close history, and I just have to congratulate the students for passing up several proposals – first, when I was going to present the matter to the Stortinget and cancel the proposal that the department should have the right to dissolve the board, and now, in the main hall, where the red-greens have proposed a change that takes student housing out of section 6 of the seventh paragraph. But I think we're going to try to have a little bit of audacity in the debate. It is such that the student relationship has been largely well managed. It is the case that students and the other board members have largely taken very good responsibility for managing student welfare in Norway. But it is not that all student relationships are bluntly controlled. That's how some of them are in a little -- we'll say -- bad shape. It is the way that students who are members of the board of directors in student relations generally do a very good job and make wise and sensible decisions. But it is also desirable – if one is still to have a structure that is such that it is the students who have a majority of boards and that it is the students who have the right to have a board of directors – that one tries to find a model that gives extra care to large, serious and binding economic decisions. That's what we were looking for when we saw that we're not going to avoid stressing that it's necessary that student relations' boards make sure to anchor wide in their boards when, for example, you're doing it. goes beyond what's at the heart of the problem when you raise large loans. How are we going to manage to do this without rocking by what is the starting point of student co-operation – a foundation-like organisation where students have a majority? That is the background for such proposals. We have to assume that we have student relationships that have too low equity in the future, that can get into trouble. We have to assume that the Storting will deal with criticism from the Riksaudition because we do not have good enough control, and some – what to say – extra attention to taking on big commitments is necessary. If it was the case that I had mistrusted the students, I would have suggested that the students lose the majority in student relations. I haven't distrusted the students. There is nothing happening in any student relations without the students being involved, because the students have a majority, and they have the right to have the manager. It is also the case that, generally when they have the director, they act so wisely that they add up to broad decisions and consensus around it. So this change in the rules will ensure extra care in the boards when making big and comprehensive decisions. It is even the case that the students, who have a majority in co-operation, decide by a simple majority when there are particularly large commitments that require a two-thirds majority. So the whole purpose of this is to make sure that there is a particular care in the boards of student relations when accepting specific obligations that are going to extend far into the future. I think this is a good solution, because our wish has been that we should take care of what is the best tradition in terms of having a student-driven student welfare. It's a fact, however, that at the moment when you're in a situation, the state has to take that bill, because we're responsible for the student welfare. And it is certainly so that if you cannot make suggestions when you see that some student relationships are not solid enough to ensure a robustness in the future, there will be some who have some good arguments for further tightening, which threatens the core structure of student relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2138	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2141	I note that the Council of State says that student housing is taken out of the law, and as far as the legal text is concerned, it is correct, but then we come to the question of whether large borrowings are still to be covered by this provision. Right now you are hardly looking at what the money should be used for. Then my short question is: how big is a large borrowing, and who is going to consider what is a large borrowing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2146	It is simply the rule of simple majority that is to be judged. And point two: it's not possible to say an amount, a percent or a limit on this, because student relationships are very different. Their equity coverage is very different, and their level of turnover is very different – so that's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2151	In part, the Council of State is right – and I agree – that it was the Norwegian Ministry of Finance office, which the Council of State knows much better than I do, which is partly behind this proposal. Then I wonder, how would what we are adopting today have allowed us to avoid the situation that was the reason, according to the Council of State, for this change, namely the problems encountered in the Student Cooperation in Narvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2156	It is quite right that the examples you've had of less wise decisions in student relations have not happened by the students using a tricked majority or voting down the rest of a board. What's behind the changes that are now being proposed is to bring forward a special care, and I think that might have been lacking in those governments that have not made as wise decisions. But then I want to say the following: there's something a little strange in the discussion, because I haven't heard anyone who has said that the highest of democratic governance of student relations is scarce decisions in the board of directors regarding big economic decisions. On the contrary, everyone has said that we are striving for a consensus, and that it is important that there is agreement on what commits us further in the future. In that case, we really agree on the reality that the major, comprehensive decisions that bind the relationship in the future should be widely agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2163	It is quite strange to hear how matters from the students about feeling distrust are not taken seriously. It's quite strange that no one sees that it's quite strange to have a majority in a government, and say that it's still not enough. There's a fundamental difference, as the students have pointed out. There have been many arguments in this case, and in one context, I saw that the Council of State went into this with the board of directors, that is, the competence of those who sit on the boards, as one of the reasons why it was important by a two-thirds majority. I don't know if it is then that if more people with little competence make a decision, it's better. What does the Council of State think is sufficient competence for board members to have a simple majority in a board of directors?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2170	I don't think I've been in there commenting on anything about either one or the other person's board of directors, and I expect those elected to the boards of student relations to be competent. What is behind this case is a wish that the boards of student relations, which is a special device – it's a foundation-like organisation – make the decisions. In very many other areas of society where the state is responsible for an organisation — or as in this case, student welfare, but carried out by the interaction — the state has a completely different governance. In very many other contexts, the Council of State is a general assembly and can cast the board, and all large borrowings have to be approved by the Council of State. So this is a special construction, where the board has a great deal of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2177	This is probably like in other foundations, where there are also systems for how it is handled. But I want to go to something else. So it's now that starting, as I said, a kindergarten, a gym or something like that requires a two-thirds majority. Again, this is strange with regard to the confidence of the students to have this welfare offer. So, in addition, it's a prerequisite that this business should make a profit, which makes a contribution to the student welfare. How has the Council of State seen that by decision to start new activities, it is necessary to demonstrate that this will lead to profits?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2186	That's the exact same thing: you have to have special care if you're going to start a new type of business. It's because we have to make sure that what's today's student cooperation design is sustainable in the long term. The examples we have of companies that have undermined student cooperation are where they have gone beyond what is the core tasks, hope for profit, but not profit. In fact, there is a situation in which either the public funds or the students themselves are to be paid for, for example. sponsoring a student inn. Then we are far inside something that may even be contrary to EEA law. So this is an important provision to clean up the kind of risk you can take with it the starting point for funding that student relationships have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2191	The Council of State is talking about a desire for robust financial management and special attention being paid. Nevertheless, we do not get any examples of where there are a two-thirds majority who would have ensured this with regard to the decisions that have been in student relations until now. At the NSO national meeting, the Council of State also suggested that the students had not fully understood the proposal made by the government. I think the students through the last debates have shown that they have understood, but they still disagree. My simple little question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State have no understanding of the reactions of all the students who have sent messages to the Red-Green parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2198	What I've been concerned about is trying to find the reasonable compromise in this case. The proposal at the hearing was far more comprehensive in terms of the constraints on how student relations were to be conducted. That is why I discontinued the proposal that the Ministry of Knowledge should have the opportunity to dissolve the boards. I also tightened up when it came to what would require a two-thirds majority. That threshold has been further raised by what is the discussion here. What I believe students' relationships are served on a long-term basis is a robustness around the decisions that are taken and that binds the economy in the future. This robustness can be ensured by stressing that there should be broad consensus in the boards about this. The students decide in any case – there can be no decision in a co-operation board without the student’s agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2208	When I hear from the Council of State, I remember my old professor of history, who sometimes, when he couldn't fully explain why people did what they did, used to say, they had a reason, but some good reason was probably not. Now we've heard the real reason. It was the government's problem to get this through – with what happened in Narvik – that was why this came about. I'm going to raise the question a little bit. The Council of State comes from a party which, together with the Left, fights to introduce the voting rights of 16-year-olds, and which sees it as important for younger people to be heard. But here there's a special group, which you think it's particularly dangerous for when it comes to making basic and big decisions about money. It would have been interesting to hear what the Council of State has thought, which means that this group, which is students, is incredibly much less qualified to take such decisions than the other board representatives are. What's scary about students, which makes this particularly irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2215	It's a question that I'm very happy to get. This is not about whether or not a small majority of the student relationship is primarily composed of students. This is about how to ensure that there is a reasonable degree of consensus or broad consensus in a board of directors on a major and decisive decision that binds it financially and that activity in the future. There's no other way to do it. It's not about the age or shape of the students. It is a desire for major, important and significant decisions to be taken by a two-thirds majority. I am a strong supporter of the voting rights of 16-year-olds and the expansion of democracy in many areas. But I'm also a strong supporter of that e.g. amendments to the constitution or other essential decisions of some companies shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority. It has nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2224	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2229	I record that the representatives from SV, especially Heidi Sørensen and the Council of State, state that if one requires a two-third majority, the board members become more careful in their decisions. There's a logical flaw in me. It is also not my experience with all the boards I have been a member of. I expect the board members to have this kind of care all the time, and maybe extra if it's a simple majority, that's a normal majority, that decides it. Then it becomes an even more provocative act. The second thing that I almost have to ask about is the following: Now it is fixed in posts after posts – and the Council of State fixed it again at the end – that in order to ensure good financial management it is important to do this. Is this a new principle? Dagrun Eriksen was also interested in it in his post. Is this a new principle that SV is now in favour of, that in all possible democratic contexts one should, for example: with regard to the economy, have a two-thirds majority, because it ensures good financial management – at Stortinget, in local government and in enterprises, for all those covered by the Shares Act, which is the closest when we deal with this law today? Is this the new principle SV should now fight to ensure good financial management – two-thirds majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2236	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2250	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2259	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and effective cooperation in this matter. I would also like to thank the Left for raising the matter for Stortinget. There has been a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the need for graduated traineeships. I am pleased that the government parties are coming a long way to meet us on this matter, and admit that this action has so far had a very positive effect on the students who have needed it. Today’s knowledge and competence communities are increasingly demanding for a educated population, and the need for skilled labour is increasing. It is then worrying that Norway has a major decline, both in high school and in higher education. In particular, in key areas such as engineering, health and teacher training, a major problem is encountered. This leads to considerable expenditure, both for society in general and for individual students in particular. In order to contribute to the reduction of some of this non-response, it is important to establish schemes that provide students with the best possible care and that enable more people to complete the initial training course. We know that many of those who drop out do so on the basis of mental and psychosocial problems, and that's exactly why we have legislation and arrangements for health care and scholarship payments for students today. But the problem with today's system of disease prevention is that this only applies to those who are 100 pst. medically reported. We know that there are several students who need a graduated medical report, where they may be ill-appointed, for example. 50 or 75 pst, at the same time producing study scores. Today's system either chooses to report 100 pst., even if you had the opportunity to produce some study credits, or you're not at all sick, and you drop out of the studies because you can't finish. In the context of the terrorist attacks on 22 July, the government decided to introduce a temporary scheme of graduated disease prevention in the 2011-2012 academic year, which was subsequently extended to cover the whole of 2012. This arrangement was made available not only to those who were hit there specifically, but to all students who needed it. This shows that the government realises the need for a graduated search report in several cases and for several groups, and from the government parties it is also pointed out that this scheme has worked very positively for the students who have used it. The proposal also addresses the problems of the scheme for students receiving sick pay or redundancy benefits, as well as those students who have children under the age of 12. The common factor around all these challenges is that the rules are perceived as for rigidity and prevent flexibility and adaptation for the individual student. We see that the system, which was actually set up to adapt to individuals, now rather prevents individuals from establishing their daily study life according to their needs. Among other things, we see that this applies to those students who have part-time jobs, who lose the right to sickness benefit. Finally, I would just like to stress the importance of this proposal. The drop-out in higher education is high, too high. We see that we need schemes that can be adapted to the individual student. There are many reasons for non-response, but we know that mental or psychosocial problems are a major part of it for a large group, and that a graduated medical report could help more people to produce multiple study credits within a certain period of time and not drop out completely. A graduation of sick leave is very natural for workers in the labour market, and then I find it nice that this is not as natural for students who are studying. With this in mind, I would like to promote those proposals in which the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2282	The representative Mette Hanekamhaug has taken up the suggestions she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2285	Thank you to the rapporteur for handling the matter well in the committee and also for a good report now. But I would warn the representative Hanekamhaug not to use the term ‘chosen to report’, because there is no one who does. You go to the doctor to get a search report, and you don't even choose the level of the search message. For the Workers' Party, our whole history has been about giving more people the opportunity to take education and giving more people the opportunity to take higher education. With the creation of the National Student Loan Fund in 1947, there was another measure to ensure more rights to education in place. Now that we're looking at the situation in Europe, where students are protesting violently against increasing costs of education, I think we have good reason to be proud of our study funding and the free principle of higher education. But there is also room for improvement, as we saw clearly when Norway was hit by the terror of July 22. I want to commend the government and the responsible state council for being on the road quickly and showing the will and ability to organize for the many who needed it. One of the measures introduced in the context of the terrorist attack was a temporary admission scheme for students and students at least 50 pst. medically reported. I think that is right, and it was important that the scheme was applied to all students and students, regardless of the connection to July 22. The temporary scheme was initially to cover the 2011-2012 academic year, but we have also noticed that this scheme has been well received, and that this has been a wish from the student movement for a long time. In the comments on the matter we are dealing with, the government parties have written that we had to come back to a possible continuation in budgetary terms. For us who are in position, it is a point that there is coverage in the budget for things we propose in this room. I am therefore pleased that the government in the revised budget proposes to continue the scheme until 2013. For the Workers' Party and the Government, it is important that sickness should not punish itself financially. It is nice that there is a commitment to this principle among the parties at Stortinget in terms of students. So I would like us to agree on this principle equally when it comes to Norwegian workers, but there is probably an opportunity to discuss it on another occasion. The background to the introduction of the morbidity programme was that students who get sick and often spend longer on education should not end up with higher indebtedness than other students. With graduated morbidity, this principle will also apply to those who are less than 100 pst. medically reported but above 50 pst. medically reported. So to some of the opposition's comments, because they're making some statements that aren't exactly true. In the case they write that students who produce credits do not have the right to sickness benefit. That's not right. It is now fully possible to be 100 pst. sick-once and receive sick-once during the semester and nevertheless be allowed to go to the exam and produce study credits. So it's not a condition to get sick-tempered that you don't pass the exam, so here, there's a greater flexibility in the ordinary system than the proposals give the impression. The opposition also notes that students with sick children may lose their entitlement to sickness benefits if the other parent has a different income than scholarships and loans. That's not right either. For a student with a sick child under 12 years of age, the right to sickness benefit shall be independent of the income of the other parent, so here we believe that the legislation is good enough today. Then we see that there may be reasons to coordinate student welfare schemes in other types of welfare schemes and disease prevention, and that this can be perceived today as problematic and not flexible. It's an important principle – I repeat it – that students who get sick from part-time work, who are entitled to medical treatment, should not lose financially if you are ill. We've noticed that, and we're taking it with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2306	The representative Stine Renate Håheim has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2309	This is an issue that deals with economics – it is clarified – it concerns systems, but it deals primarily with individuals who need – and have received – help through the schemes that are now in place. Once they're put in place, and they've given good results, I think it's a little weird that one can't reach a common agreement on the desire to continue the arrangements, and then one can rather take the economy when it comes. Just predictability that such schemes may last will be important for many of them, who may have started the studies with some activity again, and who are now uncertain about how this will proceed in the future. That's why I think it's very strange – although it's nice posts here from the pulpit – that the government parties can't be more clear and say that this is what we're going to work to incorporate. With regard to the legislation on disease prevention, I ended up in a discussion with my advisor because I refused to believe that it was true what was said. If you, for example, So if you have a small bijobb as a student in whom you are sick, you will lose the opportunity to receive the same offer in the case of the grant scheme. This makes these students feel worse financially. So even though the previous speaker was up here and said that you didn't want that to happen, you still agree with the proposal that we have to look at these rules, so that students don't get hurt if they're sick and at the same time have a part-time job. The strange thing here is the total rejection of the proposal. Instead of inviting us to a solution where we look at this further in the future, I note that even if you vote against it today, it is said from the pulpit that we will continue to work on it. Then we'll make sure that this happens in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2318	In this case, I have been more satisfied with the red-greens than I was in the previous case. It has been crucial for those who experienced July 22nd, to have the possibility of graduated health care, and it was essential that it was made available to everyone who was in a similar situation. That the government was able to deliver it so quickly, the government should be commended for. They shall also be credited with the extension of this scheme in the context of the revised national budget, so that it expires in 2012 and not only in the current academic year. The case rapporteur addressed the need for classified search reports in a good way. It may be especially where you have had a mental illness of a shorter or longer nature, that you have had an extra need for classified health care. In the workplace, you have a larger network around you when you are sick, and a closer follow-up than you have in your study period. During the study period you are very lonely, and if you are sick without having the opportunity to receive a certified medical report and contact with the study site along the way, you will easily feel that the distance to return is too great. That's one side of having graduated the search message. The other side is coming back. If you've been out due to a mental illness, it's going to be 100 pst. back at once, extremely tough. It can easily lead to relapses and not mastering, so that mental illness comes back. For this reason, it is also a strong recommendation from the health service to withdraw, whether in the case of studies or jobs. The tragic event we experienced on July 22 has made it clear that this is a challenge for many, and the government has responded to it. I addressed this issue on 13 January 2009 in an interview with the then state council, Tora Aasland. Some later changes were made in the budget, but this was not the case with classified search reports. I hope that the government will now allow those who experienced July 22 to be people of the past who have gone ahead and made better welfare arrangements – and dense holes – that are valid for others who experience trauma, who experience mental illness, and who need the same network and the same arrangements that we now have. I am satisfied with the small steps taken by the government, but I would strongly encourage this to be a permanent arrangement, that it is not retained as a temporary arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2335	I would also like to start by thanking the case rapporteur. It's not that often we discuss student welfare or student policy here in the hall, so it's pretty big that we have two things on the rap. What is important for the Left, and the reason why we promoted this proposal, is that we want more flexibility in the system. It's in this context to put people first, or students first, that we're going to make systems around people instead of trying to make people fit into the systems. This has long been a big wish at NSO and LO, and several organisations have been on the team to get it done. The left has proposed this several times in the context of budgets, over and over again. After the tragic event last year, the government went in and made this a temporary arrangement. Then we thought that now it might be possible to get a majority to make this a permanent arrangement. Then at least it's not the principle you're against. Then there might be a chance that, in a unique situation, we'll be able to have a majority for something in this room that we've been in for too long. But then it happens again that always happens, that you vote against because there are some others who have suggested it. Yes, the government has now proposed to extend the temporary scheme for the next majorisation period, and it is not certain that the government needs to be responsible for it either. Then you could really have stretched out your hands and said that now we can agree on something. It can't be the principle you disagree with. It must be that you commit to donating money over a long period of time, which is the challenge. Here I had hoped that we might come together when this proposal was on the table. I'm getting very skeptical here. I have to admit – I'm sure you shouldn't reveal this – that when you get a proposal from someone, and a staging representative or other people say thank you for the recording, it speaks very well for the proposal to end up in the drawer. I felt a little bit when the representative from the Workers' Party had posts here today, that we got the message: Thanks for the recording. I hope this can be a long-term arrangement, because it's good for the students, it's good for all those who want to build skills here in the country, and it's fundamentally fair. It's a great justice reform, if we can make this flexibility in the system. But we're going to keep proposing it in budgets, we're going to keep proposing it in programmes, and then we're going to hope that we'll ever meet with something other than thanks for the recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2348	In connection with what happened in Oslo and on Utøya on 22 July and in the period after, we have tried in many areas to make sure that there is more flexibility in the systems, so that it is possible for students and students who have very dramatic events behind them to participate a little bit. It's better than nothing, it's been the slogan – because there's something about being able to come back and be normalized in a situation. Now this isn't especially for those who have experienced July 22nd. There are also other students and students in other kinds of situations who experience very dramatic things, which can be very disruptive given the course of education they have set up, and where it is important to have liberalism and flexibility to run the pace. Then we've been up in some dilemmas, for example.What should we do with the exam and the ability to score? There we decided not to change the regulations, because in the next round you are very easy in a situation where you, for example. encourages young people to follow a trial from day to day and hour to hour, and it may not be lucky that they come out with that kind of call. So there's been some challenges here about students' ability to be sick. For the students, too, we have had a desire to say: It is better to be able to hang out than to give up completely – given the experience of the period around Utøla and the terrorist attack in Oslo. What I hope for now is that we also have some experience of how this has worked. Now we actually have experience from a full year of study – two semesters – with how this has worked. Among the counter-representations regarding the permanent implementation of such a scheme are: arguments such as that is a difficult-to-control and orderly scheme. When you're a student, there'll be a lot of studies where you take an exam – and it's a 50 pst. or 100 pst. student taking an exam? Because this has worked for a while, I think we can take some experience from there -- I'm going to do that -- and then we'll see how we can make sure that it's also possible for students to be a little bit involved, and not 100 pst. one or 100 pst. the second, although it should be said that this has more to do with what kind of debt you're left with, and does not limit the possibility of actually being involved in the studies. I take with me the suggestions that lie here – what is in the position of both majority and minority – and then we look at how we can safeguard the possibility that I want students to have, namely the possibility of being part-time students even during periods when you are partially ill. The same logic that we use in all other areas of society is also desirable to apply to Norwegian students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2367	As I said, we are pleased that the government is coming a long way to meet both us and the entire opposition in this matter, but we also find it a pity that the well-being of the students does not weigh so heavily that they adopt this as a principle and take the budgetary consequences for this for the harvest, when they arrive. It's strange: we see that the sickness pay scheme is organized to be long-term and provide stability for those who need it, precisely because in many cases this group often needs the stability and long-termity that these schemes provide. The budgetary implications are subsequently taken into account. We in the Progress Party believe that students deserve the same stability and continuity in the health care system and that the budgetary implications for the harvest are taken when they are available. My question is: what does the Council of State think is the fundamental difference between the terms of the employees and the terms of the students associated with the application, since you are not willing to have the same principles for the students as for the employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2376	I would like to get back to this matter when we discuss the 2013 budget. One of the arguments in the discussion about students and employees is: has one exam that proves you're 100 pst. Student – there are many studies like that – and you take that exam, it is reasonable that you have been 50 pst. medically reported the time it takes to arrive at that exam? It could be a challenge. So the arguments for such an arrangement are more about how it's possible to measure whether students are 50 pst. sick-once or not, other than the principle of equal treatment with professionals. I can come back to it when we get to the budget for 2013, because I hope we have some experience from the period we have actually completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2381	What I don't get the whole roof on is, once you've opened up for this, you can't basically be against trying it. Sick though you opened it to everyone, it was linked to a special occasion, a disaster in the lives of very many young people. But such disasters occur in life and can occur in many other contexts than exactly what we were exposed to that day. I hope the Council of State can say that in principle she has nothing against such an arrangement. I have great faith in the bureaucracy around the state council, that they can find arrangements for this and for hints, because they use it to manage, to say it like that. I just want the Council of State to say whether she is in principle for such a kind of arrangement, and then you get to work on the evaluations related to exams, study credits and all that the Council of State does otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2386	First, it is important to note that this rule applies to everyone, whether or not they were related to the Excursion of July 22nd or not during this period. Secondly, I never want anyone to say anything bad about some of the bureaucrats that I am responsible for. Thirdly, I wish we could find a reasonable system in which students could be partially sick, but which was not at the same time a system that could be accused of abuse. It's in the balance sheet I think we have to try to find a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2391	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2399	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2407	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. In the course of the debate, the proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal, in which case it reads as follows: ‘The Government is advised to set up a sample to carry out an independent and comprehensive evaluation of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan. The committee should be mandated, inter alia, to evaluate the initial mission to which Norway committed itself - strategically and operationally, cooperation and coordination between civil and military engagement, the security situation of Norwegian personnel and the follow-up of personnel after the end of their mandate.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will then propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on developments in Afghanistan as well as Norwegian civil and military engagement held at the Storting meeting on 29 May 2012 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2422	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 6, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 8, by Svein Harberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 9, by Svein Harberg on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No. 10, from Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce admission requirements for nursing training and to require minimum grade 3 in Norwegian, math and English and a requirement of 3.5 on average.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2458	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the examination in English.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2473	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make provision for minimum physical requirements for admission to training in the ambulatory profession.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2488	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that advances in Norwegian, math and English are offered to applicants for nurse training when the characteristics so require.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2503	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the possibility for immigrants to complete their professional training in Norway in order to complement their skills from their home country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2518	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess positive incentives to stimulate health and welfare activities to facilitate more practice places.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives from the county councils to provide the teaching facility TAF Health so that it can become a nationwide offer.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting on the issue of a national high-level education service.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue today’s study model for medical training.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a new and better education for prehospital services quickly in cooperation with relevant professional environments, employers and educational institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2571	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left motion No. 2, by Mr Lien, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 3, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Elisabeth Proposals Nos. 1-3 is included on pages 6 and 7 of the setting. Proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a 30-point requirement to teach in all subjects at the childhood and 60-points to teach in all subjects at the youth level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2603	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 61 on primary and secondary education, the following changes are made: the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2-8 is replaced by the following: If necessary, such pupils are also entitled to bilingual vocational training. The second paragraph is deleted. The current third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: where bilingual vocational training cannot be provided by own teaching staff, the municipality shall, as far as possible, provide for other training to be adapted to the requirements of the pupils. § 3-12, first paragraph, last sentence, is replaced by the following: if necessary, such pupils are also entitled to bilingual vocational training. The second paragraph is deleted. The current third paragraph is replaced by the following: where bilingual vocational training cannot be provided by own teaching staff, the county council shall, as far as possible, provide for other training to be adapted to the requirements of the pupils.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2638	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan for the qualification of current teachers in order to meet new skills requirements within a defined transitional period and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2653	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the introduction of child-care skills equivalent to 60 points of study in the Norwegian, mathematical and English disciplines and 30 points of study for other subjects. In the case of youth, requirements equivalent to 60 credits are introduced in all the teacher’s teaching subjects. This presupposes adaptations to teacher training in order to enable newly-trained teachers to meet the requirements of competence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2938	It is contested by I, § 10-2, third and fifth paragraphs. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2953	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2964	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2974	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e2982	During the debate, Stine Renate Håheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, replacing Section 6, the seventh paragraph and the new eighth paragraph under I of the recommendation. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3104	It is votered over I, § 3, second paragraph, and § 9, new second paragraph. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3117	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3127	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3137	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3145	During the debate, Mette Hanekamhaug has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the scheme of graduated scholarships for students permanent from the academic year 2012 to 2013.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a more flexible system of health insurance legislation.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3189	Referral case No The minutes are appended to the proposal. Does the representative, Harald T. Nesvik, wish to speak? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3194	This is a matter that comes as a result of Section 11-3 of the Election Act, which goes on the allocation of the Grandfather's mandate every eight years. Pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Section 11-3 of the Election Act, the Ministry is required to inform the Grand Duchy of the outcome of the calculation of the mandate, but no guidance has been given on how this matter should be handled and how the notice should be given. The Presidency has proposed that this should only be annexed to the minutes. This is the first time we have this type of case, reporting to Stortinget. This will apply to the next two major choices. On behalf of the Progress Party, I propose that this matter be transferred to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, so that a setting is made. As this is the first time this matter is submitted to Stortinget, we have not had any procedure on this until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3203	It is true, as was said, that this is a follow-up to the current electoral law. The theme we're about to travel, we've been discussing in the presidency. I would just like to briefly inform you that there was agreement in the presidency, except for a current President, that the right procedure is to attach the matter to the minutes – precisely because this is a practical follow-up to previous decisions in the Stortinget and thus serves as an indication of how the distribution of mandates will be in the next period. I would recommend that everyone, and perhaps in particular everyone outside the Advancement Party, support the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-05.ana.ud923e3218	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
