ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e26	The representative Per Arne Olsen will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e29	On behalf of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I would like to make a proposal to extend the system of heart pump as long-term treatment, not just as a bridge to transplantation, and also a proposal to ensure health professionals professional updates in the pharmaceutical field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e34	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e37	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I will make a proposal on climate action in Norway. It is the most comprehensive proposal I have in my time been involved in promoting, and consists of 45 measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e42	The representative Siri A. Meling will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e45	On behalf of the representatives of Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Lars Myraune, Nikolai Astrup, Bjørn Lødemel and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a plan of measures to reduce the concession processing time for power development and transmission systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e50	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e53	On behalf of Morten Ørsal Johansen, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on incentives to continue working on a more efficient and robust municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e71	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e78	Let me first say that I think it's very nice that the Prime Minister comes to the Stortinget, it's been a long time since we've seen him. To challenge the position is just an important part of democracy. In recent times, there have been many relatively eye-catching headlines in the media that reveal something we already know, namely that there is a dramatic and significant lag in out-of-date equipment at the country’s hospital. It is so old and out of date that it is expressed from several teams that there is a risk to patient safety. I know that a lot of people use eBay, among other things. to look for parts of veteran cars that have left production, but it becomes quite absurd when you see Norwegian doctors sitting on eBay to find spare parts and equipment to be used in the treatment of Norwegian patients. Once we get there, at least the Progress Party tells us that it is now time to decide on an investment plan with earmarked funds to ensure that all the country's hospitals can renew their equipment park for proper patient treatment. Only in the case of Health South-East is estimated to be over 3 billion. kr. Oslo University Hospital alone has a follow-up of nearly 2 billion. kr in order to obtain modern equipment for the proper treatment of patients. My question to the Prime Minister is very simple: Will he support the Progress Party's proposal for a financing plan with earmarked funds to replace the equipment at the country's hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e89	The government will increase the allocation of hospitals, so that they can spend money on what they think is best and most important for patients, and to further increase the quality of Norwegian hospitals. There will be a combination of investment in equipment, investment in construction and investment in people: personnel, doctors, nurses and other health professionals. The starting point is that there are deficiencies in the Norwegian hospital system. That's why we increased the appropriations by about 10 billion. kr and will continue to increase the appropriations. The reason is also that more and more people are working in Norwegian hospitals – 120 000 people are working in Norwegian hospitals, more than ever before – and that we are treating more patients than ever before. Nevertheless, it is missing. That's why we're going to continue the escalation. But I think it's a good idea that we give hospitals some freedom to decide how we get the most health again for the extra dollars they get this year, and they're also going to get next year. The most important thing the government does is to be concerned with the quality of the health care system, and we do that by measuring more quality. Then we see that there is a lack of damage. But we also see, when we compare with other countries, that we now have one of the world's best health services. Where we have comparable numbers, for example: in the case of cancer, Norway is at the peak in terms of survival. There are 30,000 people who get cancer every year in Norway. There are many who have bad experiences associated with it, but fortunately more and more survive. For the types of cancer we can compare – e.g. Breast cancer, cervical cancer and some other cancers – Norway is either the best in the world or among those with a clear highest survival rate. The main objective of health is whether we succeed in treating more patients and in providing them with good quality. We are not good enough in Norway, but we are among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e101	Yes, we have received reports that growth in addition to the country's hospitals is primarily due to growth in administration and bureaucracy, not necessarily growth in patient treatment. It is also a challenge that the Prime Minister should address. But he answers what he usually does, namely, that the annual budgets of hospitals should determine the priorities the hospitals take. The problem is that the hospitals and the health minister state directly that whether there will be investment in new equipment depends on whether the hospitals are able to cope with a small surplus that frees funds for that purpose. It's an unsustainable situation over time. Hospitals need to have a sound plan to replace out-of-date, out-of-date, old health-threatening equipment with new and modern equipment. We are now in a situation where, among other things: at the Radium Hospital has been dependent on private donors to modernise the equipment park. I guess that's not how the Prime Minister wants it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e108	I think it is important that a government that is responsible for the health care system sees that there are shortcomings and weaknesses, and is impatient and trying to do something about it, and that the government is looking after itself well to paint the health care situation. I am careful not to do so, and therefore I point to the defects. But I also think it's important that the opposition fits to not paint black. When you listen to Siv Jensen's articles, you get the impression that there are very sad conditions in the Norwegian hospital system. The truth is that we hardly find a single country in the world that has better results in terms of health, treatment and survival of serious diseases. It's because we've invested more money, more resources in health care. We haven't spent any money on administration. We treated 1.3 million more people in Norwegian hospitals in 2010 than we did in 2005 – so treatment and investigations have increased by 1.3 million in those years. It's an impressive increase, and it helps us get better results in the health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e115	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e118	The question was initially about equipment, and not the whole rule that everything is very good. Much is very good in the Norwegian health care system – it also acknowledges the Progress Party. But when we, as health politicians, talk about how happy it is with the expected increase in life expectancy, we tend to talk about patients, about the population, and not about the equipment. It is, I know, an expected life expectancy of 10.2 years of medical technology, while the average life expectancy of the device in Health South-East now is 10.6 years – that is, longer than the life expectancy. A jet engine in Oslo is now 19 years old – as old as my son and considerably older than the car of both the Prime Minister and the undersigned. What worries me the most is that research also suffers from this. The question will then be: Will the Prime Minister be involved in an investment plan to improve conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e127	I have a plan. It is continuing to strengthen hospitals, giving them more money and providing them with more resources, but not least to reorganize them so that we get even more health for the large funds we spend in Norwegian hospitals. This means that there will also be money for investment in both equipment and construction. Since the state took over the hospitals, $65 billion has been invested. kr. That's a lot of money. There are certainly examples of equipment that are old. That's why we're increasing the appropriations, so that we can also do something about it. In the case of cancer treatment, which was mentioned as an example, that is the area where we have seen the best progress. Still, there are shortcomings, but we have to be glad that the probability of surviving a cancer diagnosis in Norway is the highest in the world – or among the highest in the world – for the measurable cancer forms we can compare.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e134	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e137	What one experiences in the Norwegian healthcare system is that when a hospital or department opens, the equipment is top modern, brand new. Then a department operates for many years, and eventually the equipment gets worn out, expired on date, and there is a great danger of e.g. it breaks down during operations, that it leads to a breakdown and longer waiting times. This is a mountain-and-dalway attitude to medical devices that compromise patient safety, leading to longer waiting times and to waste of resources. This week we had a live broadcast on TV 2 that gasroscopy equipment broke down and broke down during the operation. That is what it took for those who work in that department to finally get through to get money for new equipment. At Oslo University Hospital, there are 700 different IT systems. When will the government put away its private allergy and open up so that Norwegian hospitals can also cooperate with private suppliers to ensure a uniform standard and even cost... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e147	As we have seen, there are many examples of varying quality of equipment in Norwegian hospitals. There are examples of equipment that is top modern and very good, and then there is a lot of equipment that is definitely that good, and then there are examples of equipment that is too bad. So that's why we're increasing investment in hospitals, giving more money, and investing billions every year, and more than ever before. But the main goal of success in hospitals is the quality of treatment. Then the goal is to make people healthy in Norwegian hospitals. So we're doing it to a greater extent than before, we're doing it to a greater extent than other countries, and there are 1.3 million more treatments and investigations in Norwegian hospitals now than in 2005. Thus, I have not said that everything is good, but I have said that it is progress because we spend more time in hospitals. We're going to continue this bet, and then we want to achieve even better results than we can do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e154	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e157	We hear that there is a major lack of medically satisfactory equipment. But the most alarming thing about Oslo University Hospital is that there is a full stop in the development of ICT solutions after the purchased system was cancelled last year. As we heard, they're now operating with 700 different computer systems, and they don't have a common journal system. It is serious when they have been a health business for three years. According to employees, Oslo University Hospital is now back at the same level of ICT functions as it was before the merger started three years ago. My question is: how can the Prime Minister and the Government continue the conversion of Oslo University Hospital at the same pace as planned, when one of the key prerequisites for good patient safety, namely an up-to-date and compatible ICT system, is not established?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e164	Firstly, getting a better and more coherent ICT system in hospitals – and here the government fully agrees with the opposition on the Stortinget – is important and crucial in order to improve the quality of healthcare. That is why the work is under way. There are own programmes, their own follow-up projects, to get a more comprehensive ICT system in the Norwegian health system. It has been going on for a while – a great and extensive work needs to be done. In the case of Oslo University Hospital, there's also work there. The problem was that what you had started turned out to be not working, and then you started a new project. Health South-East will continue the reorganisation of Oslo University Hospital, but all the time in a way that ensures patient safety. If examples and supervisory reports show that there is a rapid progress now, it will, of course, be taken into account in its implementation. But that we're going to carry out that reorganisation, I'm sure, because it helps to promote health and better quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e171	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e174	If you look at the international newscasts every day, there's a good reason at the moment to be happy that we live in Norway. The situation in several countries with challenges in terms of budgetary constraints and high youth unemployment means that we should be humble considering how good we are in Norway. Nevertheless, every week the Nordics experience uncertainty about their jobs. It is enterprises that warn deflagration and closure in Norway. More people report more difficult competitive conditions. This means that we should never rest on the question of how to improve and secure Norwegian jobs. The Norwegian economy is on the way not only to being divided by two, but probably by three: the public sector and the oil-related sector are doing well, but the competitive private sector is struggling significantly. My question to the Prime Minister is: What does he intend to do to ensure the competitiveness of the part of Norwegian business that competes and experiences the greatest challenges? Last week, Norsk Industrie presented a report showing that in several areas Norwegian competitiveness has deteriorated. Some things politicians don't control, some things we control, for example. what we spend money on through the state budget. The Norwegian Industry report shows that for the second consecutive year there is zero growth in the appropriations for research. In addition, it shows that nutrient research has decreased. It shows that there has been an increase in the taxation of enterprises and owners in Norway. In the past, from the national budget, we know that productivity developments in Norway have been, and still are, lower than those needed to keep the welfare society of Norway funded in the future. What is the Prime Minister's strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e185	Firstly, I think it is very important that we discuss what we can do to secure the Norwegian economy. Secondly, the most dangerous thing we do in our country is to think that the oil will always save us. Oil revenues are an advantage to have in the Norwegian economy, but they are no guarantee of success. We had oil revenues in the 1990s – yet we had financial crisis, banking crisis, debt crisis and high unemployment. There was a run-in to one of the same things at the beginning of the 2000s. Then we had oil money, but also a sharp decline in Norwegian industry and growing unemployment. So one thing that matters is that oil money gives us opportunities, but they have to be well managed if we are to avoid having problems – unemployment and reduced value creation – in the private sector. The second is that the government has many measures that we – and will implement – to secure private, competitive Norwegian businesses. Item No 1 is to keep track of the basics of the Norwegian economy, such as the use of oil and interest rate and exchange rate. Item No 2 is the bet on transportation. Transport investment is increasing by up to 10 billion. kr per year – much higher than what has been done in the past – and it starts to produce results. Item No 3 is investing in innovation and research – and this has increased by several billion dollars since 2005. Item No 4 is simplification: many governments have talked about simplification, this government has implemented significant simplification measures for business, including: the removal of the audit obligation and lower requirements for public limited liability companies. Item No 5 is what I would call more targeted action against specific industries – the yard package, which came a few years ago, and what has now come with GIEK, with a new government and safer export financing system, or what is being done, for example. facilitating the development of Norwegian oil and gas activities. These are examples of nutrient-oriented measures that are important for Norwegian enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e202	I appreciate the Prime Minister's analysis. We agree with a lot of these things, not least the concern that the non-oil-related part of Norwegian business can now be at risk of being decommissioned and moved out. This will weaken welfare funding in Norway in the years to come. However, it is a bit striking – one week after Norsk Industrie has provided documentation with the state’s own figures – to hear the Prime Minister say that a lot of research has been done, so when one states that this is the second year in a row with zero growth in research appropriations, that there are fewer appropriations for nutrient research, and that companies in Norway pay increased taxes through changes in property tax systems, repatriation, charging and not least a very business-friendly wealth tax. Then my question is back to the Prime Minister: is it a good strategy to increase taxes and weaken research to make sure that competitive business actually goes better in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e209	This government is pursuing a business-friendly policy. We have increased research, and we have created a more predictable and tidy tax system. Since we took over, over 207 000 new jobs have been created in private enterprises in Norway — in the four years of the previous government, 26 000 were created. So we're talking about a quantum difference in how much growth it's been in private business. There has been a significantly higher growth in private enterprises in Norway, in private business in Norway, under this government compared to the previous one. So I'm not saying that we can't do things better. We're always going to try to make things even better and step up our efforts, but to hear from Solberg's representative that this government is hostile to business, so when we have seven-eight times stronger growth in private employment now than under the previous government, is – with respect to reporting – a little strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e216	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e219	It is not surprising that many jobs were created in the period 2004–08, when there was strong growth in the world economy. What we have seen after the financial crisis, on the other hand, is that Norway has lost jobs in the private sector, while there have been very many new jobs in the public sector. In countries such as Sweden and Germany, more jobs are now being created in private enterprises. The report to Norsk Industrie shows that companies need a government that provides companies with wind and not headwinds. The Prime Minister says he's open to do things better. He should also respond to the two very specific challenges he received from the representative Erna Solberg. It's about taxes, and it's about research and development. There is evidence that there has been zero growth in research and development appropriations. Granting research and development is perhaps one of the most important things we can do for businesses in the future. Secondly, it has been demonstrated that the taxes on enterprises have increased. Will the Prime Minister do better? Is he open to turn around in research, and in fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e227	First to the discussion of the number of persons employed. It is true that when the financial crisis hit the world economy, including the Norwegian economy, there was a decline in the number of persons employed in private enterprises. Now let's see another growth. There is no doubt, then, that there are many more private businesses that start, are entrepreneurs and that succeed in creating private, profitable businesses in Norway – under this government as under the previous one. I'm not saying that it's just because we have such an excellent government, I'm just saying that it's funny to hear representatives of the previous government say that we have a corporate hostile policy – when we have a growth in private employment that is about. seven times as strong as it was under the previous one. That's my only point in terms of numbers. In the case of taxes, it's true that we have made changes in the tax system. The total tax burden has continued, but we have made conversions that have made the tax system fairer. It's just in the period we've had a formidable growth. There are many countries in Europe that do not have taxes on wealth, but they have two or three times as high unemployment as we do. So it's not like removing the property tax, it's going to be less unemployment and more value creation. Norway is proof that it is entirely possible to have high value creation and property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e236	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e239	I think many of the countries to which the Prime Minister refers would say that had a hat oil, had a higher value creation. Here, there's a significant difference. This question is raised because neither does the opposition believe that we can live on oil alone in the future, but we are concerned because we see some statistics that the Prime Minister does not refer to. Before the government took over, there was an average growth in GDP at real prices of 42 billion. kr per year. After it took over, there's been a growth of 16 billion. kr per year. The productivity growth was 2.2 pst. Annually until it took over — and has been at minus 1.44 pst. after it took over. It's not just useful to boast that more people work, when they're obviously less productive than they were before. We are concerned about the power-processing industry, the competitive industry. In view of all the challenges we have, in the light of the opportunities we have with our entire oil wealth, will the government present an industry message, so that we can discuss this in a slightly wider perspective and with a little longer speaking time?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e248	The main goal of success in economic policy is whether we succeed in having people at work, having low unemployment. We have the highest employment ever, and we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We also have good growth, both in the total economy and in the mainland economy. I am in all my speeches and lectures concerned with stressing that it does not mean that the sky is discrete. The fact that things have gone well in recent years is not a guarantee that things will go well in the next few years. It's true that the oil has been important, but there's two things to say about it. One is that the oil – as the representative himself stresses – is not a guarantee that things will go well in the future. The second is that the oil doesn't come entirely by itself. A few years ago, I stood in this hall and was criticized for this government not being able to facilitate oil and gas operations. Now we've done it, and then it's almost like we're not going to count on our success in the oil and gas industries, which are an important industry, and which depend on good policy frameworks. If we are to present our own industry message, the government has not discussed it. In this case, it is not an industrial notification, it is in the case of a business report, because the industry of the future is much more than just industry, it is travel and much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e257	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e260	In order for Norwegian industry to be competitive in the international market, research and development are crucial. Since 2001, research and development towards industry has been a major effort, but now it has stopped. There has been no real growth in the research programme in the last two years. I do not understand the Prime Minister's statement that research and development is a field of concern for this government. There are queues of good, qualified applications for several of the nutrition programs in the Research Council, but the money is missing. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister aware that the industry is being harmed by the government's lack of commitment to research?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e265	Firstly, we have stepped up research efforts. That's 30 pst. more — higher, larger — research appropriations now than in 2005, and much has also been spent on business research. Secondly, when we talk about publicly funded research, we often talk about research that takes many years, which gives results far ahead of time. That's good, because we have to think forward in time. But it is not that research appropriations have to be thought of in recent years that can explain the problems that the industry is facing today. It's about things near our time, about, for example, the financial crisis. It is clear that the financial crisis also affects Norwegian industry, it is clear that when we sell half of what we do here in the country, to other countries and things go badly in those countries, it also affects Norwegian businesses. What is important is that when some businesses have to be closed down, for example. because they lose markets because they go badly there, new businesses are being replaced. That's what we've been given, since the unemployment rate is still low.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e274	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e277	I want to ask the Prime Minister a question of an important principle. For 34 years, we have had a well-established practice that has certain rights of reservation in matters of conscience. Now it's about referring to abortion for firmness. Abortion is a controversial issue across the world, but I think all of us are certain that it is also characterised as a matter of conscience, and it is too many people. In the 1970s, we had a strong debate on this matter in Norway, a matter that split the people, but one that agreed that one established a practice of securing the right of reservation for professionals that was the framework of this. We are also some of them – of course – that patients have to get an adequate supply, regardless of the booking scheme they have. But we also want to have a society that is open, which is voice, which is tolerant. There are values that the Prime Minister has highlighted in a forward direction in the last year. So now we have a system that guarantees the right to have a job in line with the over-interpretation. Patients' dishes are taken care of. Then it is with a little wonder that we see that the government has sent out a circular that makes it impossible to continue this practice. My question to the Prime Minister is: So now we have a regulation that's out for consultation. Here you can facilitate, through that regulation, the continuation of a very good practice. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e290	Firstly, I agree that this is an important question. It's about principles, and it's about some difficult dilemmas and balances. Then I'm always busy listening and trying to find solutions. On the one hand, it is a matter of respecting the fact that different doctors may have different private views and assessments, such as: in the case of abortion and contraception. On the other hand, it is about ensuring a good offer for all patients and that there should be no arbitrary discrimination between different people depending on the firmness they have. There have been some questions about how the legislation is to be understood. Therefore, the Ministry of Health has found it appropriate to clarify what the Ministry of Health considers to be the law in force, namely that decision-makers have not had access to since the introduction of the fixed reform in 2001, for approx. 10 years ago, to reserve the right to refer – we are talking about referring a patient to a hospital for example. to have an abortion operation or to print out the pill/prevention. It is assessed that there has not been such access in the past. There is also no such access today, and it is made clear in that regulation. Here you have a dilemma between patients' needs and the doctor's private vision. Examples have been identified, including: in smaller places, that there has been a problem that decision-makers have refused to print pills for young girls. Our assessment is that this is a confirmation of the current law, not a change in the current law in relation to the responsibility of the decision-makers, and a clarification of the responsibility they have to let patients' needs go first and be what determines this difficult dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e301	I thank you for the answer, but I probably had bigger expectations. I applied for “Jens Stoltenberg” and “diversity” and got 598,000 hits. That might not be an error every time. When the government says that the answer for Lager is to find a new job, I thought it was a crossroads of established practice that has been here. That this practice has been here, there is no doubt about it, because that must be the basis for the government to choose to go out and say something else in its circular. So that practice has been that a long time has been possible to make reservations, is quite clear. I think this is a question: do we really want the league to have the same meaning on this question? And should we say that those determined who disagree on this question should not be fixed any longer, when we know that the system works so well?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e309	I want diversity. I respect that this is a dilemma. Sometimes in life and in politics, different considerations have to be selected, and we have been concerned that patients' needs and patients' rights have to weigh more heavily when we weigh it against doctors' private opinions and attitudes to the use of pills. We don't think that this is something new. Our professional assessment is that this has been the legislation, but it has not been practiced according to the legislation everywhere. When we then get questions and there is confusion about what is the correct interpretation of the law, almost the government has to make it clear, and that is what has now happened. Our assessment is that it was previously not possible for a permanent practitioner, for example. in a little place where there's only one regular, to say to a young girl who wants pills: no, I don't want to print out pills for you. It's simply important that patients' rights come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e316	It will be a follow-up question – from the representative of Laila Davøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e319	It is true that no rules have been laid down, but there has been a practice in understanding between the Health Directorate, the Medical Board and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. There have been a few cases that you think have not been handled well enough, which means that you have gone to the step of making circulars and guidelines. That is the reality. And it's about referrals, among other things. for abortion. Article 18 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights acts, inter alia: the right to refuse to act against their ethical or religious convictions. This right is also enshrined in two resolutions adopted by the Council of Europe in 2010 and 2011. In these documents, the basic tone is a great respect for the conscience of health professionals. Is it not the concern of the Prime Minister that the government is putting up with a practice that violates both the Council of Europe's recommendation and human rights? Then I would like to clarify before the Prime Minister answers: patients should have their rights implemented under Norwegian law. We all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e328	Let me just underline again: I understand that this is a dilemma. I understand that this can be a difficult choice, and of course I also accept that some doctors are so strong opponents of contraception that they won't print the pill. I accept that they mean – that is their position and their position. The dilemma of politicians is whether we should accept that when, for example. in a place where there is one regular who you have a trusting relationship with, comes and asks for prevention, and the doctor says, "You don't get that from me." Then there may be a problem for that patient. Then the situation is that the prescription, which has been there for many years, does not allow doctors, access, to reserve themselves against, for example. to print out the pill. Our assessment is that we are not now introducing a new regulation, but that we are just interpreting and clarifying what has been the regulation back to 2002 – I guess that's when it came. This has been a dilemma all along, and it has not been previously available under the regulations to reserve itself against prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e335	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e338	Two days ago, the Statistical Central Agency presented the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway in 2010. This shows that we've released 50.9 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2010. That's 4.7 pst. higher than the previous year. The Prime Minister has often boasted that in Norway we are able to cut economic growth free from the growth of CO2. It is right from 1990 to 2010, but in 2010 the growth of climate emissions has been even greater than the growth of production. Industrial emissions have increased by a total of 6 pst. That's not good enough. Norway really needs a climate policy. We need to bring down the emissions. We need a message where we can jointly agree on what action to take to address the whole climate challenge. In the election campaign, the Environment Minister promised me in a debate in Dagsnytt 18 that the climate announcement would come by February at the latest. Now we're talking about June 2012. The state budget states that it will come in 2012. So my question to the Prime Minister is really quite simple: can the Prime Minister now promise me that this message will come in June 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e355	That notification was notified in June 2012, and we do not intend to notify any other time. But I never guarantee, and that is why I do not guarantee that time either. That is what has been announced The Stortinget in its own document on matters to be promoted for the Stortinget. But then to the matter itself: in Norway and fortunately also in a good number of other countries there is a fantastic technological development that makes that while before you experienced that if there were 2 pst. growth in the national product was usually at least 2 pst. greenhouse gas emissions. That's the relationship we've solved to break. Since 1990, the value creation in Norway has grown, I think, 60-70 pst. We produce about 60-70 pst. more goods and services than we did in 1990, while emissions have been quite stable. It's gone a little bit down a few years and a little bit up second years, but it's above 50 million. tonnes, where it has been largely in all years since 1990. While we have had a strong growth in production, we have had a stable trend in emissions. Thus, the relationship between emissions and growth is broken. Now what we have to do is break it down even more, so that we can have growth, but still reduce emissions. That is the objective of the climate agreement, and that is the aim of the measures we are taking. I'm sure we'll get there too, because we've come a long way already. Then it's important to realize that it's not like we're waiting for the climate announcement to implement climate action. The climate agreement was an agreement on both objectives and instruments. Railway investments have increased by around 70 pst. Green certificates, which will promote the strong production of renewable energy, came on 1 January this year. The taxes on cars have been changed, so that we have had a significant reduction in emissions from new cars, and we have adopted new building regulations that have greatly reduced energy use in new buildings, and the base tax on fuel oil has increased. So overall, many measures have been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e366	Some of the problem is that the figures work against the Prime Minister's arguments. Today we show that we do not meet the targets for car emissions, we also show that 2010 is a step in the wrong direction in terms of the relationship between production and emissions. Today’s Evening Post refers to a study that says that climate change is less and less important to young people. I think I know why. This is because Norwegian politicians are high in rhetoric, but small in instruments. There's a lot of talk about how important this is, but today's young people get very few answers. We tell young people that this is very important, but that we can just buy ourselves away from it -- we can probably get away from it, so it's not that important. My question to the Prime Minister is: does not the Prime Minister share my great concern that if we are to cope with this great change, we must have youth on our side, we must have Norwegian citizens on our side? They have to realize that it's important, and they have to realize that it's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e375	Yes, I fully agree with that. Therefore, it is important that we implement measures at home, which are close to people. What we're doing, for example. in case of increased pollution charges, what we do by setting new requirements in building regulations for environmentally friendly buildings, or what we do with 70 pst. Increases in railway investment are things that are close to people, and of which we need more. In addition, we need a strong deployment of renewable energy. I strongly warn against mentioning what we're doing out there, like just buying ourselves free, if there's anything negative charged in it. What we do to stop the deforestation of rainforests is perhaps the most important contribution to getting big cuts and to bringing emerging economies, countries like Indonesia and Brazil, into an agreement. The work to stop deforestation is one of the most important things we do, and one should not speak negatively about it. Taking part in the EU ETS is the most powerful instrument both Norway and the EU have implemented to reduce emissions. It contributes to reductions of millions of tonnes. It's a market-based tool that I think is very good both for technology and cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e382	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e385	As the NRC reported earlier today, greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic are too high compared to the agreement in the climate agreement. Road GHG emissions have increased by 30 pst. from 1990 to 2010. The left has today proposed keeping a free roof on zero-emission cars unchanged until there are 100 000 electric and hydrogen cars in Norway. This is the same as the Social Democratic Government in Denmark has proposed, as the Prime Minister is well aware. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister do as his social-democratic friends in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e395	I do not know the details of the proposal from the Left, nor the details of what has been done in Denmark, but I am in favour of having a charging system that promotes environmentally friendly cars. That is why we have also increased heavy charges on cars that emit a lot of CO2. So the price difference in terms of cars that are environmentally friendly has increased. That is good, and this has led to new cars now releasing almost 25 pst. less CO2 than they did before. It's good progress, even if it's not good enough. I'm also a fan of that, for example. continue to have zero taxes on electric cars and promote them. Where there has been some discussion, there has been about biofuels. Some of the discussion concerns whether there are zero emissions related to biofuels. I suppose the Climate Directorate has also said that you can count on 35 pst. reduction of emissions. At least that is the requirement established in the EU. It's not zero, but it's better than gasoline.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e408	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e411	The world has changed dramatically since the adoption of the climate agreement in Stortinget, where the Progress Party did not participate, fortunately, not least the economic situation. It has not been possible to agree on an international agreement that binds the large emitters. It may not be entirely coincidental that representatives of the Prime Minister's own party have particularly warned against two thirds of the domestic population, which is in the climate agreement. That's probably why we've still had a postponement of the climate communication, which is quite understandable. This is precisely because two thirds of Norwegian emissions will put Norwegian industry, in particular Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs at risk. Therefore, Stortingen has to deal with this again. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative for a new climate settlement in Stortinget, where Norwegian industry interests and Norwegian jobs are just put into the fore?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e420	I believe it is fully possible to combine an active climate policy that develops new technologies and develops environmentally friendly jobs, and to ensure Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian value creation. I believe this government over recent years has shown that this is possible. We have implemented significant measures to contribute to reducing emissions, more environmentally friendly technologies and at the same time have had a good growth in Norwegian business. When the announcement comes to Stortinget, it is up to Stortingen to deal with it, and then I believe the Stortinget must discuss how it should be handled here. I think we first have to finish the message, and then we'll have to discuss in Stortinget how that message is to be handled here. But it is fully possible to ensure both work and the environment. We have to secure both of them, because if we set it up against each other, I'm sure the environment is going to lose in length. Otherwise, I largely share the concern that we do not have an international climate agreement. The Kyoto Agreement included 50 pst. of world emissions. What we now agreed on in Durban was to renegotiate an agreement involving 15 pst. of world emissions. We must have more countries on the agreement if we are to have effective reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e429	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e432	State councillor Erik Solheim said in August that he would not sleep until the climate announcement was presented. So not least for the sake of his forced insomnia, the government should deliver a message to the Stortinget as soon as possible. It is important that climate policy is as broadly anchored as possible in the Stortinget and that it points not only beyond this government but also beyond 2020 and towards a low-carbon society in 2050. I hope the Prime Minister agrees with me on that. The question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether the government should not come to the Grand Duchy now, before the climate communication has been presented, and ensure that the key principles of a new climate communication are anchored in a broadest possible political majority here in the Grand Duchy, in a new climate settlement, so that we are sure that this policy is above changing governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e441	I am a little uncertain about what I was asked about now. But if the question was whether we want to have contact with Stortinget and the settlement partners before we submit the message, I believe the answer to that should be yes. It is natural when you have a settlement, to discuss it with the settlement partners before submitting a case. So my experience when we have had this kind of deal, that the opposition on Stortinget did not want to negotiate a deal until the matter was brought before us, but they wanted this kind of discussion to take place in Stortinget after the matter was brought before us. But that's what you can discuss when you have contact with the settlement partners at Stortinget. The kind of contact is often made by the specialist councils. So I think you should have a relaxed relationship with and should have contact about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e448	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e451	I have to confess that in 2007 I was very excited for some speakers Prime Minister Stoltenberg held. In particular, I remember that new year when he promised the moon landing. I thought it was a great idea. And then I remember that he stopped in the middle of the speech to the National Labour Party meeting, and said he would use the rest of the speech on our main challenge, the climate issue. The Prime Minister could have said almost anything, and I had gone for action, because I believed in him. But I have to say that the enthusiasm has subsided. Emissions have now been shown to rise, and the climate agreement we had four years ago was in many ways a good plank, but has not been followed up with an obliging big business message with concrete measures. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he think it will be easier to resolve the matter the longer we wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e460	It is not that we are waiting to take action. There are and will be many measures taken. No later than 1 January, we got green certificates, which are a massive transfer of money to anyone who wants to expand hydropower and wind power. There is a strong commitment on the railways and many other measures. We do not wait for measures – point one. The second point is that the speech I gave at the National Labour Party meeting in 2007 was about the fundamental objectives of Norwegian climate policy. Then we said we would have 10 pst. over-fulfilling the Kyoto Agreement. We have. We formulated 30 pst. reduction of Norwegian emissions, i.e. in relation to global emissions. We're going to do that, as we've set ourselves as a goal. And we formulated the goal of climate neutrality, that we should implement the cut equal to 100 pst. of Norwegian emissions. It's going to be implemented, given that we have an international contract work. So the big visions of 10 pst., 30 pst. and 100 pst. we are fully on track to fulfill. And given that there are international agreements that make it possible to become climate neutral, Norway will.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e469	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e473	A small children's family in Oslo bought land for house construction. It turned out that they had been tricked and could not build a normal house on the plot. The case was brought before the Court of First Instance in 2010. The couple were fully involved in the matter against the seller and real estate agents. However, the defendants appealed, and the appeal proceedings were not closed until 2013, i.e. almost three years after first instance proceedings. In the meantime, the family has to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars and live in awkward conditions. Of course, they do not have funds available, as these are locked in the purchase. Two widows after former employees at the Rosenborg Clinic in the 1970s were admitted to the district court after their spouses. After five years of fighting against the state, they finally won with their demands and were awarded 1 million. NOK i in compensation. One hour before the appeal period appealed to the State. Because of the trial period in the Lawyers' Court, the widows had to wait an entire year before the case was closed. These are two examples. There are hundreds of examples, because the courts are now increasing the length of proceedings and the queues are increasing in our courts. It is stated that it takes an average of one-and-a-half years to get an appeal to the Lawyers' Court. Citizenship, the largest law-enforcement court, has a one-year procedure for production. My question to the Prime Minister is: hundreds of people lose homes, homes, association with their own children and fundamental rights due to queues in the courts. What does the Prime Minister think this does with the confidence of the Norwegian court, the judicial system and Norwegian courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e484	When people have to wait unreasonablely long for a decision in the Norwegian judicial system, it weakens the confidence of the Norwegian judicial system. It's so good that attention is being drawn around it, because one of the most basic states is responsible for, is that we have a legal system that works, that we have police, prosecution authorities and courts that work. I'm worried when I see that there are too many examples that people have to wait too long for basic public services, whether they're in the healthcare system, or it's in the legal system. I do not know the concrete examples that the representative is now drawing up, but it only underlines the need to increase the resource effort of the courts, to organise them better and to find a solution that will give us a more effective procedure in Norwegian courts. One contribution to more cases is that we have arrested many more people. The fight against crime also means that we need to expand the prison capacity and capacity of the Norwegian judicial system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e495	I hear the Prime Minister say that one of the measures is to increase the resources of the courts. Then I find it strange that this government already this year cuts 7.5 million. kr to the courts and indicates that a further 32.5 million will be cut in 2013. kr. You're going to take in the $40 million. In 2010, through a cross-political pressure from the opposition in Stortinget, the courts were given a revised budget and budget in 2010. It can be seen that the situation in the courts is now actually worse than before 2010, when the courts are doing their best and, through increased appropriations from the Stortinget, they are able to take over and reduce the length of proceedings. And yet the government is now doing the opposite, cutting 7.5 million. this year, and shall cut another 32.5 million. kr in 2013. Can the Prime Minister now calm down the courts and say that the 7.5 million. Now cut, come back in revised form, and that more cuts in 2013 are out of date?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e504	Firstly, I think it is gratifying that the representative refers to the fact that additional appropriations were given through agreement in Stortinget that helped to do something about the leftovers. I don't know the numbers in detail there, but it's good that he refers to it as an expression that it's actually possible to get to something, get to decrease the remainder, i.e. People waiting. As for what's going on in the revision, and, even more, what's going on in the state budget for 2013, I think it's completely wrong that I'm now starting to say something about it. It comes when we present the budget, and then we see how much extra we get in terms of bets on the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e511	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e514	The Prime Minister says in relation to the description that Sandberg made here, that he is concerned, and that is the case resolution. But, as the Prime Minister is probably aware, the ICT situation in the courts is very critical. It takes a significant boost, perhaps in the hundreds of millions class, to get it in place. The majority adopted a new penal code in 2009 which has not yet entered into force due to the systems. We will probably soon receive a law on land change from the government that cannot come into force for many years because of the ICT situation. Several storehouses need a significant upgrade, in Bergen and Stavanger etc. So now we feel that the government is cutting budgets. What are the visions of the Prime Minister for the development of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e523	The fact that we set up our own court administration has contributed to the fact that we have received even better governance from the entire court administration in Norway. I think it was a proper grip. It has also contributed to more and better coordination, and I believe that we have also seen results of efforts in many areas. My vision is that we should have courts that ensure legal certainty, which ensure a good and sound but also effective procedure in the courts, and that they can be important instruments in the fight against crime, that we do not feel that we need to wait a long time to get matters settled. Then we'll follow this up in the different budgets. How much comes into the 2013 budget is simply waiting for the 2013 budget to receive answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e532	André Oktay Dahl — for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e535	Sandberg's question is that the government has announced a cut of 32.5 million. kr. It is also in the budgetary remarks for this year's budget. So I recommend the Prime Minister to talk to the Minister of Justice about the letters sent from the Court of Justice on 16 November last year and on 11 January this year – before a meeting in March. The core of the question to the representative Sandberg is that we constantly see that there are imbalances in the criminal action chain. It goes in one direction or another; one year it's the court, the other year it's the criminal code – and then it's the police. After six years in the Justice Committee, my experience is that you sit on each side, plan separately and have no overall approach to the challenges across the justice sector. So my question is, what does the government have on the steps of concrete proposals for analytical tools that can ensure that we get a lasting balance in the criminal justice chain, so that every year we don't have to cover up to where it goes, and have to come up with adhoc solutions – as the court administration has now received, by getting 40 million. kr, which was assumed to be temporary by the government, but which does not feel particularly temporary for those affected by it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e546	I don't know about the letters that went from the Court of Justice on 16 November last year, and I also understood one this winter, but I'm absolutely sure the Minister of Justice is going to be committed to strengthening the entire criminal chain, the judiciary and the courts, when the government meets at the budget conference in March. Then I'm absolutely sure she's going to argue well because we need more money to her area. My challenge is that it will be done by all the other state councils, and the sum will be irresponsible money use. Then, through a demanding process – as we do every year; it starts in March and ends in August to September – where we reconcile the different concerns about the need for more money on the road, for health, for defence, for preparedness and for many other good purposes, and then find a reasonable balance where we also take into account the needs of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e551	Kjell Ingolf Roupstad — to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e555	As the representative, Octay Dahl, said, many aspects of the criminal procedure are challenging, and the fact that there will be queues in the courts can lead to many problems. It might be a little bit sideways, but I think this is an important moment to touch, because today there was a new number in the case of reported rapes, and how many came to the courts. I think this deserves a broader debate, because it is so important that when one goes to the point of reporting a rape, one must also experience that it is taken seriously all the way, and that as much as possible comes to the court. According to the figures from P4 today, 1,027 rapes were reported – an increase of 16.5 pst. - while it was 120 who came to the courts. There may be a lot of reasons for this, but one of the important policy objectives must at least be that several ends of notification and several ends of judgment. So I want to challenge the Prime Minister about the visions about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e564	I agree that it is very important that we do even more to combat rape. It's about police, it's about presence, it's about effective investigation, and it's also about facilitating people to report. An important purpose of the rape recipients – with some of the devices we have built up – is just to make it easier for women to report. It's also important that we have proof that we can actually get people convicted. Often, the burden of proof in rape cases is difficult. The DNA reform and increased use of DNA as an investigation method — DNA tracks — are an important contribution to increasing the number of convictions in rape cases. So here I feel that we have a good dialogue with parties and professional authorities about how we can do more to combat rape. In addition, we all have a responsibility to take care of each other and to do what we can to combat rape, whether it happens out in public space, or where all, most of the rapes happen — at home with the victim.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e569	So the oral question procedure is over, and we are going to go to case No. 2, the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e581	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Borghild Tende to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e596	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘For Värmland County, which is bordering Hedmark, border trade means a lot. Norwegian customers thus secure 2000 Swedish jobs. These are jobs that could have been largely on the other side of the frontier, i.e. in Norway. Sees the Council of State that something should be done with, among other things, the Norwegian level of taxation, in order to make it more attractive to act in Norway, thereby ensuring Norwegian jobs and its other positive ring-effects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e610	According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, which has conducted a border trade survey, the Nordics acted for about 8 billion. kr for day trips abroad during the first three quarters of 2011. The survey also shows that the share of border trade in total household consumption has been around 1 pst. in the last seven years. The cross-border trade survey is a sample survey, and the Statistical Centre states that there is considerable uncertainty about the figures. Border trade between Norway and Sweden is primarily influenced by price differences and by different product ranges. In addition to providing revenue to the country, the charges on typical border products, such as: alcohol and tobacco, contribute to the reduction of the consumption of products harmful to health. At the same time, the level of charges should not be so high that negative and unintended effects on illicit consumption and cross-border trade become too high. Excise duties are important for border trade, but other factors are also of great importance. A significant part of the border trade takes place with goods which are subject to excise duties to a small extent, e.g.: meat products and other groceries. For many of these, the protection of imports of agricultural products in Norway is of major importance to the difference in prices. In addition, the level of costs in Norway is consistently higher than in Sweden. This is primarily due to a high Norwegian salary level. Then we also know that the exchange rate, and changes in the exchange rate, can give rise to price differences in the short term and contribute in a positive or negative direction to the border trade. It is also important to stress that cross-border trade – including border trade – is also positive, because it contributes to increased competition and efficiency, which is an advantage for consumers and others through lower prices and a better range of products.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e621	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not really an answer to the question. That was a conclusion on what is going on, and we agree with that – that it is a border trade. But for my part, I think that border trade goes one way, from Norway to Sweden. We also have the choice of products in Sweden in Norway. That's just as good in e.g. Kingwings like on Eda. So it's not that people travel to buy a special product because it's not in Norway, but it has to do with the fact that it's a lot cheaper in Sweden. I believe that the purchase of e.g. tobacco, alcohol, snuff, wine and beer are the result of a lower level of taxation in Sweden than in Norway. That's why you buy these goods, and then you obviously buy some other goods when you first get there. There are at least 2 000 jobs due to the Nordics travelling to Sweden and acting. As I said, some of these we could have had on the Norwegian side. So that's what I'm really asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e628	As I said in my main response, the border trade beats a little bit both ways. I remember pictures from the 1950s of long queues that stood across the border on the Swedish side to go to Magnor to buy butter, so it beats a little bit both ways. However, with regard to the specific issue of charges and level of charges, there is something we need to get back to when we come to the State budget for 2013. As I said, the balance against border trade is part of the balance that we make when we determine the level of charges on that one can call typical border trade products, such as tobacco and alcohol. Otherwise, I think it's also an advantage that it's a good cross-border relationship between Norway and Sweden. I think that both countries benefit in different contexts. I think it's also important to get a labour market that works well on both sides of the border. That's why we're now working with frontier barriers to make sure that it's a good flow both ways. So border trade probably has both positive and negative effects from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e637	Thanks for the answer. It's probably true that the Swedes came to us in the 1950s and bought butter, but it's been a few years, so I don't think we're getting any ringing effects of it right now. In addition to this question, it is called IndustryNM. The Glamdal region is ranked at the back of the 83 regions we have in Norway. I think that this border trade has a lot to do with the bad results for the Glamdals region and some neighbouring municipalities, that they make it so bad. As I write in the last line of my question, it is about ensuring ‘workplaces and their other positive effects’. It is clear that when people travel to Sweden and act – and of course you have to do it, because it has to be floating across borders, and for many there are no boundaries really – and one store after another and one company after another on the Norwegian side shuts down due to the fact that there is too much action just one way, this makes it negative for those who run on the Norwegian side, no matter what you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e646	It might have been interesting to have a discussion about nutrient development in the Glamdal region and other regions in our fine state, but we'll have to do that on another occasion. I think there are a lot of reasons why one in some areas is lagging behind in economic development in the Glamdal area, but in other areas they are very advanced. I believe that the Glamdal region has great potential and great opportunities. But there's a discussion we get to come back to, among other things. in the heath context – there will be many heathmarks both down on the floor and up in the president's place now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e655	It's okay for a scarf to break into the hedgehog. ‘In an interview with the News Agency’s own online newspaper Latte.no 8 February 2012, the Workers’ Party’s Torgeir Mikalsen gives the impression that the government will contribute to a moderate wage settlement. That is good and in line with the wishes of the Progress Party. However, in addition to arguing against tax relief, Mikalsen does not mention any concrete measures. In a difficult economic time, the competitiveness of business must be maintained. What measures does the government consider in its contribution to a moderate wage settlement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e664	We have a framework in and around economic policy that contributes to stability in the Norwegian economy. This is good for Norwegian business and for Norwegian economy. The rule of action, the State pension fund abroad, monetary policy and income policy are important pillars of this framework. If we look at how Norway is doing with other countries through the international financial crisis, we are doing better. There's several reasons for that. An important reason is sound economic policy over several years, in line with the framework. The situation in Europe is serious. Growth is low and unemployment is high. At the same time, there is a need to tighten public budgets to get public finances on a sustainable track. Weak growth prospects in our trading partners also affect us by reducing the demand for Norwegian exports. A high level of costs in Norway makes the competitive sector vulnerable in such a situation. The wage growth of our trading partners is likely to be low and moderate for a while to come. This limits paychecks in Norway. In the interests of competitiveness, it is important that we stick to what we call the front-stage model, where the results of the competitive sector will guide the other areas of negotiation. Wages and salaries are the responsibility of the parties. The government's responsibility is to underpin the stability of the Norwegian economy by pursuing sound budgetary policies, adapted to the economic situation. By following the rules of action, we contribute to predictability. This is important for the job we are going to do together, and to lay the basis for a responsible and good income statement for the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e679	Thank you, but I can't believe that he views it as an answer to the question, for adopting a government budget makes the Stortinget every year independent of whether or not a moderate wage bill is wanted. So it's not a measure; it's something big and government does anyway. Norway has a large room for action and has a surplus of 370 billion last year’s budget. kr. For the current year's budget, one assumes that it is 345 billion. kr. We're in a completely different situation than our friends in the south, who have a huge deficit and a huge debt. We have a lot of profits and a lot of wealth. This means that we have a space of action that is enormous, and which means that the state could also contribute to a more moderate wage settlement by, for example: gave tax relief to employees by increasing the deduction. This means that they get a real wage increase without it being the business that has to take it. It's just one of many suggestions. Does the government have any proposals besides the adoption of a government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e688	The most important thing the government does is to conduct a responsible economic policy. It is the most important contribution to stability in the Norwegian economy, to confidence in the Norwegian economy, to ensure that the differences in interest rates between Norway and the rest of the world are minimised, and to ensure that Norwegian businesses have a foreseeable future. Then it is true that in the 1970s income statements, more specifically in 1976 and 1977, a somewhat called combined paycheck tried by the government to provide tax relief to help bring down the great inflation that we had at the end of the 1970s. In retrospect, one sees that the experiences with it were mildly shared. I think it makes sense for government and growth to contribute to responsible income settlement through a good, responsible and predictable economic policy. And then it's the responsibility of the parties to determine the concrete pay supplements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e697	All parties on the Stortinget want to conduct a responsible economic policy. The difference between the government's government budget and the proposals of the Progress Party, the proposals of the Right, the proposals of the Christian People's Party, and the proposals of the Left are about a few billion dollars, i.e. a few million dollars in terms of GDP. If we spend a little more money on investing in infrastructure, so that people don't sit in line and get to work, the competitiveness of Norwegian business doesn't weaken. It strengthens it, because the engineers don't have to get paid to sit in line. They can sit in the office and develop products. What is the point of this round in the Question Time is the promise made by Torgeir Micaelsen, the head of the Finance Committee and the Labour Party's leading economic spokesman in the Stortinget, who says that it is important that we contribute to the State. Is there not, therefore, anything that the government intends to contribute to the adoption of a budget? Is that the contribution, that is, that budget has now been adopted, and nothing more than that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e704	Earlier today, I was given the OECD’s view of the Norwegian economy for 2011. One of the things they underlined in that report is the importance of having a predictable and reliable macro-economy and a good fiscal policy. I fully agree with that, and that is the primary responsibility of the government and the Storing. We are closely involved in what is happening in Europe. Clearly, if things happen that endanger Norwegian jobs, the government is ready to act on it. But the best contribution to a responsible income statement is financial policy. In this area, Mr Micasen and I are in complete agreement. That is what we do in our daily economic policy, which is important. The Progress Party has a slightly different approach, including: as regards the use of oil money and the relationship to the rule of action, which I believe will contribute in a negative direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e711	You should read SSB reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e716	The size should now have gone further to question No. 3, but the President cannot see that the Minister for Transport is in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e741	These questions are put to the vote. So we go to question No. 6, and the President records that both the questioner and the Council of State are present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e750	Then I ask the Minister for Research and Higher Education the following questions: ‘The Government has announced the conversion of the financing model for specialised schools into the State budget for 2013. The National Board of Vocational Schools and the Council of County Vocational Schools have so far not been contacted in relation to such a conversion and have thus not been given the opportunity to make representations in the process. The time to achieve a good process in collaboration with the organisations is beginning to be scarce. How will the Council of State involve the organisations of vocational schools in the process of converting the funding model for vocational schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e759	For the treatment of the Municipal Proposition for 2012, see: Prop. 115 S for 2010–2011 and Innst. 429 S for 2010–2011, notes from the Municipal and Management Committee that an evaluation of the financing scheme for specialised schools was requested. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all parties, except the members of the Party of Advancement and the Right, refer to the Innst in their comments. S 16 for 2010-2011, cf. Prop 1 S for 2010–2011, where it says: ‘The majority will underline the importance of the vocational school as an important part of the education chain. The majority indicates that responsibility for the financing was transferred to the county from 1 January 2010. The majority believe that the government must gain experience from today’s funding organisation and propose corrections to any weaknesses, in order to ensure predictable and sound funding of the various lines of the vocational school.’ The majority ask the government to come back with such an assessment of the further funding of the specialised schools in the municipal proposition for 2013. I would like to stress that the municipal proposal calls for an assessment of any improvements to the funding scheme for specialised schools, rather than an evaluation. An evaluation will be broader and more comprehensive than an evaluation of the financial instrument. In order to address any weaknesses, an assessment of the impact of the current financial instrument must first be made. It is this assessment that the government is now doing, and that we will present to Stortinget in the municipal proposition for 2013. Of course, if the government comes to the conclusion that it might be appropriate to consider changing the funding system, both the National Board of Vocational Education and other relevant actors in the sector, such as the Council of County Colleges, will be involved in the further work. However, this will come back to the municipal bill for 2013 after making its assessment and identifying any need for improvements to the current funding system. Vocational schools are important as alternatives to higher education, and this government has paid great attention to the role of vocational schools in the educational landscape. I can mention here the establishment of the National Board of Colleges, the reporting of specialised schools to the new database of technical school statistics, the preparation of the State Report by the Ministry of Knowledge for the Vocational Schools and the ongoing work to include the vocational schools in the National Qualifications Framework. Work has also been started on a national candidate survey for post-secondary students. In this context, it is important to have a sound and predictable funding system that helps to ensure the maintenance of a solid vocational school offer in the country. I am very pleased with the work done by the Swedish School Council, and I think we have a good cooperation on matters relating to the vocational schools. It is important to connect to the Swedish School Council and any other actors when dealing with issues where we rely on professional and good input, but also to know how the vocational school sector will react to some issues. I can assure the representative Harberg that the government will not propose concrete changes to the financing system for vocational schools until we have also discussed the matter with the Fachskolerat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e775	It was a reassuring conclusion – even though I registered earlier in the post that the Council of State said they would consider seeing if they would come up with amendments, and if they wanted to, they would join the Swedish School Council. I had hoped that the trade school council would be connected from the very beginning, in the thinking about this. I have to admit that the wording of the question is enough to take two steps at a time. It may be a combination of impatience from signed and signals – which the Council of State has also given us – that there are enough things we need to look at. That is why the question is put as if it were going to be converted, and that it will be included in the budget for 2013. To me, it is so important to reinforce the question – and the recommendation – of taking the vocational school council and the vocational school communities into the early stages of the process. Because we know that many people are now struggling with the uncertainty and have opinions about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e785	I can assure the representative that both I as the Council of State and the Department are in constant contact with the Swedish School Council. I have been to a lot of meetings and conferences with them and have no problems with the communication and listening to what the college council thinks. What this is about is a work done in connection with the administrative reform. I believe that both the representative and I will agree that the county authorities' responsibility for the vocational schools is important to support in all ways, both through the regional anchoring – the vocational school is an important part of the county council's responsibility for regional development – and the interest in the proper functioning of the vocational schools. Then – in any budget – we will look at the economy of the county councils and what might have to be the direct coin in the vocational schools. But here we have good communication and good processes, and I hope that the vocational schools can also help us get a good and varied training offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e794	Then the Council of State has assured me and promised that the organisations will be well cared for in the further work. I hope it happens as soon as possible. After contacting them, I understood that exactly this question was not yet involved in it. Then the Council of State referred to a note that the Right and the Advance Party were not in. This is because we have proposed that the financing itself be returned to the state. Can the Council of State promise that one not only looks at adjustments and current financing arrangements, but also assesses whether it will make it easier and more predictable for all sections of vocational schools in Norway – both public and private – to take the funding back to the State, as the other higher education has?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e801	I hope that the parties who were not in the majority opinion and who see the importance of the strengthening of the vocational schools also support the funding base that is now. It is clear that all elements are assessed at all times in these financings, but it is exceptionally important to support them under the responsibility of the county councils. From an economic point of view, I know very well that the Swedish School Council had wanted more money, but I don't think it's so crucial for them whether it's the state or the county council that's responsible for that money. The most important thing is that you get a good financial basis for running the colleges. We're all interested in that. I hope we can get a broad response both to the need for good funding, to the fact that we have a good basis for funding it, and to the fact that we have conscious owners and managers of the colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e808	So we're done with question number. 6th@item: inlistbox Since state councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has now arrived Stortinget, we go back to question No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e815	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Riksväg 25 in Hedmark County is the road with most elk driving in Norway. Most other roads in Hedmark also have very many accidents of this kind. What will the Council of State contribute to reducing the number of accidents both in Hedmark and elsewhere in the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e824	For the last ten years, some 1,300–1,400 elk have been killed in traffic every year. This is a number that has remained relatively stable. One third of all moose runs in Hedmark. The number of moose that are shot in Hedmark is approx. 8 000 of them in the municipalities of Trysil, Åmot, Elverum and Stor-Elvdal. Elgamma is very big in Hedmark. That's part of the explanation for the high number of moose being killed in traffic. Inductions lead to both suffering and death for the animals and material damage to motor vehicles. A few times are intertwined between running gear and moose so strongly that it leads to serious injury and death. The state road system is therefore systematically working throughout the country to reduce the number of elf runs. A large part of the road network passes through areas with a lot of moose, and it is not practicable to avoid all of the elf runs. On the most postponed routes, special measures have been taken to avoid such runs in addition to the normal separation of hazards for elk. Along new road sections, game fences are set up to prevent the moose from entering the roadway, and over- and underpasses are built so that the elk can cross the road. The state road authority has carried out an evaluation of the specific measures implemented to reduce the number of elf runs. The removal of wood vegetation along the road has proved to be the most effective measure. This increases the visibility along the road, so that drivers of running gear will discover the elk earlier. The driver will then have more time to slow down, and this will reduce the risk of ingress. The State Road Service is now implementing such measures along several road sections as a concrete follow-up to the national road safety plan. In the area south of Hedmark, where there are many runs, there are permitted winter hunting on elk, with quotas of up to 100 animals. This, together with winter feeding in the same areas, helps reduce the number of animals that live near the road, especially elk that attracts from other areas in winter time. Through ongoing work at different venues, we will increase our knowledge of what measures can reduce the number of hallucinations in traffic. There are no simple solutions in the short term, and the possibilities for achieving good results require good cooperation between several actors, based on well-documented knowledge. However, I would like to stress that the individual road user must also contribute, for example: by slowing down a lot of wild space.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e839	I thank the Council of State for an informative and good response, and she also refers to some measures that have been taken. There was a big article in VG on February 3, 2012, on two pages, that took note of this, and there is no doubt that Hedmark is the county that has the most damage and damage, and that many road sections in Hedmark are the hardest hit in this area. That's about. 3000 moose that are hit by cars a year. This is 3000 accidents too, because there is rarely more than one elk involved in an accident at a time, unlike for example. where pure is involved. So this is 3,000 accidents with serious consequences. I hear the council mentions some things, but there's one thing she doesn't mention, and it's good winter maintenance on the way. If the maintenance on the roads had been better than it is in some places, I think it would have been easier to stop when you see an elk coming out – so I want the council to respond to this a little bit about winter maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e848	First, a correction: there are 3,000 moose shot in three of the municipalities in Hedmark – but the number of people killed in traffic is between 1300 and 1400. It's a little lower, but of course it's too high. Winter maintenance has an inexorable focus on. We've strengthened the overall maintenance. We have received increased attention with regard to breakage, road closure faster than before and boards and warnings of a different kind so that road users are constantly informed about where there are winter conditions. When it comes to animal husbandry, it is clear that road maintenance also means a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e855	I thank the Council of State for the answer once again. The 3,000 that are hit are 3,000 accidents — not how many are shot, but 3000 moose that are hit by cars in Norway on different roads, and many of the roads are in Hedmark. But not all elves die during the drive, it gets damage both on the material and on the animals, and thus we get animal diseases. Otherwise, I think the Council of State and the undersigned have a common understanding of the problem and want it to be resolved. There are different ways to solve it, and the Council of State has mentioned something. I personally believe that e.g. feeding grounds are a good thing, so that the elk has a place where he can get food, which is not near the trafficked road. I also think cantrusion is important. I think good winter maintenance is very important. I think it's good with a follow-up with game subjects, that's a collaboration there. I think lower speed limits in periods of some distances can be right. I think that better signage can be right. I think that information is also important, and of course also a number of other things, and I want this to be addressed by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e864	I thank you for your advice. This is a matter that is particularly noteworthy in the state road system in the affected states, and some of the measures that Bredvold here mentions, so we are doing well. Then, fortunately, there is a small proportion of the moose spills that result in serious injuries, in the worst case deaths. But there are statistically one to two people who die after game starts, there are at the base of 100 people who suffer more or less damage, and the socio-economic cost is estimated to be slightly more than 600 million. kr annually. So this is clearly an important area to which it is important to bring action in relation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e871	We're going to go to question seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e878	My question is to the Minister of Labour, and says this: ‘The tightening of the legislation on perms results in permanent employees being cancelled by plant companies and, instead, in the offer of temporary employment, since the application for daily allowance is not now accepted for leave because of a lack of mandate. This turns out to be a major challenge in terms of employment, recruitment, business skills, the use of foreign labour, etc. Does the Council of State see that the change has had unintended effects and will the Council of State adjust the legislation to make it better?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e887	In order to be entitled to a daily allowance during the period of leave, it is provided that the period of leave is due to a lack of work or other conditions on which the employer cannot exercise influence. It is assumed that the employer has not had the opportunity to organise the work so as to avoid a permit. The background to this requirement is that employers should not automatically be able to turn compensation of employees into social security by permitting. Day payments under leave are primarily intended as a safety net in the event that the employer can expect to see to a small extent. It is not intended that businesses which generally have work only part of the year should be able to base their operations on the fact that employees may receive daily benefits under leave when the business is not employed. Usual seasonal variations must be regarded as predictable and, as a general rule, leavencies do not give entitlement to daily allowances. On the other hand, for example: abnormally severe periods of cold which render work impossible provide the basis for daily allowances. What is abnormal varies geographically and needs to be assessed in concrete terms. In the winter of 2011-2012, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare clarified the applicable rules for the assessment of seasonal variation permits. The aim was to avoid discrimination in the practice of the establishment. It has been pointed out to me that clarification has been perceived as a tightening-up, at least in cases where previous practices were not in accordance with the legislation. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has already indicated that they will follow-up on individual issues with a view to ensuring a level playing field, such as: within a group of several offices around the country. In addition, I would like to ask the Directorate for a wider review of practices in permitting cases to ensure greater predictability of individual activities and equal treatment in similar cases. The Ministry will follow this in dialogue with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e898	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. I am very happy that you are willing to go into the matter, as you suggest. What I think is important in such a case is that the industries that are often referred to as seasonal work are not necessarily. Plant gardeners are one of those who aren't. They do a lot of work in the winter and make great adjustments to try to make the best use of fixed costs, for example: trucks or other equipment in which they have invested. What I did before I asked the question was to investigate among the companies. Of the 18 companies in the industry that responded, there were eight companies that said they had a discount on the daily allowance, and ten that said they didn't get it. I share the description with the Council of State, but I have a concern that even if you go into it, one will still put this industry in the same category as for example. the asphalt industry, which is a completely different type of industry. Is the Council of State concerned with the same issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e909	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e912	I assume that the representative and I agree on the starting point – that Nav has to make an individual assessment. I think we agree on that. So Nav has been busy ensuring non-discrimination, and that's what was perceived as an intensification. Now I'm very concerned that we have to be sure that it's equal treatment we've actually received, and that equal cases are treated equally. It's always a challenge, because it's always a challenge to know what are similar cases. That means that even if we do a very thorough review, there will be cases that may appear to be the same, which are still different. But I think we can agree that we get a proper and good review – I'll get it during March. Then I have shown by what I have done in the past, and so far also in dialogue with the representative that I think has raised an important question, that we are just concerned about companies and businesses that are seasonally based. We have to look at it in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e919	I would like to thank you for your answer – very well. I am very pleased that the Council of State reports that we can get a review as soon as possible during March. I think the industry is also very concerned about that. One sees that the challenge is that where they have realized that there has been one practice and now it has changed, the employees have gone without a daily allowance and have thus been put into a difficult situation. The same thing has happened to the companies. That is why I am very pleased with that review and welcome it. What I also want to challenge the Council of State is that much of the important thing about the law of permacy is just to ensure that competence remains in the industry, that one has the opportunity to do so. I don't want any use of the legislation, but I'm concerned that piece is there. I see that many people want to avoid the legislation through, for example. percentage contracts. It may be a solution, but I'm afraid it makes the profession less attractive. Will the Council of State also include that part of the problem in the review?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e928	We clearly agree that the permitting legislation should not be abused and that it should be used where it is intended to be used. Then I think we should be aware, given the situation in Europe, that we are facing ongoing challenges related to Norwegian working life. Norway is going very well, but there is nothing we can take for granted. We cannot rule out that we are going to have more pressure related to the law on permitting. That's why I'm so concerned that at this point, before we see the pressure increase, we have to make sure that we have good practice to ensure equal treatment of similar cases. But then I am also very concerned that it is now that those who become unemployed in Norway are basically getting a new job. We have to make sure that we also have a good system for constantly having good transitions, and that is what is always the balance of the law on permitting: Yes, where there is a passing economic downturn, we need to ensure and maintain skills, but we also need to ensure that we do not keep the skills that can be used in those parts of Norwegian working life where we need labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e941	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: «Many working part-time in public activities lose their right to service if their employment rate is less than 35 pst. or 14 hours a week. In a number of professions, many work in several part-time jobs, which together represent a higher proportion of jobs. Nevertheless, they do not qualify for a public service pension at the retirement age. Will the Council of State contribute to the total public sector labour input used in the calculation of pension entitlements for public service pensions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e950	The question raised by the representative Eriksson concerns pension entitlements for those with small sizes in the public sector. The minimum limit on the right to membership in the public occupational pension scheme is 14 hours per week and 35 hours per week. position of teachers. The person with more than one job relationship below this minimum limit may exceed the minimum limit if one adds up the different job shares. For positions belonging to the State pension fund, this relationship is resolved. Here are part-time positions below the minimum pensionable age if they are combined with other positions with members of the State pension fund and the sum of the positions meets the minimum level. This applies regardless of whether the employment relationship is with the same employer or different employers. The pension management of combined positions in the municipal sector depends on whether the employee has the jobs of the same employer or of several employers. In those cases where the jobs are with the same employer and together exceed the minimum limit, the job parts are aggregated by the employer and reported to the pension provider. In contrast, when the job parts are with different employers, there is usually no such aggregation of the job parts. This is because each employer has a separate pension scheme with the pension provider. For those cases where a person has more than one job with the same employer and where there is both a State pension fund and a municipal occupational pension scheme that is a pension provider, this is not a problem either. Total job relationships will be reported here to one of the pension providers when the sum of the jobs exceeds the minimum threshold. The conclusion is that the problem raised by the representative Eriksson is essentially addressed for the benefit of each employee. Where this is a problem, the job situation is linked to two different employers in the municipal sector. In my view, this issue is a practical but affordable challenge that employers and pension providers in the municipal sector themselves should seek to solve. With the government’s proposal for a new public service pension in the context of the 2009 tariff settlement, the minimum requirement for membership of public occupational pension schemes would be lower than is currently the case. The government's arrangement would thus have made the issue Robert Eriksson raises, considerably less.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e967	I thank you for your answer. I am also well aware that this has been solved with regard to the State pension fund, but I still experience a lot of requests from different teams that you have not managed to solve it even if it is an opening for it in the legislation of the municipal sector. To give an example: a good deal of cultural workers, to use that term, who work a little at one of the music schools and have it as an employer, then you work a little at a school, and then you might work a little at the music school in the neighboring municipality. They are then out of service. If you work in two neighbouring municipalities, in small jobs, as many do, should you have also looked at the possibility of combining the total amount of work? Given that it is the municipal sector, and that it is the CLP that is the pension provider, it should be trouble-free, I think. I don't know how the council looks at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e974	As I think we agree, there is a problem that is limited to the municipal sector and to that situation. The representative has provided some examples. I see that it's a real problem for those involved, but it's also true that these municipal pension schemes are based on collective agreements, and I think it must be the parties that get to sit down and clean up how to deal with it. With regard to the example to which reference was made, where one has the same pension provider, etc., the parties should be able to clean up that relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e979	Based on the figures I have received from the KS, there are 47,000 employees who have jobs of less than 14 hours and are still not able to earn pension entitlements. We see in many cases that they do not get other types of jobs so they can connect these jobs to get a larger job home, either. They are considered in different vicariates, which means that they save the pension costs. I took up this relationship already on March 15, 2006, which was almost six years ago. At the time, the then Minister of Renewal, Heidi Grande Røys, said that this was a problem to be considered. My question is, how far have you come from the government's position to have looked at it, and when will you get back to the Stortinge with those conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e986	First, I just want to say that I'm going to address that question with the current Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church to get feedback on that particular issue. When it comes to the problem with these 47,000, it's a little bit unclear to me whether you can stop from that those people don't have service, or whether they're people who work 14 hours. It has not been given that there is any direct connection between those numbers, even my explanation in the post. I just have to repeat my answer, that this is a tariff pension scheme. There are two independent parties who are faced with this problem. It's natural that the tariff parties sit down and solve that problem insofar as they shouldn't have big, insurmountable problems in doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e993	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-15.ana.ud2287e1006	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
