ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e26	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Arild Stokkan-Grande on parental leave from 2 January to 25 January from the representative of Erling Sande on parental leave from 2 January to 27 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Sogn and Fjordane County: Knut Magnus Olsen 8 January to 22 March For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bard Langsävold 8.-24. January
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e62	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e65	I only have two hands, so if the president could help me with the third, it was fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e70	We're going to try to find another one.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e73	On behalf of the representative Tenden and myself I have the following Christmas gifts for Stortinget: It is first a proposal to increase the number of doctoral students and to ensure more career paths in school. It is also a proposal for an overall review of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e82	Does the next proposal apply to students who become pregnant immediately after completion of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e85	We can take it, too, President! There are transitional arrangements for students who become pregnant immediately after completion of education. Thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e94	The representative, Michael Tetzschner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e98	On behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Ingerd Schou, André Oktay Dahl, Siri Meling and the undersigned, I have delighted to make proposals for the law on legal certainty in the use of coercive measures by the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e103	The representative Siri A. Meling will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e106	On behalf of Borghild Tenden, Per-Willy Amundsen, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to take care of the industry's need for predictable power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e111	All representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e123	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e130	We are approaching the Christmas season with a stormy ride, and I will therefore take the opportunity to wish the Prime Minister a really good and peaceful Christmas celebration with his. We live in a good country how much is good. Most of us enjoy a few fine days with family, relatives and friends. But to me Christmas belongs primarily to the children. Seeing expectations, joy, excitement and surprise in little children's eyes is perhaps the most beautiful thing at the Christmas celebration. But the number of children who are poor has increased in recent years. There are now as many as 102,000 children living in poverty in our own country. For these children, Christmas celebrations can be more associated with grief than with joy, and the contrasts become especially evident in Christmas. I will not doubt for one second the desire of the Prime Minister and the Government to combat child poverty. I know the Prime Minister has real commitment to the weak. Nor should I claim that the Progress Party and I have all the answers. At least we don't have a magic pen that can eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. But what I have is a burning desire to do something about the problem, so that more children can enjoy their everyday lives. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he will be involved in a cross-political effort, where we will sit down together over the New Year, discuss concrete measures and proposals to combat child poverty, so that we can make a promise to overcome this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e143	I would like to start by wishing the representative Jensen a very good Christmas, and I hope she gets a good and well-deserved holiday. Then I want to say that I'm glad she's raising the question of children growing up in families with bad advice. Although the representative Jensen is right that there is a lot of good in this country, there are still too many children growing up in families where parents have bad advice. Therefore, they grow up under difficult economic conditions. One main reason for this is, not least in many immigrant groups, a combination of low incomes and many children. The main emphasis of poor-advised families is on low-income immigrants. The main reason for their low income is lack of integration. The main reason is lack of a job. For this reason, it is also the most important thing for this group to do to combat child poverty, to help more people get into work through integration, Norwegian training and the type of action. We would like to discuss this and other measures with other parties on the Stortinget. We have presented comprehensive measures in the State budget. We will promote further action in other documents through the spring to the Stortinget, and there are good opportunities to discuss how to get joint action to further help families struggling with poor advice. Everything about integrating immigrants and work is perhaps one of the most important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e152	I choose to interpret the answer positively to the Prime Minister, in the sense that he says yes to sit down with the opposition in Stortinget in order to establish a cross-political agreement that can ensure that more children live in a safe, good economic environment in the time to come. Now I intend to follow it up by sending an invitation to all the parties in January, so that we can start the important work. But in addition to that, I would like to stress the importance of bringing the voluntary sector to this task. These are people who, throughout the month of December, and to the extent that the whole year also, for that matter, stands at the pots and freezers of the Salvation Army to collect money and clothing – people who make a big difference in their communities every day. The list is long, but what it shows is a broad popular commitment to helping others – that is, almost a crowd. It's a virtue that I think politicians should also take part of, so I expect the Prime Minister to accept an invitation for such a settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e159	Voluntary organisations and voluntary efforts are essential for the Norwegian welfare community, and not least for many of those who have the most difficulty. We should welcome that, and we should express our thanks for the work of many volunteers. In addition, they deserve support, and that is why financial support to non-governmental organisations has been substantially increased in recent years. So we're going to facilitate volunteering – it's a crucial part of the work for social reconciliation – and we're going to do it both through recognition and through financial support. In the case of children living in poverty, it is that, in addition to integration and work, drugs and psychiatry are an important cause of poverty. We know that parents who are struggling with drug problems often have problems giving their children the care and growth they need. That is why addiction and psychiatry are also important for poverty interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e166	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e169	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is so clearly signaling that he will receive the extended hand from the Progress Party and Party leader Siv Jensen in the fight to combat the growing child poverty. Child poverty in Norway is primarily about children who do not have the opportunity to participate in activities in the same way as other children; it is about children who do not experience it. summer holidays and not allowed to participate in football or recreational activities. Red Cross is one of the organisations that makes a significant effort to give children the opportunity to take part in vacations, through the holiday project for everyone. Unfortunately, in recent years, the Red Cross has had to reject two thirds of applications. They don't have room for more than 1,000 children. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister, without prejudging the events in such a good way: Will he agree to give a promise to children who are not allowed to go on vacation, and to facilitate a better framework for the voluntary sector, so that more children can experience a summer holiday?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e176	I can say, and promise, that we are going to improve the framework conditions for non-governmental organisations, including the Red Cross. We are in the middle of a significant escalation, where we have increased the appropriations and the support considerably and will continue to do so. There is no need for a separate meeting or treatment of it; it is simply to carry out the escalation notified to non-governmental organisations. It significantly increases support for them and will enable organisations such as the Red Cross to do even more towards them, for example. families with children who are not on leave. It's about doing what we've told us to do, and we're doing well. There has been a significant increase, at the latest in the year's budget, and it will also be followed up in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e181	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e184	Since the Christmas mood and reconciliation have obviously been over the Storting, I would like to say that I agree with the Prime Minister that the root causes of poverty are the lack of integration and the absence of participation in the labour market. It's worth mentioning, for example. that in our capital, the city we are now in, is the great cause of poverty, new immigrants who are not integrated and who do not enter the labour market. Doing something about the causes of poverty is the most important thing, and unfortunately this government does not have anything to do with it. But it's also important to fix the symptoms. We know that one of the things that is important to many children, those who may not get a pair of skates or a couple of skis for Christmas, is to be able to access that kind of equipment for the rest of the year – even if you have not got it at home – or have access to, for example. experiences, participating in a football game or in a concert. Every year, the right has provided additional funds for local poverty interventions, which are used up too early in the year, reporting to municipalities. Why does the government not want to strengthen these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e192	We strengthen the municipalities, and thus strengthen the ability of municipalities to do that type of poverty response. We're talking about 60 billion. kr more to the municipalities, which has made them significantly better able to solve, among other things. the type of tasks. In addition, we have significantly strengthened financial support for non-governmental organisations, which is also a contribution to providing the type of offer to families with children and others who are struggling. It's a little special to hear representatives from the Right criticise us for doing too little when it comes to poverty. When they put themselves in charge, the proportion of children in poor families tripled. Now the proportion has flattened and actually declined slightly, according to how the OECD measures poverty. We're not satisfied with that, but the results under this government are infinitely better than the results under the previous government, and it's precisely because we wanted to do something about the basis for, or the causes of, poverty. It is about work – low unemployment and high employment is a type of response to poverty – as well as everything we do in the social sector and psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e199	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e202	The Prime Minister is good with figures, but in 2004 there were just under 70 000 poor children, and now Nav came up with a report that said it was just over 100 000, so even if you can use a share, or trick with numbers, it is at least certain that there have become more poor children. The Prime Minister pointed to the last government. I remember very well the election campaign in 2005, when my great role model, Prime Minister Bondevik, was run hard on poverty. He said that if there was one thing he could do more for, it was poverty, and he regretted that he had not done more. In the 2009 election campaign, there was a new pressure that it had not been done enough for the poor. Kristin Halvorsen was great, I think – she went out and complained on behalf of the poor that she had not been able to eradicate poverty. Although Stoltenberg has a great commitment and has had many measures, which he has now listed up – and I could have helped him with several measures – the results have not been as good as we would have liked. So I give the Prime Minister the opportunity – that's a yes/no question: does he want to complain to the poor that he has not been done more?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e209	I want to do even more. We've done a lot. In addition to what I have mentioned in the areas of work, integration, psychiatry and rudimentary measures that have escalated, we have made significant efforts to improve housing support schemes, we have raised the minimum benefits of popular security, and we have created our own qualification programmes to help long-term recipients of social assistance into either education or work. In short, as far as the description of reality is concerned again: I referred to the figures made by the OECD, based on their objectives. In 2001, there were 2 pst. of all children in households with what they call permanent low income, or poor families. The proportion was increased to 4.94 pst. In 2005, and has now fallen slightly, to 4.91 p.m., so a strong growth has stopped and flattened out. We like to discuss what to do with poverty, but hearing those who were responsible for it earlier – when we had a strong growth – criticize us who have at least managed to do something about it, becomes a little special.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e218	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e221	I also wish the Prime Minister Christmas. And maybe you should rely a little bit more on what you say to each other at Christmas than what you say to each other when it's a campaign? In 2009, on live TV, party leader Lars Sponheim asked if the Prime Minister would be in a hurry to combat child poverty. That's what the Prime Minister wanted. On the first day of the new session, the Left promoted a Document 8 proposal to combat child poverty. Then the prime minister would no longer. When the distribution message arrived, there was no response to that group. The Left promoted 20 proposals for action in the Chamber, and 20 times the Prime Minister's parties rejected the Left's proposal. Now the Prime Minister has managed to produce a statistics that show that there were as many poor children in 2005 and when he has had 400 billion. kr more to go with, I don't think there's any great consolation. Why did the Prime Minister break his promise to poor children in the election campaign, and why should we believe in him now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e228	I mean, you have to trust people both at Christmas, in election matches and the like. It's a very good trait to say what you mean, and do everything you can to achieve the goals you set and keep the promises you give. That's why we've done what we said we should do: step up the fight against poverty. We are not satisfied – it is a lot of a mess, but we refer to a lot of actions that have contributed and that have helped a lot of people. The most important thing is to help integrate, because the largest group of poor are people with a migrant background. Many have come to Norway. Many of them have low incomes and many children, and that makes them come here poor, or at least with poor finances. We're doing what we said we were going to do, and we want to keep doing just that. I pointed out that we have submitted several documents, for example: the distribution message. There we have put forward large and small measures, and we have been open to discuss them with the other parties on the Stortinget. We've got a lot of good action, and we want to do more of that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e239	So we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e242	Let me put myself in the line of those who want good Christmas to the Prime Minister. Christmastime gives many reflections, and the reflection that has been on the previous round of questions – that there are people who don't have that good – I intend to follow up. That's how Christmas is – it's family time, and there's too many of the most fun and best days of the year. But for some children, it's not. Rest problems and mental problems in the family can make the holidays incredibly difficult for children. Yesterday Kirsti told a strong story at the NRK about how she grappled for Christmas, while others rejoiced. Health Minister Gahr Støre has commendably urged adult responsibility in terms of drug abuse and drug use during Christmas, and we shall all take this seriously, but as politicians we also have a responsibility to help these children, both during Christmas and the rest of the year, by offering their parents a better offer. Under the direction of Stoltenberg, the Workers' Party went to the elections in 2009 for a much better offer to drug addicts. They said that the help should be given more quickly. Today, the waiting time for help is exactly as long as when the promise was given – 75 days on average. At the same time, we see a shift taking place in which many outpatient treatment institutions are closed down to the benefit of outpatient treatment. This means that those children who already have a burden on parents with drug abuse and mental problems do not experience that their parents are being picked up or that a well-connected offer is being made. The pressure in the treatment offer is still there, without at the same time building up a better contact device in the municipalities. On the contrary, this government has now removed the designation of what was to build up the offer for relatives. My question to the Prime Minister is: why is it that this government, which has not achieved the goals set by the Workers' Party before 2009, downgrades addiction and psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e253	Let me also express a really hearty Christmas to Erna Solberg and wish her a really good holiday! Then I am happy to meet Erna Solberg – and all of you – for good debates after the Christmas holidays. When it comes to drugs, I feel that there is a complete consensus in the United Kingdom and in political Norway that this is a very serious social problem — drugs in general and children affected by parental abuse of drugs, in particular. It is about those people who have drug problems, but it is also about all their family members – their wife, children, spouse, husband and friends – because it affects so many people as well as those who have the problem. I think this is an area where we can never say that we are satisfied with the effort, but this is also an area where we can document a very powerful escalation. There have been many more who receive treatment — both daily and outpatient treatment has increased. The waiting time has fallen – there are now 63 days at 2nd tertiary 2012, a 9-day decrease since 2011 – and there are fewer queues. This is not satisfactory and good enough, but it is an expression that when we give more money, organize it better, bet more – in general, in specialist health services and hospitals – it gives results. But in addition to what the state is doing, what the hospitals are doing, what the municipalities are doing, and the amazing effort that voluntary organizations are doing in the fight against drugs, we have a responsibility as adults, as individuals, to do something in relation to drugs. The fact that we have a restrictive alcohol policy also helps to reduce drug problems in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e262	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister says that he is not satisfied with what you achieve, but then I have to ask that question: why do you think that you should no longer give priority to drugs and psychiatry within health businesses? From this year on, the prioritisation instructions of healthcare companies have been removed. Lars Vorland in Health Nord has said that this priority instruction is a powerful control that has worked, that it is therefore patients with drug problems and psychiatric problems that have been prioritised. The same is true of Specter, who is the Hospital Liaison Group, who has also said that the board works. Now the government has taken control away, so there are 2,573 people in line for drug treatment in Norway, and that should no longer be a priority. And so government councillor Gahr Støre said that this -- prioritizing these patients -- was giving a false signal. How can the Prime Minister say that he is not satisfied when he is at the same time depriving himself of his priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e268	It's not right that we down prioritize. On the contrary, we are strengthening the effort on the Russians. There are several treatment demands: the number of places in daily treatment has increased from 1500 to 1700 only since 2008. The number of outpatient consultations has increased from 154 000 to 307 000 — almost a double. So there's a significant increase in drug treatment, and waiting times go down. But what I think you're mixing up a little bit is that in the past, there was a demand for a percentage increase in expenditure in relation to drug treatment than in relation to, for example, drug treatment. cancer or other health sector tasks. We thought this was a bad control signal, so now we have put about this to make a demand for strengthening the overall capacity, where the quality of the offer is also part of what we are measuring for. I believe that there is a better way to control the public sector, to be concerned with the results, than just to be concerned about how much money is allocated. And the results are that more people are being treated, that the waiting time is going down, and that we're increasing the effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e273	There will be four follow-up questions – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e276	I feel that the Prime Minister does not entirely answer the question, and that he does not take real responsibility, that he somehow keeps it at an arm's length. For it is a fact that the daily treatment provision of addicts and mentally ill people across the country is being reduced, without any good alternatives being available. Several are offered outpatient rather than daily treatment, and that may be good for some, but for others it is a very poor alternative. And that means that more addicts are going to live at home in their families. It increases the load on the relatives, and maybe especially on the children. And even though municipalities are given greater responsibility for addicts, the government has cut off the subsidy for rural measures in the municipalities. So I don't feel that what the Prime Minister says is taking responsibility and securing good deals. On the contrary, they waive liability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e283	What I'm referring to is data from the Joint Data on multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug use, TSB. The figures then show that the daily capacity has increased from 1,593 places in 2008 to 1,753 places in 2011. However, more important than this is that the number of outpatient consultations has increased from 154 746 in 2007 to 307 850 in 2011, and the waiting time has decreased, and more people are receiving treatment. That's the numbers I'm referring to. That's the numbers that the Ministry of Health gives us, and that's what I'm counting on. At least both points strongly upwards – a significant strengthening. But again, I feel a little bit like we're in the same tracks, both the position and the opposition, in every question hour, because you point to shortcomings and I point to what's done, and the truth is that you're right and I'm right. Because there are gaps, we are not in the target, not that all queues and all problems are solved, but we are going in the right direction – in this area as in so many other areas – by doing something about the problems and increasing capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e290	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e293	Yes, it is true that we sometimes feel that we have heard this debate before, at least the answers, that there has never been more money and that there has never been more. I also know the Samdata numbers. But at the same time, the Prime Minister says that there are the results that count, and the results are, in fact, that we are still getting feedback about institutions that are being laid down, institutions that cannot receive more – I have a long list here of institutions that can no longer accept addicts. But when the Prime Minister is so concerned with the results – and the Progress Party is, in fact, too – I wonder at one thing: the result that is important must be how many people are out of work after treatment, and when the Progress Party calls for this to be a criterion when choosing who is to be offered, the Prime Minister and the Government want this not to be a criterion. Will the Prime Minister agree, for the future, that being free of drugs will also be a criterion?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e302	I believe that the purpose of drug treatment is for you to become drug-free, or at least to live with your troubles in a better way than before you received treatment. Whether it can be formulated as a criterion, for example: in tender documents, I dare not say over the table, but I am therefore concerned with results, and this is an important result. The second is that I agree – as the representative Olsen said – that we have heard something of this before, or at least some questions and answers that are similar. It's a philosophical question whether it's the problems that are raised that are the same, or whether it's the answers that are the same. At least if the questions are similar, the answers must also be similar – as long as the answer is the same Prime Minister! As far as my main concern is concerned, in addition to what we do on the treatment side, which we strengthen, prevention is also about combating drugs. And the fact that we have a restrictive alcohol policy is a main reason why we have less drug problems, less drug use in Norway than in very many other countries. It is therefore not only possible to be concerned with treatment and police, it is also necessary to be concerned with prevention, and there are probably different views of the Progress Party and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e311	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e314	On Monday I sat and talked to a girl at approx. Twenty-five years old called Tine, who was clearly characterized by rushes. She went on methadone and was a little afraid to crack because she had done it a few times before. She knew that if she cracked one more time, she would be inserted, and then she would lose her dog, which was the most important thing she had. She managed to stay restless because of it, but she wanted to be admitted. But it was a long wait, so she was still in line. The Prime Minister knows very well that when you have motivation, it is essential that you get help. Nevertheless, it is felt that, for example: The Salvation Army and the Gospel Center have free space. Non-profit institutions are not put into service as much as they have the capacity to do so. At the same time, it can also be seen that Nybøle or Phoenix Haga are being put down — organisations that want to help and that have the opportunity to do so. What is the logic that such institutions are going to be shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e323	Firstly, I very much share the personal concern expressed by the representative about how bad it is to have drug problems. It's about the individuals, but it's also about all their closest friends. That's why it's important that we help them, and I think that methadone is one important way to help people -- partly to help them out of a rush, and partly to simply admit that some people are going to live with that problem all their lives, and make it life as worthwhile as possible. For voluntary and non-profit institutions, it is a very important part of drug treatment. I don't remember exactly the number, but I think over half of the offers are within volunteer private. That's a big part, and we're betting on it and building it out. But one challenge we have, is that we have tenders, competition, between these organizations. Then there's someone who wins and others who loses. Then I think we just have to accept that if we have tendering procedures, which we have within, for example. the provision of services to all who submit a tender will not be the case. Sometimes it'll be a change of which institutions it offers. Overall, this is increasing, although not everyone wins all tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e330	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e334	I hear the Prime Minister say everything just gets better in this field. Nevertheless, we had about 300 overdose deaths in Norway last year. We're at the top of Europe. Erling Pedersen of the Trade Union within the drug field called the state budget the worst bet on the drug field. We experience that many institutions are being laid down. We experience that proposals that come here in the hall from the others, for example. establishing a 24-hour guarantee would have helped in exactly what Robstad raised in the case of motivation. We see that proposals to try new instruments, such as: Heroin-assisted treatment, just put on ice, and you run a crusade against all the private, or those who try to be different. Will the Prime Minister still insist that this is very good, when the professionals call it the worst bet in the field of drugs?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e341	I have stressed in this debate, as in many other debates, that we are not satisfied. But we're pointing out that development is moving in the right direction, that we've chosen to step up our efforts on drugs, because it's such a serious social problem. Then I've referred to a number of numbers as regards that more people are being treated, that we are, for example. Almost doubled the number of outpatients receiving treatment and also increased the number of people receiving daily treatment and decreases in waiting times. It's good for those who get treatment, but of course it's a skinny comfort for those who don't. That's why we're going to continue that development. In the case of heroin-assisted treatment, there has been a wide-ranging debate in the government parties and in the Workers' Party, and the majority of the Workers' Group found that it would not be recommended. There are various professional assessments of whether this is a good or bad proposal, but it must be accepted that it is not a matter of a lack of willingness to help the addicts. It is about different assessments of whether it is a proper measure to use or not. So here's the disagreement about professional matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e348	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e351	Of course, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we also wish the Prime Minister a blessed Christmas celebration, in order to get a little bit different from the previous ones. I intend to stick to Christmas. I'm sure the Prime Minister's house has not passed by the fact that the last few weeks have been a rather intense debate on our Christmas traditions and their significance. My daughter, for example, is... at this time participate in a school god service, also in a part of this city where there are many multicultural, but where this runs smoothly. Earlier today we have had the traditional Christmas tour here in Stortinget, where we, among other things, has sung ‘A child is born in Bethlehem’. [[Laughter]] The debate we have had suggests that we really have three categories in this country. A category is now so afraid that we're going to celebrate Christmas with any traditional Christian content that you want to sweep everything under the carpet. Rewriting of ‘Delige is Earth’ etc. can serve as an example of that category. Then we have another category that is so culturally careful and tender that you refuse to promote any view, for the sake of the others. In Sweden, there is now even a story about Jenny Simic's son who came and was tired because he didn't get to be a peppercake man at this year's lucia celebration because it could hurt someone. Then we have the third, and it belongs to me, and I believe many with me, who believe that this is a celebration where we're actually going to take care of our cultural and value traditions. My challenge to the Prime Minister is: how does he view this issue, and in what category does he feel at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e362	I feel at home in the tradition that I think many people in Norway feel at home in – we really appreciate the Christmas traditions and are very happy with everything that belongs to Christmas, not least in our Christmas songs. In my family we sing many Christmas songs with a strong feeling and glow. We sing with varying – what to say – voice, and varying knowledge of the text in all verses, but it is at least an engagement of the very great when we walk around the Christmas tree, hire each other in our hands and have great joy in it. I think that's very common in Norway, and it's even though we've become a country where people to a greater extent than before belong to different religious communities and come from different environments and backgrounds. Nevertheless, the Christian Christmas traditions are very strong in Norway. At the same time, I belong to a political direction, an ideology and a thinking that is about us showing tolerance. We're going to accept diversity, and I also think the Christian Christmas traditions tolerate other people doing other things and believing in other gods or other traditions. Christian Christmas traditions are strong in Norway. I think we're going to have a lot of joy of them also in this Christmas, and I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e369	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e372	I'm not going to do so personally in the follow-up, but I hear what the Prime Minister says, and that's fine. But really, this is also a rather important question that we have a more multicultural society than before. The question is how we, as a national Parliament, also deal with it, while at the same time preserving the value base on which this country has been based for over 1,000 years. An example of this is the Storting's decision earlier this year on a new value paragraph, which states that our Christian worth continues to "remain" our basis of values in this country. As VG's commentator Anders Giäver wrote: ‘To open up to new cultures, others must also be given the opportunity to open up to our own culture.’ I would like to confirm that this is also the basis for the government's view.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e384	The answer to that question is yes. I could end up there, but let me stay a little bit by it, because I think it's an important topic to discuss how different cultures, different religions and different traditions live side by side. It is clear that we should be concerned about taking care of all the fine things in the Christian cultural heritage. It is also, in fact, established in the Church Agreement, where it is a new wording – I think it is to Section 2. Where it was previously said that «the Evangelical Lutheran religion remains the religion of the State», we have now formulated more a value paragraph for the state, where we refer to the Christian cultural heritage. In this it is that the Christian cultural heritage has a special position in Norway. I see no contrast between believing it and at the same time accepting that other people have different beliefs, different cultures and live with it, as long as we respect each other. I also believe that, in addition to the state church agreement, we have done another important thing in recent years. It's about the whole faith training reform. We have given quite a lot of money to expand the religious training around the country's congregations, which is also an expression that we want to strengthen and take care of that part of our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e391	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e394	I did not feel quite that the Prime Minister answered that question. This is not about how the Prime Minister sings Christmas songs in the private sphere. Rather, this is about how the Norwegian people feel that more and more of our values and traditions are being explained away in the public space because some people believe that it may offend others. There have been quite a number of reactions to different events, both this year and before, about the fact that we are so afraid to stand up for what many experience as the Norwegian identity, our traditions and our values. Rather, I believe on the contrary that it builds a society, that there is better room for both tolerance and other views when you have a common foundation to build on. That's why I think the Prime Minister should go into that issue more thoroughly. So it's a force in terms of what we're identifying with, being reinterpreted and explained out. Does the Prime Minister think that is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e399	The answer to that question is no. We're not going to explain and reinterpret what we stand for. We shall stand for that, argue for it, and assert it with pride. What we stand for can vary slightly between different people. But I think it’s nice that you stand for what you stand for, not what you don’t stand for. I think that's quite obvious. I believe that everyone who believes in the Christian religion, who believes in the Christian values, should, of course, stand up for them. We have our own constitutional change, where we establish that the Christian cultural heritage is an important part of our value base. We have implemented a comprehensive reform of religious training in the churches, and have given significant increased support to it. These are things we mean and actually do something about. In addition to that, we have reduced our own selection, the Committee of Faith and Life, led by the head of the Church's City Mission, Sturla Stålsett. The committee is promoting its proposal on 7 January, and it will provide a good opportunity to discuss these issues further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e407	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e410	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I am pleased that the Prime Minister so clearly stresses the importance of the Christian basis of values being clearly laid down in the Constitution, and that he also uses it. Jens Bjørneboe has said that if you take the Bible history from a person, you take half his childhood from him. The Prime Minister refers to what it means from challenges that we have a more multicultural society, and that we should show respect and tolerance to it. I think many of us experience the same thing that was expressed in the VG on Saturday. A Muslim teacher then said: ‘Christianity is strongly present in what we can call our national cultural heritage. As a Muslim, I have no problem claiming and defending this." My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree that it is important that Norwegian students continue to be allowed to experience school gods in Norwegian schools, and that a more multicultural society does not prevent this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e422	Yes, and that's part of what we add up to. But we're going to show respect for someone's belief, and we have to show respect for the way it's practiced. I think the key is always respect that others can believe in other things and belong to other religions. I think that in addition to becoming multicultural or multi-religious, in the sense that we, for example. More Muslims, we're going to experience something that's becoming clearer, that we're not just getting Protestants, but that we're also getting a lot more Catholics in Norway. It's a diversity, which I think has always enriched our country, but which puts us all on some trials. I think we're going to pass it excellent, because we're a tolerant country and want to be a tolerant country in the future as well. And then we get the opportunity to discuss all of this, because the government thinks it's an important question. We have reduced our own selection – the Committee on Faith and Life, with Sturla Stålsett as the leader – just to invite you to discuss what this means for the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e429	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e432	Knowing yourself, knowing your culture and background is probably the best thing to do against extremism and misunderstandings and to be able to meet others with openness. I have no doubt that in a society where people are sure of their basic values and the fundamental values of society, it makes it easier to meet others – such as those who want to tear it down – who have different values, but who should be respected when they believe in something else. There are many people around in the public sector who have a slightly different and confusing view of what is our idea, for example. on school gods. We see that the discussion about whether it should be or not to be school divination, show up, because someone doesn't want to, can or does not want to attend. Then is my follow-up question to the previous question: Will the Prime Minister make sure that there is a clear signal that we actually consider it desirable to carry out religious services for those who want to do so, under the direction of the schools in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e439	I believe that we have basically managed to practice this in a good way in Norwegian school. I have great faith in the local school leaders, in the principals and teachers, that they find a way to practice this that both takes care of the Christian cultural heritage, takes care of services as part of our Christmas celebration, and at the same time manages to show respect for those who are not at home in that tradition and culture. I have good confidence in the practice of Norwegian school leaders. If there are examples of the opposite, we're going to have to deal with it. What I have reacted to has been a few references to the idea that we politicians should almost think about everything, for example. Programme content in the NRK or other things that you can respond to. There I believe that we politicians should be a little careful to become over-editors or people who think anything about everything in terms of how things are designed and made, regardless of what we have to experience personally is our attitude to the examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e446	We are moving on to the next main question, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e449	To hold on to the Christmas theme: many will go out and go on Christmas. Someone is flying, but a lot of people are going to drive a car. A lot of people are going to meet at toll stations on the road. Tolls are collected to pay off loans, because you have built the road. In his speech to the Prime Minister on 24 April of this year, the Prime Minister warned against partially privately funded road and rail development. He said, ‘The model provides less money in total for new construction of the road and the track, because the state around the next turn has to pay both instalments and interest for the money that could otherwise have been built. [[...]] [[...]] Those who believe something else have either been tricked or wondered themselves." Now the National Audit Office has just submitted a report after controlling its toll stations, which are largely public. A quarter of the bombers have made more than half of their revenues available for operation and interest, i.e. not for road construction. In fact, two pieces have such high operating and interest costs that they have to have government grants to go into zero. The National Audit Office has been subject to a total of 46 bomb companies. They have 22 billion. kr in loans and borrowing rates of between 2,5 pst. and 4 pst., according to the report. So much funding has been given to roads, exactly what the Prime Minister strongly warned against. What becomes an extra mockery of the drivers is that while lending is financing roads – from 2.5 pst. up to 4 pst. interest - the country lends the oil money to other countries to slightly less than 1pst. interest rate. Most people actually own the oil fund, but they have to borrow their money cheaply, so to borrow back the money expensive – despite the fact that the Prime Minister warned that there is a bad way to finance road construction. Can the Prime Minister give a Christmas present by promising that Norwegian drivers will not be able to finance roads in a bad way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e465	What I can promise is that we're going to keep escalating the road appropriations. We're on track for what we said in the previous national transport plan, that we were going to spend 100 billion dollars. kr more on the road, track and port – transportation – than we did in the previous planning period. For this reason, there are now record government appropriations for road and rail development in Norway. In addition — on top of the sharp increase in government appropriations — there are tolls. Bomb projects come because it is a wish for it locally, one wants even more projects than the record-breaking government appropriations provide. You want to get faster development, and then there's a local desire about it. So we've said yes to many of those projects. It is therefore a broad majority in the Grand Duchy who have voted in favour of them. As far as I know, for example, Right-hand vote for all toll projects. It states that there is a very broad majority in the Storting to put toll projects on the state projects. The Progress Party has many local projects, including: For many years here in Oslo, entered Ring 3, which is the largest toll project in Norway. It's a little strange to hear that you almost create an illusion that it's possible to remove toll projects, which are in addition to state projects. In this case, it will mean less road construction in Norway, and I do not recommend it. In terms of loans and debt financing, I think the Solvik-Olsen representative mixes a little bit here. It is true that the Norwegian State places a lot of money abroad. We place money in stocks, where prices fluctuate a lot, up and down – more up and down, fortunately. So it's bonds, it's also called loans, and there it's clear that there's consistency between risk and return. We can put money in safe papers. The advantage of that is that they are safe, the disadvantage is low interest rates. Or we could put money in a little less secure papers. The advantage of that is that there is a high interest rate, but the disadvantage is that it is not certain that you get the money back. That's the way it is. It's absolutely right that we put something in German state bonds -- they're safe, but it's low interest rates. Then we put something in Spanish state bonds -- they have high interest rates, but they're not as safe. It's called spreading risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e476	I'm well acquainted with terminology, I've worked as a financial analyst. I'm happy about the 100-billion-dollars. kr that the government has promised extra for road construction. The progress party would like to see it even higher. The paradox is that at the same time as the Prime Minister is talking about, we're going to have 1622 billion. kr at the disposal within the action rule. So there's a very small proportion of the oil wealth used for investments in the way. It is true that both the Right and the Workers' Party have voted in favour of all toll projects. The point is, however, that it's possible to do this in a better way. Risks and returns are linked. What could have been possible is, for example: to say that the road projects built with toll financing in Norway, which the Progress Party is against – as a small gift to the drivers – were loaned at the same interest rate as in Denmark. There is little reason to believe that these road projects, even if the toll company were to go bankrupt, would be moved out of the country. The roads are there, they have socio-economic benefits, and therefore the government has accepted that they are being built. The question is: will toll companies at least be given the opportunity to borrow at the same rate as in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e487	I believe that the best way the state supports road construction is by granting money. So we'd like to discuss how much we're going to grant, but we're going to grant record money – 100 billion. kr more. It's a significant increase, and we're on track. It also produces significant results by building more roads than ever before. In addition, we see that there are going to be better roads, the accident rates are going down. There are many reasons for this, but one reason is that we have several middle parts – safer roads – that contribute to safer conditions on Norwegian roads. The support we are going to provide for road construction, we are going to give openly and honestly over the state budget. The loans raised by toll companies are often from, for example: The municipal bank, but they reflect the risk. I think that's okay. When you borrow money, the interest rate reflects the risk. It may vary from very low interest rates to slightly higher interest rates, depending on the general level of interest rates and the risk inherent in the project. So I think you -- once again -- mix two very different things. We're going to give money to the state budget. That's where we've increased sharply. Then you get to finance a loan that can be financed by the toll companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e497	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e500	I want to start by saying that the Prime Minister boasted that this government has granted 60 billion. kr more for the local government sector. It's as much as this government has put on the car lists in extra taxes through tolls. When the Prime Minister says we're going to grant $100 billion. kr more for transportation, this government in eight years has been able to grant 50 billion. kr more – that's half, and we're talking about a decade. So there has to be a lot of government money if you're going to be able to follow it up. In addition to paying $60 billion. DKK in tolls, 10 billion disappear. kr of collection costs and interest expenses, i.e. not to a single metre of road. The National Audit Office has demonstrated that this government could save between 150 and 200 million over all these years. kr with better and more efficient operation. That's what the Riks revision says. Isn't the Prime Minister a little disappointed at that between 1.2 and 1.5 billion? Is it because one does not want to compete and ensure the most efficient operation of the tolling stations? Or is it okay to run that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e509	We have increased significantly the appropriations for roads. What I was talking about was the increase. There's a lot of money in the pool, so in total, we spend about 300 billion. kr on the road and track – only the increase is 100 billion. kr. Then there's going to be a new national transport plan, and then we'll have to wait and see if there's even more going on there. But I think once again we have to stop a little bit and think, one reason why there are several toll projects is that we grant more government money. Then there will be more spice layers the state can participate in. These are local politicians, for example. Here in Oslo, with the Progress Party at its head, which has been a driver of large toll projects for many years. Ring 3 was something the Progress Party was a driving force for – a large toll project. We also see it elsewhere in the country. That's in addition to the state money. When there is more government money, it is also possible to make State contributions to even more toll projects. Overall, there's going to be a lot more way. Basically, there are no free roads. It must be paid either by the taxpayers or by the drivers. It is in length the Norwegian people who pay for Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e518	Øyvind Halleraker – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e521	I think the prime minister is trying to give the impression that these 100 billion dollars. kr shall be used for road construction. What this government has been best at is building up the bureaucracy. Very much of this money goes to the construction of bureaucracy. The state finances a project itself, and that is the Svinesund link. Here the state takes 5 pst. interest rate. It's actually far more than today's NIBOR interest rate, to which some other companies relate. When Stoltenberg talks about increasing road construction, there are substantially loan-funded projects. In fact, there are projects that are up to 100 pst. loans financed, and one of the largest in Norway is Ryfast. The Prime Minister has previously warned against debt financing of roads, and in particular he does so in the context of proposals from the Right on OPS solutions. Can the Prime Minister tell us what is the difference between the loan-funded state roads through the toll companies and debt-funded projects through the OPS companies – both of which involve longer-term commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e532	There are at least two fundamental differences. Difference No 1 is that a toll company withdraws private purchasing power. There are some incomes in the form of tolls, and then you borrow against the future revenues. If you have a fairly even expansion, it's actually that what goes out of money is roughly equal to what goes in of money. So in relation to the level of activity in the economy, it's both a plus and a minus when you have toll financing. If you just borrow against future appropriations, it's just expansive, just gas in the economist. So we have to decide, how much money can we give in total? It cannot be fooled by borrowing against future appropriations. So one big difference is that if you borrow against future appropriations, it's an expansive measure. Loans are financed against current toll payments, and this is regulated by the fact that purchasing power is also confiscated. That's the one difference. The other difference is simply that because this is going to be paid through tolls, this is going to be a constraint. It will not be if it is to be borrowed against future appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e543	Then we go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e546	The EEA is our lifeline to Europe and is crucial for our well-being, our jobs and also for Norwegian businesses. This is Jens Stoltenberg and I fully agree. The big challenge for Jens Stoltenberg is that none of his government partners agree. This has also led us to have had many debates during this autumn here in the main hall where the Workers' Party has had to confirm and ensure that the EEA Agreement is in place. Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide said in an interpellation debate I went on 22 November that ‘the EEA Agreement stands firm’, and that ‘it is totally inappropriate to choose a weaker link’. The challenge is that as Christmas peace descends over both the Stortinget and most of the country, the bike fight breaks out into the government. The more the Workers' Party has been out to insure and confirm that the EEA Agreement is still under way, the more often the Centre Party and SV have been out to say the opposite. They both want to renegotiate the EEA Agreement and Norway to cease to have an EEA link. As the class struggle so strikingly says on Friday 14 December, there is ‘red-green chaos about the EEA’. Swivel if insurance has come from the Workers' Party, what is happening from the SV and the Center Party, is suitable for creating considerable uncertainty for Norwegian jobs – great uncertainty at a time when Norwegian companies also note the challenges of what is happening in Europe: declining exports, falling commodity prices. Parliamentary Vice President Martin Kolberg said the thing about Kristiansen & Strand on TV on October 2 27: If the attacks on the EEA Agreement do not stop, it makes us incapacitated by the government. Does the Prime Minister agree with his parliamentary Vice-President?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e555	Firstly, I fully agree that the EEA Agreement is crucial for Norway. It is the most comprehensive agreement Norway has concluded and it has served Norway well. It has given us both predictability, stability in the economy and also a link to many European cooperation projects, which are formally a little outside the EEA, such as the EEA. research, cooperation on asylum policy and many other areas in which we cooperate with other EEA countries. Therefore, it was also essential for us to clarify before the 2005 elections and at Soria Moria in 2005 that the EEA Agreement should remain in place. We did that in 2005. Similarly, it was essential to clarify it in 2009. We also got it clarified in 2009 – both before and after the elections – and I am absolutely sure that we will also be able to clarify it in connection with the 2013 elections. It is totally inappropriate to do something to weaken the EEA Agreement. We're going to use the space that's there, but we're not going to undermine or weaken the EEA Agreement. It has been established by the government, at the latest, in the EEA General Report, which is being discussed here in Stortinget. The EEA Agreement is established. It is an important agreement for Norway. We have clarified this with the other two government parties in front of the previous two elections – in 2005 and 2009 – and I do not believe that there should be any grounds for uncertainty about that before the 2013 elections either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e562	It must be borne in mind that the person who agrees, and that means that the Prime Minister agrees with the representative Martin Kolberg that the attacks on the EEA Agreement will make the government incapacitated if they do not stop. One thing is what the government writes in big messages and what is said in this room, another thing is the policy being pursued. What contributes to creating uncertainty is that in several cases the government has contributed – with good help from the Centre Party and SV – to undermining the EEA Agreement. Directives are taken into account and try to make as much trouble as possible to create a difficult situation with the EU. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide also said in the same interview debate, a renegotiation of the whole EEA Agreement would jeopardise the agreement. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that renegotiating the whole EEA Agreement would jeopardise the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e569	Yes, to renegotiate the agreement – if you mean renegotiating large parts of the agreement, and not a single paragraph that might be worth looking at – I believe that we will put the whole agreement at risk, because we will be in a completely different negotiating position than we were in when we negotiated the EEA agreement in the early 1990s. When the EEA Agreement is established, that is the agreement. It also means that one cannot, for example, renegotiate and say that services and work are out – you cannot have four freedoms in Europe and two in Norway, so I believe it also includes it. Otherwise, I would just like to stress that I believe we have to bear in mind that there is a discussion about individual directives – including us who are followers of the EEA Agreement. I mean it, for example. was important that we took a fight with regard to the right of return. It was important that we continue to guarantee public and national ownership of the power of the body. There was a conflict with the EEA, the EFTA Court and the whole interpretation of the EEA Agreement, and it was important that we used the space for action to ensure it. I also believe that the temporary agency directive is an example of how we have used the action space to ensure Norwegian rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e577	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e580	I have to admit that it didn't get much clearer after the two answers from the Prime Minister. Termination or renegotiation of the EEA Agreement appears today as the SVs and the Central Party's most important electoral pledge before the 2013 elections. I'm recording that the Prime Minister says he's feeling. ‘ensure that we will also clarify it in the 2013 elections’. My question is whether the Prime Minister will guarantee that this will be resolved before the 2013 elections. In other words, will the Prime Minister cancel the attempts of the SVs and the Central Party to terminate or renegotiate the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e590	I believe that the question has been clarified. As I try to say, it was clarified before the 2005 elections, it was repeated before the 2009 elections, and it was last repeated in the big news that the government has delivered to the Storting on the EEA Agreement. The fact that SV and the Central Party have a different view of the EEA is a well-known matter, but it is therefore among the questions that have been settled in this government, and is a prerequisite for this government all the time. That is why I am absolutely sure that it will be clear also in connection with this election.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e595	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e598	However, it is now the case that the two government parties, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, use a lot of energy to combat the EEA Agreement, which thus has the support of more than 140 representatives in the Stortinget. An overall opposition recommends the continuation of the EEA Agreement. The EEA area is an area to which we export – 79,5 pst. of Norway’s exports to the EEA. Then it is natural to ask the Prime Minister if he will follow up the position of Martin Kolberg, and get the two government partners of the Workers' Party to stop fighting the agreement that is so solidly fixed by a nearly unanimous accumulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e603	I believe the question has been clarified. I would like to confirm this once again, but it has been clarified both in 2005 and 2009 and at the latest in a big message that has been submitted to the Stortinget. That SV and the Center Party have a different view as parties, I accept. They have always had it – they had it both in 2005 and 2009 – but the prerequisite for this government is that we are based on the EEA Agreement. It has been clear for a long time and is still going to be ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e608	Dagfinn Højbråten - till last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e611	The problem is not that the big messages coming here are not clear. Nor is it the problem that representatives of the Workers' Party – both here in Stortinget and in the government – are not clear at their EEA position. The problem is that two government parties are continuously conducting a wandering seminar on the EEA and have decided to make this an electoral campaign. This does not help to clarify it in 2005 or 2009. The question the Prime Minister has to answer is whether he will ensure that this is clarified well in advance of the 2013 elections, so that the voters know that not only the opposition parties are united behind the EEA Agreement as a foundation for an alternative to this government, but that they can also be confident that the government that sits – and intends to sit after the 2013 elections too – has the same foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e618	I believe that the question has been clarified, and I believe that it may be absolutely useful to get a confirmation of the clarification. But at the same time, I believe that there is now unnecessary uncertainty about something that has been clear for a long time. The fact that different party leaders may have different positions in the government is a matter of coalition government. But there is no doubt about what is the government's position; it is fixed time and time again. I believe that a strength by the red-greens before the 2005 elections, when we were still in opposition, was that we settled some of the most difficult issues before the elections – not only that we agreed on more money for the municipalities, it was relatively easy to agree on, but what was more demanding was to agree on NATO, the rule of action, the EEA Agreement and the question of applying for EU membership. These are major and important issues of disagreement that we resolved before the elections, and I believe it was a strength. I believe it is a weakness that citizens have not been able to resolve any of these fundamental disagreements before the elections, for example. the view on the use of oil money and the main component of economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e627	So the oral question procedure is over, and we move on to case No. 2, the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e639	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative Lars Myraune to the Minister for Transport, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 8, from the representative of Knut Arild Hareide to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e654	I would like to address this question to the Minister of Finance: ‘The 85 pst ceiling of the financial supervision. debt in the case of mortgages shall include all forms of debt, including starting loans from the House Bank, as the Council of State said in the answer to my question on 28 November this year. The Ministry has stated in answer to budgetary questions that 93 pst. of all initial loans in 2011 were granted for residential purchases with more than 85 pst. loan financing. Has the picture changed with the new guidelines of 2012 and what, if appropriate, is the Council of State doing to ensure compliance with the guidelines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e668	First just a little clarification of the premise for the question, with reference to what I said in the Question Time on November 28th this year. I quote: ‘First, it is such that the guidelines do not cover central banks. They also exclude cases where the House Bank alone is responsible for lending. On the other hand, it is often the case that an initial loan can also be granted in combination with a bank loan. In such cases, the guidelines shall be included; [[...]] The Financial Supervision Guidelines on Sound Housing Loan Practices apply to banks under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority. Under the guidelines, banks shall not normally provide housing loans exceeding 85 pst. the value of the dwelling. The banks shall take into account all mortgage loans in the dwelling when calculating the lending rate, including any mortgage initial loan. The Ministry of Finance repeated in October this year an answer from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to a budgetary question about the share of start-up loans with a lending rate above 85 p.m. The answer was that about 93 pst. of all initial loans both in 2011 and in the first three quarters of this year were granted with a lending rate above 85 pst. Newer numbers than this are not available. Start-up loans are tested and targeted at people with poor finances or other difficulties in entering the housing market. Municipalities, like banks, are subject to the Financial Contracts Act when providing loans. It implies that they must assess the creditworthiness of the borrower and carry out a so-called soundness assessment. This means that municipalities must advise against the granting of the loan whose financial capacity or other circumstances indicate that the borrower should refrain from taking up the loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e682	The reason I follow up on this is that I got some e-mails after the previous round, where the rapporteurs wrote that they are deeply concerned that the municipality would become a bank. They clearly expressed that they lent up to 100 pst. There must be some confusion here. I am fully aware that what the Minister of Finance said in the answer is right – that it is covered by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s guidelines at once, starting loans are also the basis for other bank financing. Then the banking institutions have to go in. But it must be a paradox when the debt ratio in Norwegian households is so high and there are clear signals from municipalities that it is the municipalities that are starting to take over much of the risk. I think maybe the finance minister should take a look at how we avoid this. What was behind the crisis in the United States was that the public had taken over much of the top funding for housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e689	What happens with the initial loan is that the municipalities are selling a mortgage on a home bank. It is for the municipality to carry out a credit assessment and a soundness assessment of the applicant for an initial loan. In 2011, starting loans were granted for about 6 billion. kr. Half of these loans were granted in combination with a bank loan as a top finance. So it's like approx. one third of those applying for a start-up loan are rejected on the basis of what I said instead: either for lack of payment capacity or other circumstances that make it impossible for them to take up such a loan. So it's like this for starting loans, that there's a risk distribution between the municipalities and the state, where the municipalities take the first 25 pst. And the state of the next 75 pst. If we look at the experience with start-up loans up to 2011, the loss rate was 0.3, so there are relatively small losses on start-up loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e696	This is probably also right, and I hear from the local authorities that there is very little loss. But it's always like this until it eventually snaps – then the losses come. In one of the e-mails I received from the rapporteurs, it is written that this will lead to the banks getting the solid customers at very low risk, while the municipalities receive applications from all those who are unable to provide 15 pst. equity. So in a lot of municipalities, you can see that this is a way of getting around the requirement of equity. Again: I believe that at least one job has to do with getting all the municipalities on the same line, because there is an incredible amount of work now to try to limit the increase in housing prices and try to limit it as some start to characterize it as a bubble – and then it should not come out again through the public sector. I would also like to wish the Minister of Finance – and also the President – a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e705	It is important to understand that the Husbank has a social policy role in building housing in helping people enter the housing market, which otherwise has little prerequisites for entering it. It is important that one puts it at the bottom – including their ability to provide start-up loans. I think we can quickly agree on that. In general, I would say yes, we should have a lot of attention about the build-up of debt in households – on average now twice the gross wage. I guess it's worth keeping an eye on it and also being careful to remind people that the interest rate is now low for more international reasons, that is, the state of the economy around the world, and that you have to expect interest rates to rise. So this is an area where the Minister of Finance is generally concerned, and I fully agree with the representative of Gundersen that we must avoid getting into a situation where we get a significant price drop in this market. Otherwise, the congratulations of a good Christmas and a good new year are reflected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e718	‘The national public health institute shall cease its vaccine production. The question is what should happen to premises and equipment that have been used for the purpose. These are likely to be well-suited infrastructure for companies in biomedical activities, such as organised through the SIVA. Such a solution would be consistent with the measures described in the Notice. [[2011-2012]] St. 22 What's the status now?'
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e725	Thank you for the question. Vaccine production by the National Institute for Public Health, FHI, has been under discussion for decades. Already in St. prp. No 61 for 1999-2000, it was explained that the conditions for vaccine production at the institute had changed. The changes led to production under the direction of the Institute in recent years only linked to the production of meningococcal B vaccines for emergency purposes and for sale to the French authorities. It was therefore decided, as the representative of Warloe refers to, that vaccine production by the National Institute for Public Health should be discontinued. Vaccine production facilities are located in Lovisenberggate 6 and make up 2300 m2 of a total of 12000 m2 of barley, which is wholly rented by Landsbyggen until 2025. The date of withdrawal of vaccine production has not been determined, but it would be natural to see this in the context of the expiry of a sub-renting agreement for parts of the premises in June 2017. The decision to wind up the vaccine production has raised the question of what is going to happen with the production facilities of 2,300 m2, and I understand that this is what representatives want the status. State buildings have carried out, on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, an economic and construction analysis of three alternatives: The Public Health Institute retains the premises which are converted into other activities of the Public Health Institute. The premises are sold or rented to a private operator at market prices. The premises are released as part of the dental competence centre East TKØ clinic building. The conclusion of state-building is that the vaccine production facilities should be put at the disposal of the ongoing pre-project for the construction and rehabilitation of the Institute’s premises on Lindern, and used for that part of the Public Health Institute’s activities that can best benefit from the advanced technical facilities, i.e. a solution for the Institute for Public Health. The analysis showed that it would be far more reasonable to reconstruct the premises of laboratory activities at the institute than to build new premises for the same function. State-building believes that this option is the most flexible in the short and long term in view of any expansion process for the Institute, including: as replacement premises during the construction period. Rents to private operators, option 2, were considered feasible, but both this and option 3 will entail an additional cost for the State because the areas of the institute must be placed in new buildings on an already pressed land. On this basis, the government has recently decided to adapt the premises to other ordinary activities of the National Institute of Public Health and to replace the corresponding number of square metres of new buildings in the pre-project for the construction and rehabilitation of the Public Health Institute’s premises at Lindern.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e763	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer that I saw as one – let's say – final clarification on these premises and equipment, in other words that there will be no possibility at all of them being used for purposes like what was the intention of my question, namely for different types of start-up activities – start-up activities, private activities – in biomedicine, possibly organised through the SIVA. Is it to be seen as a final clarification to the question by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e768	That's a correct summary. I am pleased that the Institute of Public Health has now clarified this question. It is a very important institution for Norwegian health care and Norwegian health care, which is located in many different places in this city and in the country. This decision has been made by the government, after very mature consideration and for a long time, because we believe that overall it will give the Public Health Institute a better starting point, and one of the alternatives was still available for specialised activities in the area that the representative points to, but we found that this was the best. I just want to stress the importance of turning around and giving this institute good working conditions, because the knowledge there is so crucial. I recently visited the Public Health Institute and got a broad information about what they were doing to me. I think this decision helps to give them predictability and the best infrastructure that we can offer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e777	The representative of Warloe shall be given the floor for follow-up questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e780	There's no need for that, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e785	Then the question was answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e792	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The recent report from the National Audit Office points to serious shortcomings in maintenance and major delays in repairs to buildings in the university and higher education sectors, as well as the lack of systems for such follow-up. Poorly, there are buildings owned by the institutions themselves. Such a lack of maintenance threatens the quality of the student offer and the working conditions of the employees. What immediate action will the Council of State take to correct this and improve the building mass?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e801	It is absolutely right that we have a challenge to raise the technical status of buildings for state universities and colleges. Institutions also need functional and adaptable facilities that are better adapted to current and future education and research. The eight self-administrative universities and scientific colleges manage a significant and complex building mass. These institutions have a high proportion of older and protective buildings. Older sheltered building masses are demanding to upgrade to functional and time-consuming areas corresponding to today's construction requirements, forms of teaching and learning, and developments in research needs. The government has put in place measures to improve the state through major rehabilitation projects, and I will follow up the Riksaudition report with measures on the governance side. In addition, I would like to highlight the efforts of the institutions, which have increased significantly in recent years. The government has launched several rehabilitation projects to help improve the status of the sector and several projects are waiting for implementation. Rehabilitation of the centre buildings in Karl Johan's Gate for the University of Oslo is under work, and is an example of extensive upgrade and maintenance being solved as a separate construction project. By 2013 at the latest, the State budget has also adopted the rehabilitation of the Urbygden University of Environmental and Bioscience, and I have, as I know, great ambitions for the development of the university facility at Ås. Self-manageing institutions have significantly increased efforts to upgrade and maintain buildings in recent years. I want to bring out the University of Oslo, which has a demanding building mass to hold in claim. In recent years, the University itself has carried out extensive rehabilitation work on buildings for Preclinical odontology, PO-built, Blinder and Tøen Hauptgård. Similar examples are from other self-managing universities. Rehabilitation work is funded under the existing budgetary framework. Furthermore, in the follow-up to the Riksrevision report, I would like to emphasise that institutions have good governance data, needs assessments and long-term maintenance plans. Overall, this will provide a good basis for improved property management. However, these measures are not sufficient to resolve the maintenance set-off. The self-management institutions do not have enough resources to manage all maintenance work within existing budgetary frameworks. If institutions are to use more of the budget for maintenance and upgrade, they will be at the expense of the core activities of education, research and dissemination. Therefore, in the coming years, targeted efforts are needed to increase the appropriations allocated for this purpose in order to ensure value-reserving maintenance and the necessary upgrading of the buildings. I am very concerned about prioritising such important work, and it must be done in the context of the budgets in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e820	Thanks for the answer. I understand both that this report is fresh and that it is a large and demanding task. We agree on that. But the very fact that there are so demanding building masses makes it extra scary that there has not been a greater focus on it, and that several of these institutions have simply lacked both management information and strategy. I am very pleased that the Council of State says she will grasp this. It is such that the Council of State and the Ministry have regular dialogue with universities and colleges — annual dialogue meetings and governance dialogue — and the Council of State has announced this before. The Councils of State have inter alia: to say that there is a list of the large lag and the amount of money needed to enter the sector. The question is: how could it be like this – how could the situation become so large and the situation become so serious when there is an annual dialogue with the institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e829	There is nothing special for universities and colleges about maintaining and upgrading challenges. There is a problem that very many people will recognize, not least in municipalities that are also responsible for large building masses. Being able to keep up the pressure on maintenance is quite demanding in many organisations. It is often much more stunned by what you can build and that stands there and shines than to maintain what is. I think it's incredibly important to impress in every area of society. So, of course, I'm going to follow up in colleges and universities. We now have quite a number of universities and universities that are built at a time when the standard requirement was completely different, and these need upgrade. Finally, there is a budgetary question. It is about both having an overview of what is needed, having a strategy for its implementation, and giving priority to it in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e836	It's a challenge in many places of maintenance. But it's rare we see so serious numbers, because there's very serious numbers here. So this is the everyday place of 250,000 students and a couple of tens of thousands of employees. Then it's serious when 74 pst. of the higher education institutions and 40 pst., it was well, of the university buildings are in poor technical condition. It's too big numbers, and that's what's scary. I noticed that the Council of State said that a lot had now been done, and that it is moving forward. However, the report shows that the share of construction in poor technical conditions is actually increasing. Then it goes the wrong way. It may have something to do with space of action and a little bit different. Getting skills into place to have systematic follow-up in the institutions I think will be an important task. So I hope and wish that the Council of State can take a well-deserved and good Christmas holiday, and that she folds up her sleeves right after Christmas and tries to incorporate funds into the revised budget, so that we can get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e845	I would like to acknowledge the wish for Christmas, and say the same to the representative Harberg. I would like to thank you for your cooperation. I am very concerned that we have a common knowledge of the major needs we have in the field of maintenance and investment in the higher education and university sectors, and that there can be a consensus in the Storting that this must be a priority in the future. I think that is also related to the priority discussions we are going to have on education, infrastructure and research. All of this is related. I will come back to this in connection with the budgets. It's the way that the self-managing institutions spend $300 million. kr annually on maintenance. But they also have great needs, for it is demanding to be responsible for, and own, old building mass when a significant part of it is also sheltered buildings. It simply requires quite a lot in addition to prioritizing space for the students and good conditions for it. So I'm looking forward to good cooperation on these challenges in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e856	First of all, I wish the Council of State a good and peaceful Christmas. ‘A combined Norwegian railway engineering business says that the market is not functioning properly. In particular, there is a lack of predictability that contributes to this situation that has resulted in cancellations, leave and bankruptcy in 2012. Is the government satisfied with the predictability of the market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e865	First, I would also like to wish the representative a good Christmas and thank you for the wish. I agree that predictability is important for the supplier market. The railway station has, among other things: establish a project overview on its website where all projects and assignments are made public for the purpose of calling for competition. Efforts are being made to increase predictability and better planning possibilities for missions. The railway station informs us that the feedback from the industry regarding the measure has been positive. The railway works further to improve such an overview. In addition, information meetings are also held in cooperation with the State Road Administration on a project basis and through industry meetings where plans are also announced. The implementation of new projects takes place in a defined order by the first publication by the Railway Agency of tenders for land works prices and the development of the railway body itself, while the publication of railway engineering works prices comes to an end in the call-out process. Several of the projects in progress are now approaching the stage of railway engineering work, and the Railway Agency will award several major railway engineering works prices in 2013. Railway contractors are well informed about these projects, both through the Railway Agency’s website and in industry meetings. Due to the increased investment on the railway initiated by the government, the Railway Agency generally records that several foreign companies are also interested in taking up a job in the Norwegian rail market. This contributes to increased competition and thus increased opportunities for reduced project costs. The appropriations for operation and maintenance in 2013 are approximately 5.2 B.C.E. kr, and the priority between operation and maintenance is in line with the railway works’ proposal. It's divided by 3.1 billion. kr for operation, while the provision for maintenance is approximately. 2 billion. kr. In the context of the provision of maintenance, the Railway Agency has, on a professional basis, priority measures which give the best effect in the short term in order to maintain an infrastructure in which trains can run in a safe and operational manner according to the timetable. The Ministry of Transport has not found any reason to review the Railway Agency’s assessment of the way in which dedicated means of maintenance are disposed of. As mentioned above, a well-functioning supplier market is very important for achieving our rail ambitions. The Ministry of Transport is pleased that the Railway Agency is in dialogue with the industry to increase predictability. The Ministry of Transport is concerned that this dialogue continues to improve predictability and to encourage more entrepreneurs to participate in the renewal and development of the railways in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e878	I thank you for your answer. But I feel like something strange when the Council of State claims that this is openness, and that the market is working well, while in reality it is such that a combined entrepreneurial industry in Norway claims the opposite. We have to remember that the Railway Agency is the main player in the production of rail in Norway, and the development of this activity is important information for the development of the supply market. Then I have to ask: why is there no transparency about capacity development and efficiency in the railway system's own production, so that the supply market can actually adapt to demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e887	As I said, things are done to make contractors aware of what is available from possible future assignments, including ongoing assignments. The website I referred to was one of the measures, and there are also information meetings in cooperation with the State Road Administration on a more project-based basis. This should be reasonably well known to the industry. But I agree that a well-functioning supplier market will be crucial in the years to come for the railways to be renewed and further developed. The Ministry of Transport has also contacted the Railway Agency, no later than this December, to agree on new meetings, where it is possible to review the situation regarding the possibility of developing better cooperation with the supply market than today. The type of dialogue will continue beyond the first six months of next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e894	It is such that many contractors have been affected by partial cancellations of high contract prices from the Railway Agency in 2012 and 2013. Path service is one of several actors who have experienced this and for which there have been considerable consequences. Baneservice was chosen as the preferred provider of sewage treatment plant services in Norway in competition with six other international companies, where large volumes have been cancelled for 2011, 2012 and 2013. Why are important maintenance tasks determined by the Storting and delineated in the Railway Works Maintenance Programme not prioritised?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e901	With a maintenance budget of 2 billion. kr, adopted by Stortinget, which is one of the highest levels a maintenance budget has ever had in the Railway Agency, the Ministry of Transport does not find reason to review the professional assessments made by the Railway Agency of the tasks that need to be prioritised in order to achieve the most reliable operation and at the same time also time rail time. There, the Railway Agency has prioritised different actions next year, and some of the measures in which the Railway Service is involved are not prioritised at the same level. But, as I said, the department is going to have ongoing contact with the Railway Agency on the general market and the supplier side, and in particular on the situation related to the Railway Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e912	We're going to the Eastfold Railway and its eastern line: ‘The railway station informs that connection north of the Ski Station is not recommended and that the solution for this is a short mile south of Ski Station. It is important that the government in 2012 does not forget 60,000 inhabitants and their access to the new main track to Oslo. The project has already been planned for more than 10 years. Still, the spade is not stuck in the ground, nor for 2013. Can the Council of State ensure that Stortinget's assumptions regarding the connection of the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway are part of the new Follobane project?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e921	The eastern line of the Eastfold Railway connects today with the western line of the Ski Station. The work on new Ski Station does not change that: the Eastern Line is still to be connected to new Ski Station. This allows trains to run from and to the east on Follobanen from the time a new double track opens for traffic. The progress plan for Follobanen has been presented in the 2013 state budget. Construction start for Folloban is planned in 2014 and the project is therefore likely to be completed during 2019. The progress plan envisages a new and improved train offer in 2020. The Folloban will facilitate a significant improvement in train provision in the various markets in the South Corridor, including those travelling along the Eastern Line. I can assure the representative Schou that the government is concerned about the transport needs of those who travel to and from the inner east fold, and that trains to and from the east line will be able to use the Folloban from day one. The Ministry is aware that objections have been raised to the regulation plans for the new Ski Station and Follobanen respectively. The objections have been raised by a number of municipalities in Inner Eastfold and Eastfold County. The case is to be mediation at the County of Oslo and Akershus. I do not want to comment further on the objections now, but the department will of course follow this matter closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e932	Yes, the mediation meeting is scheduled for 11th or 15th, and I am well aware of the treatment in both the county and municipalities. I thank the Council of State for receiving the delegation from the county council and the municipalities in a meeting which has been rejected and postponed earlier, but which took place this week. The follo project has increased from 9 billion. DKK to 23 billion kr, and there are still new relationships. The challenge for these municipalities is that the entire Eastern Line was to connect this to the new Folloban and Follo project. The discussion has arisen because it was suddenly defined by the government's own body that it was not appropriate north of Ski Station, but south of Ski Station to get a plane-free connection. Of course, the ski station is a good place to go both off and on if you're going to switch trains, but the starting point here has been a plane-free connection. Can the State Council guarantee that this will happen either north or south of Ski Station?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e941	Firstly, I agree with the representative that Follobanen is an important but also complicated project, and that the costs of the project have increased significantly. Part of the reason is that this project is a project where not only a tunnel is to be built through the mountains, but it has to be connected well and carefully both to Oslo S and to new Ski Station. I can only assure the representative, Mr Schou, of what I said earlier, that the government is concerned about the issue of connection from the eastern line, that we want it to be the best possible transport offer for those who travel to and from Inner Eastfold, and that trains from the eastern line should be able to use the Folloban from day one. It is also important to point out that I think the meeting held in the department was a positive meeting. There was a lot of positive information, and I think we have a basis for a positive dialogue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e950	Then I think I'm going to wish the Council of State a happy Christmas with a good job, where the Eastern Line is secured a consequence selection investigation, and where you guarantee – as the Council of State is now doing – that the Eastern Line will be connected flat-free as part of the new Follo project, and that both options, north and south of Ski Station, will be kept open, so that you not only get stops and difficulties right at Ski Station, which I also heard from the Council of State when we had a budget debate in this room. I think it is important that the assumption underlying the objections of the municipalities – namely that they felt that the government, and therefore the Railway Agency, did not follow the planning process and the requirements of the law that the municipalities should be heard – does not constitute a basis for maintaining the objections, but that this is being resolved for the benefit of the citizens, and that it is done without plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e955	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish the representative Schou Christmas. Then I would like to stress that the goal of the government's work on the expansion of Folloban is also to ensure the best possible transport for those who come with the eastern line. There's absolutely no doubt about it. I experience the dialogue we have now entered into, as positive, and we will of course follow closely both the mediation processes that will take place at the County Council and the further dialogue and discussions with the municipalities in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e966	"We're on our way into Christmas. The last days before Christmas we know that there will be a travel concentration where the planes are fully booked, the trains full, and the roads busy. People go home for Christmas. This gives an extra vulnerable situation for many, depending on the fact that the public has done the job of securing enough capacity in travel services, but also, not least, on the emergency side. What has the Council of State done to ensure that capacity and preparedness are good enough, so that people can be sure that they will reach home in time for Christmas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e973	It's true, as the representative points out, Christmas and New Year's Eve are a very busy time, both on the road, on the road and in aviation. The transport modes and operators are all making an extra effort to ensure that people get home safely for Christmas, and preferably without any delay. Traffic settlement is, however, challenging with the large increase in the number of journeys that are constantly taking place during the Christmas holidays. The NSB increases the capacity of more than 20,000 extra seats on trains during the Christmas and New Year holidays. There are double seats set up on many departures on Bergensbanen and Sørlandsbanen. At Dovrebanen, Nordlandsbanen and Rørosbanen, Christmas and New Year weekend capacity has also been increased to meet demand. The state Road Service takes into account the high level of travel activity associated with Christmas and New Year's Weekend, and will have a standby as usual at the major exit weekends. In addition to this preparedness, preparations have also been made to strengthen manning if necessary. This includes the readiness for contact between the road traffic centres and the State Road Service building body and further to the contractors responsible for drilling, salting and littering, etc. The road system also places great emphasis on information to road users about traffic disruption and weather and traffic conditions. The state road service has a comprehensive media activity — including social media — to disseminate traffic information as quickly and as targeted as possible. A separate information package, especially for travellers on Christmas weekends, will be completed this week. There is also a great deal of attention in Avinor to good Christmas-trafficking. As in other heavy duty periods, scheduled maintenance is stopped on central infrastructure, such as: luggage facilities, lifts and escalators. There is close dialogue with all parties at airports and in air traffic services, and all actors report that they are well prepared for Christmas traffic this year. I am aware that there are some undiscovered air traffic guards in the East. But Avinor has assured us that there is no indication, however, that there will be any consequences for traffic management, as they expect to cover up those guards. What distinguishes Christmas traffic from other heavy traffic periods is that there is more baggage per passenger – there are several gifts to go home – and there is also greater uncertainty about weather conditions. This is reflected in the preparedness established for Christmas traffic. However, it is important to stress that difficult weather conditions could have an impact on traffic resolution as safety will always be a priority. Of course, this applies to all modes of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e988	I would like to thank you for your answer. I also take the opportunity to thank you on behalf of the many thousands who are on the trip in connection with the Christmas weekend. Then we just have to hope that the emergency measures that have been taken are correct and sufficient – it sounds good – so that everyone gets home safely and safely for Christmas. Actually, I don't have any follow-up questions, but I'd like to wish the Council of State a really good Christmas waiting, as it's called in the West, and add that I also hope that she will have quiet days and not have to work to deal with situations in Social Security Norway. Then I look forward to meeting in the New Year to new roofs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e995	I would also like to be allowed to wish the representative Halleraker Christmas. I also hope that, with the measures taken, we will be able to make sure that everyone who is going to and from Christmas holidays home in a sensible way. There are some different challenges on the road, track and aviation, but the floors are well prepared for what's ahead of us. Then we'll hope that it'll be a quiet and pleasant Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1011	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1025	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1032	Together with the wish for Christmas to the council also from me comes the following questions: ‘There is once again a focus on urban poor air in Bergen, and restrictions on road use are themes. In a recently published article, the Norwegian Institute for Air Research warns against date travel affecting both petrol and diesel cars. A diesel bus emits as much NO2 as 300 petrol cars. The mountains have an overburdened road network despite bombing that was introduced in 1986. The state must contribute more to the financing of better roads and better collective solutions in the major cities. The mountains need help more than whip. What is the level of government in the short and long term to help?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1044	In order to achieve a good urban environment and at the same time good accessibility, restrictive measures aimed at private car transport, combined with a better focus on public services and pedestrian and cycle routes, are necessary. The government has provided a number of instruments to improve local air quality in large cities, both sustainable measures and temporary measures. It's important to separate the two. Temporary measures are, of course, timely when air quality in large cities becomes very poor, especially in winter, while long-term measures are measures designed to change transport patterns over time. Measures of a lasting nature will have an impact on the annual average of NO2 and will contribute to the prevention and reduction of exceedances of the hourly average of NO2. Acute measures will have an effect on the hourly average of NO2. Meat pricing is the most efficient and accurate restrictive means of reducing NO2 emissions in cities. The main purpose of cow pricing is to regulate traffic in order to reduce local congestion and environmental problems in the urban area concerned. In a co-price system, fares can be designed much more flexibly according to the needs of the individual urban area than tolling as long as the purpose of the scheme is met. Purchasing with time- and environmental-differentiated rates will have a good effect because both traffic volumes, fleets and fleets will be affected. The current legislation on toll collection opens up the possibility of the use of permanent time-differentiated toll charging rates in urban areas. Current legislation requires a new proposal for the Storting if the tariff system of existing urban packages is to be converted on a permanent basis. The second paragraph of Section 7 of the Road Traffic Act also gives the State Road Administration and the municipalities the right to adopt temporary traffic regulation measures if conditions on the road or in its surroundings so require. In the past, the Ministry of Transport has clarified the local authority’s right to adopt temporary traffic regulation measures in the interests of the environment, i.e. emergency measures. The state road authority takes that kind of decision for the highway and the county road, while the municipality does it for the municipal road. It has now been the responsibility of the police to enforce restrictions relating to the type of emergency measures under Section 7 of the Road Traffic Act, but this autumn has a proposal to decriminalise such infringements and to allow the State Road Administration, in addition to the police, to impose a fee of NOK 1500 on a wide-ranging hearing. The consultation round refers to the agreement of the proposal and the proposal was adopted by the Council of State on 7 December. Date travel is another measure that municipalities can introduce under the second paragraph of Section 7 of the Road Traffic Act. I am familiar with NILU's assessment that date travel can have little effect, especially if the collective offer is reinforced by buses with large NO2 emissions on days of date driving. It is still true that cars at regular speeds emit much less NO2 than the cars that are waiting in the queue do. With the introduction of a date drive, you will have an effect by reducing the number of cars in the urban area, increasing the availability and thus also reducing the number of queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1081	Thanks for the answer. The propulsion party is concerned with durable solutions that can produce lasting effects. I record from the answer that here there is a lot of whip and a lot of extra bomb tax. I remember that among the many mountain peculiarities is also the fact that national highways, E16 and E39, pump road traffic into, to and through Bergen city. It underlines and reinforces the responsibility of the state. In the short term, there is a need for both improved collective services and better-performing collective services. The promotion party would like to have a change in the purchase of passenger transport by the state, that the funds should not only go to rail transport – and then we are mainly in Oslo – but also to public transport in general, so that cities with a lot of roads and a lot of buses, but little railway, also get state contributions, which can allow the replacement of diesel buses. How does the Council of State proceed to such a conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1086	I think it's important and necessary both with acute and more lasting measures in the big cities, because the big cities have two major challenges. One is to reduce car traffic and increase collective use on a sustainable basis in order to improve air quality in cities, the other is the acute situation that occurs especially in the winter half of a few days, which must be resolved there and then by cities. The government has tried to introduce provisions allowing cities to take action in both areas. I do not agree that there is a lot of whip in what the government has decided, because it is Bergen himself who has set the goal of reducing car traffic by 5 pst. What they choose to do is to a large extent up to Bergen himself, but they have set themselves the goal of reducing car traffic, and they have to do so. The State contributes over four years through the reward scheme, inter alia: With nearly one and a half billion dollars. NOK to Bergen to get a change in the transport pattern from car to collective.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1091	But since 1986, the mountains have had to contribute themselves to the development of the state’s own roads. It reminds me of a discharge when the Council of State thus disregards the fact that there are two national highways pumping traffic into Bergen. In the longer term, a modernised road network, ring road network, is needed and rail-based transport is needed in Bergen. There's work going on moving the freight port out of the Bergen center. It will contribute to better air. The likely location is near Flesland Airport. The railway undertaking's freight terminal is requested out of the Bergen centre of the municipality of Bergen. The railway system itself has pointed to Flesland in an opportunity study, but the work of getting out of the centre is going on a day-to-day train. The county rapporteur in Hordaland, in a letter dated 13 December of this year to the Council of State, asked for progress in the KVU work to get a logistics hub in Bergen. Will the Council of State help?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1096	The mountains have major air quality challenges and, of course, need a change in the transport pattern – there is no doubt about it. But I want to point out that there are also other cities that have large tribal roads that go through their areas, so there is nothing specific for Bergen. It also happens in Trondheim and Oslo, so there is a problem facing several big cities. The representative of Sortevik addresses a number of issues, both in his previous supplementary question and in this supplementary question, which he knows are really about the further treatment of the national transport plan. So this will give Stortinget the opportunity to discuss more closely when the national transport plan is submitted to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1108	‘The vehicle regulation was amended in 2008 under ECE Regulation 115 to require evidence from car manufacturers that the exhaust system is adapted to LPG gas operations in each car model before conversion can be approved. So this is not something that comes from the EU through the EEA Agreement. The change in regulations has made it very difficult to rebuild cars for gas operation. In contrast to, for example, Germany, why has Norway introduced this Regulation as a requirement, and how many of our neighbouring countries have done the same?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1115	The government is committed to facilitating an environmentally friendly vehicle park but is also concerned with safety on Norwegian roads and safety related to Norwegian vehicles. The conversion of a petrol-driven car into LPG operation could have a marginal positive impact on CO2 emissions, but it could affect the other environmental characteristics of the car and also safety. That type of conversion would therefore affect the responsibility of the car manufacturer in relation to the type-approval of the car. In order to meet such challenges, the Road Directorate has chosen to impose approval requirements under ECE Regulation 115. These provisions require adaptation of the requirements for conversion to each car model, inter alia: in order to ensure the proper installation of the fuel system, such that, inter alia, the risk of: gas leaks are minimised. Furthermore, those provisions shall ensure that emissions of substances such as NOx and hydrocarbon do not increase as a result of the conversion to LPG operations. Approval under the Regulation also means that responsibility for the safety and environmental regulations is transferred from the car manufacturer to the manufacturer of the conversion set. Before approval under Regulation 115 was introduced in 2008, we had a national legislation for conversion to LPG operations. It was based on a high degree of discretion of the approval authority and was not adapted to current safety and environmental requirements. For information I can show that in Sweden only conversion is accepted according to the current regulation. Denmark has more stringent requirements than those set out in the relevant Regulation, by requiring each vehicle to demonstrate compliance with the exhaust gas requirements even after conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1134	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Everyone agrees that both road safety and the environment are important to take into account when making these grips, and that is precisely why many want to switch to gas. It is about the fact that it is more environmentally friendly than the car would normally have been on. But it is also a fact that equipment that satisfies R115 is not necessarily of good quality and ensures low emissions over time. The largest and most recognised suppliers did not get this in place for all types of cars. The Council of State would like to stop the way we do it here in Norway and look at other countries, for example. Germany and France, and see if you can track down what they're doing? I think that whether you're German or French you're concerned with the road safety of the drivers driving on the road, and there's a strong desire to get even more of the car park on gas, because it's a very environmentally friendly and good fuel, and it works very well in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1143	Studies are preliminary to showing that LPG as a fuel has a potential to deliver about 10 pst. lower CO2 emissions than petrol in general. However, in order to exploit that potential, the fuelling system must also be adapted to the original engine management system. The government has no intention of easing this legislation as of today. We will continue to deal with this on the same line as our Nordic neighbours, until we may have evidence that it is relevant to move on to another system, which will be better, both road safety and environmental.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1153	It almost seems to me that the Council of State has just received something from some bureaucrats in the Road Directorate. I hear the Council of State is talking about 10 p.m. reduction. There are completely different sizes in the industry that say you want to reduce emissions by what the Council of State is now festering. With regard to road safety and the danger of explosions and the kind of thing, explosion is impossible – with the equipment used by Norwegian suppliers – with this idea to take care of and not least ensure road safety in the event of a possible collision or other types of thing. I really hope that the Council of State not only takes everything she clearly gets from some bureaucrats in the Road Directorate, for good fish, but actually also goes out and listens to those who have good competence in this, and who want to get into dialogue with the Council of State, but who do not reach and get to meet the Council of State and get to present their views. I really hope that the Council of State will look with more open eyes on the new year and accept those who want to come and talk to the Council of State, so that she might get a little more information about what this is actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1160	Of course, I refer to the professional advice given by professional bodies. It was just supposed to be missing if not every state council did. In this case, I see no reason to deviate from the professional advice, nor any reason to deviate from what is the standard in the Nordic countries, which is partly stricter than what we put on in Norway today. Denmark has stricter requirements for what needs to be documented than what we have in Norway today. I have no problems dealing with either the professional advice given or the regulations imposed by our Nordic neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1169	In the last Questionnaire and the last question, I have the honour and pleasure of asking the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘It seems that there is little interest from the government to contribute financially to the marking of the 100th anniversary of Alf Prøysen in 2014. Is not the popular Prøysen worthy of a mark equal to that of other cultural persons who have received such honor for their work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1178	I agree that the Prussian is popular and deserves a selection. Alf Prøysen's 100th anniversary will be well marked in 2014. It is not the Ministry of Culture itself that organizes the work when important authors are to be selected. It has entrusted the Ministry to the National Library, which allocates funds to various actions related to the marking of known persons. In 2012, the National Library participated in markings, among others. Torbjørn Egner and Peter Christen Asbjørnsen. This has been done in cooperation with other actors, for example: the zoo in Kristiansand, Cappelen Damm, Riksteatret, Egmont, the Norwegian Children's Book Institute, the National Theatre, the NRK, the National Museum and the People's Museum. It's the National Library that has the main archive after Alf Prøysen. It contains written material, notes, broadcast material and music. Based on this, the National Library will make an exhibition on Alf Prøysen in 2014. There will be organized events linked to the exhibition, and a poster exhibition will be produced, which will be sent to all the country's people's libraries. The National Library is in dialogue with various cooperation partners on several actions. It shall apply, inter alia, to: The Prøsenhuset and the successors to Alf Prøysen. The National Library is also part of the planning committee for marking in Hedmark. Finally, let me also note that the rewards of Hedmark County Museum have increased by 1 million. kr in 2013, just to mark the 100th anniversary of Alf Prøysen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1191	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I guess no other Norwegian cultural person has meant so much to most people. Alf Prøysen gave life, thoughts and hope for the future in a very nice and usual way. He used words and sentences that people understood and still understand. I think large parts of Norway's population have experienced Prøysen both as a child and as an adult and have enjoyed it very much. When I talk to those who want to work with this, for example. The Prøysenhuset and others who are close to it do not have the impression that there is any special help in connection with neither the preparation in 2013 nor the marking itself in 2014. There have been individuals, individuals, teams and organizations and relatively rich people, who want to be involved in marking this, just to show the meaning that Alf Prøysen has had. There we believe that the government and the state have not contributed enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1200	The state contributes here, just as we do in the selection of other well-known authors, for example. Owners and Asbjørnsen, as I said. We contribute through the National Library, which has been allocated several million dollars to work precisely on the marking of different authors, and we also contribute through funds to the Hedmark County Museum. I've registered the private engagement, and I would like to welcome it here, as I would like to welcome it in other areas. I thought it inconclusive is a positive thing when private wants to complement the public engagement. Although I share with the representative Bredvold his commitment to Alf Prøysen, I still see with a certain wonder how randomly a well what writer a committed to. One would think it happened a little bit according to the same principle as in "Showing dear jinters": Ein is too old, it can get standing. One's too young, it leaves us. And then you choose one as one ties a strong commitment to. The country’s commitment is broad for all major Norwegian authors, and it is primarily through the National Library.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1211	I thank the Council of State once again and at the same time I wish the Council of State a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year – and the same to the President. To the answer I got now: I'm really not satisfied enough. I believe that there is going to be some money and goodwill to mark the Prøysen in a worthy way. We have so-called fine culture, we have a broad culture, and we have culture for most people. Well, I guess that's where I've been engaged, because the Prøysen is for the most people. He is a person who has given of himself in his production of song, shows, stories, etc., etc. It's something that lives on. I hope Prøysen's works are not «door-out» in 2014, as 100 years have passed. I hope we're going to experience Prøysen for the next 100 years – and maybe another 100 years – because I think the Prøysen means so much to the society we live today, which is so full of stress and mass, the Internet and lots of games – including violent games – and one with the other. And then we have the proof on the other side, which gives us the popular love, what really gives us security in everyday life. That is what I want to achieve, and that is why I want the government to make a strong contribution here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1218	When the representative Bredvold says he is involved in the popular authors, I must point out that both Thorbjørn Egner and Asbjørnsen from Asbjørnsen and Moe are popular authors. It's hard to say that they belong to something fine-cultural, and they've been marked in the same way that one now wants to mark the anniversary of Prussia. I've assumed from the involvement of the representative, Bredvold, that he also wants a schoolmate to be involved, that one has wide selections about this. Then I would draw attention to the fact that one of them was working with the National Museum and the People's Museum at the Asbjørnsen marking, both on a hiking exhibition and on teaching arrangements. As the possibility of doing such things as the representative Bredvold calls for, is already there within the framework of the money given by the government to the National Library and to the Hedmark County Museum – and the commitment and goodwill that we share in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1223	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-19.ana.ud314e1236	There is no record. So the president wants the royal house, the government, the Stortinget, the press and everyone else who has their job here at Stortinget, a really good Christmas and a good new year. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
