ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e36	The formerly exempted alternate of the Eastfold County, Erlend Wiborg, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Akhtar Chaudhry on leave from 7 December to 10 December in order to take part as an observer of the election of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the election in Romania by the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth from 7 December until further notice Following a proposal from the President, the unanimous decision was taken: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland For Oslo: Mari Lund Arnem
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e71	Vararepr. Torcil Åmland and Mari Lund Arnem are present and will take the seat. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e96	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e107	At the beginning of 2013, it is partly a dark picture that characterizes parts of the world. The situation in Syria is locked up, and there is great fear that Assad will use chemical weapons. The Security Council is paralyzed and unable to press for policy solutions through, for example: penalties. The situation in Syria can help destabilise the whole region. The flow of refugees to neighbouring Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey has reached over 400,000, and the number of internally displaced persons is increasing. There are now nearly 1.5 million internally displaced persons in Syria. The Committee has just visited the Kilis refugee camp in Turkey, 5 km from the Syrian border. It's a big concern, when winter now stands at the door, for the tens of thousands who are on the Syrian side of the border, do not get across to Turkey or neighboring countries. They don't have shelter, they don't have food, they don't have fuel, and they don't have protection. They are very exposed to specific air attacks from the regime. It is important that Norway contributes humanitarianly to what we can to facilitate the situation of refugees both in Syria and in neighbouring countries. In Egypt, the situation is very tense. The people have again found the way to the Tahrir Square after President Morsi issued a decree that gave him more power at the same time as a new constitution was created very quickly, without the necessary balance in the Constitutional Commission. When the Arab Spring had its beginning, the Right stressed that it was a very joyful development. At the same time, we called for sober optimism. We had seen dictatorships fall, but still not seen real democracies rise. The challenges with the Constitutional Commission were one of the problems we discussed when the Committee was in Egypt in May 2011 – precisely the fear that a new constitution would be neither democratic nor adopted by a cross-section of the political parties. On November 29, the Palestinians went to the UN General Assembly and asked for upgraded status. They got it. The right has supported and supported the government's line of voting for such an upgrade, given the assumptions that upgraded status is not an alternative to negotiation, that Israel does not have to be delegated in any way and a clear distance from violence. The time of going to the general meeting can be discussed on a regular basis. However, when it was done, it was also important to contribute to Hamas’ not being further strengthened at the expense of Fatah by voting against the Palestinians’ use of a diplomatic instrument. In recent years, any move from both parties has gone beyond the negotiating table. But it is only at the negotiating table that the outstanding issues of borders, refugees, Jerusalem and security can be resolved. A two-state solution now works longer than in a very long time, but the situation cannot only be seen through Israeli-Palestinian glasses. It has to be a solution across the region. We continue to see European challenges of both an economic and a political nature. Fluid particles on both sides of the scale experience increased digestion. The human rights situation in Russia is steadily deteriorating, and so do we in Ukraine. Belarus is still a dark spot in our vicinity. The development budget on the right is 900 million. kr greater than the budget proposed by the government for 2012. When the 2012 budget was presented, the Minister for Development, Erik Solheim, said the following: ‘I am proud of yet another record budget for Norwegian development cooperation.’ So the right-hand option will be a further strengthening of a record high budget. We've chosen to invest especially in some areas where we're adding to the development budget: civil society, more specific girls, education and good governance get 120 million. Extra kroner. Human rights work is increased by 100 million. In addition to the government's proposals, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, will be increased by 70 million. kr – a completely necessary measure. Refugee flows are increasing, and the UNHCR reserves are running out. We're also strengthening the line of business development by 40 million. kr. We stand together with the Christian People's Party about a lot, and we have such a similar device in the fields of education, civil society and Africa, that we support the Christian People's Party's proposals within the framework of subsidiary. Africa is a continent with many possibilities. The importance of supporting under good governance in Africa as examples for other countries both on the African continent and elsewhere is not to be underestimated. The right is pleased that the government now adheres to the principle that we have been calling for for many years, that Norwegian support for multilateral organisations should be twisted and targeted, but we have to say that implementation is strange. UNICEF is one of the most effective organisations and works with, among others. girls and education. They now experience a cut. On the other hand, the ILO is demonstrably one of the least effective UN organisations and receives a large increase in the government budget. In terms of climate and forest activity, we're reducing growth by 750 million. kr. We believe that to be absolutely sound. For 2012, more than 2.7 billion has been allocated. NOK to this. But it's just 263 million. NOK paid out. So it's 9.7 pst. In addition, billions from 2011 remain unused in the account of Norway’s Bank. This is largely due to the lack of good projects, the difficulty of controlling projects, and corruption. Indonesia, for example, has been promised 400 million. kr. Only 2.8 million. kr has been paid. Greenpeace Indonesia said at the NRK on 26 November that they are not satisfied with the implementation of the Norwegian forest activity in Indonesia, and that the progress is very small. Most of the control bodies responsible for ensuring compliance with the content of the contract are not yet in operation. Greenpeace Indonesia believes that Norway must be a much stronger driver, and also more concrete. They warn that the extensive corruption in Indonesia could lead to a halt to the entire logging process. Against the background of a development budget of 900 million. kr higher than the government put forward in 2012 – it was said to be high-recorded – against the backbone of a strong commitment to girls, education, good governance, human rights work, business development and refugees, it is only sad that the Minister for Development, because he has no factual arguments, chooses to pave the way for the important debate on how we can best use over 30 billion. kr on development in poor countries. To the class struggle on October 9th, Eidsvoll Holmås said: «Now I'm going to say what I really mean. More children will die with the Right and Frps development policies, because they will not have access to vaccines. Many will also lose the possibility of education.’ Eidsvoll Holmås knows that this is not true. The right has not proposed a single cut in health-related assistance or vaccination programmes. On the contrary, we have focused on health care in particular through vaccine programmes. When we were in government, we doubled the education aid, and we still have the investment in all budgets after that. After all, it is Holmås’ own government that is responsible for health and education being the only two areas of aid that experience a partly drastic decline in the share of the aid budget. It is Holmås’ own government that has removed education from the list of priority areas in the aid. A debate as important as the one we have today deserves seriousness, and I think most expect a different level of debate from a Council of States. This is also a great opportunity to recognise the incredibly important and good work our soldiers do, both outdoors and at home. Many who are in international operations, perhaps especially in Afghanistan now, are doing an important job under difficult conditions. We are still heavily present in Afghanistan and are going to be there for a long time in the future, both civil and military. We have our special soldiers in Kabul, we'll send down a little bit of Telemark battalion to run police memorization, we have a tactical air element through the Hercules plane, and we're going to be heavy on this for a long time to come. Still, Norwegian soldiers will risk their lives on mission in Afghanistan. It requires our attention, it requires resources, and it requires adaptation. The period we are now entering – with an expected presidential election in Afghanistan in spring 2014 and associated rivalry, power use and unrest – is going to be demanding. Right will signal support for any continuation of Norwegian military missions beyond 2014 if necessary. As I said in the October throne debate, I think it was striking to record that the government's throne speech did not contain a single word about our soldiers' mission in Afghanistan. Nor did the Prime Minister spend any of his speaking time recognising the important job they are doing. 2013 is an important year. It is the beginning of new changes in the Defence – especially in the Air Force – according to the long-term plan. The battle lyan acquisition begins for real, and that's something the whole Storting has given its support to. From the Right, we have very high expectations for the upcoming personnel and competence message that the government has announced around the turn of the year. We address the most difficult problems in our alternative budget: lack of operational resources, manning situation, recruitment and standing time – both in the Maritime Defense and in the other defence sectors. We're strengthening the FLO. It is important at a time when investment is increasing. And we want to increase the level of compliance in Army departments that are currently understaffed. We provide increased preparedness – including in Defense: exercises, assemblage, helicopter capacity, special forces. We want home security that can actually solve military tasks, and that gets funds for exercises and equipment. We want a coastguard who gets the funds to sail. The challenge of describing reality around the actual state of defence continues. There are several challenges to that. One is the need for a real idea of what operational capability we have. It doesn't tell us so much that we have so many frigates and so many frigates or we have a modern air fight system. The question is what operational capacity the systems and capacities have. When the government also does its job to tell you that it's saying on all fronts, and nothing that's challenging, it's clear that the gap in the reality description between what's happening in the Department of Defense and what's happening in the Defense is just increasing. We have a expectation that the personnel and competence message must provide sustainable solutions that increase and maintain competence in Defence. But we also have a clear expectation of the government's future budgets having to do the same. Let me quote what the head of defense said in Annex 1 of the long-term plan from the government. The fact that the purchase of fighter aircraft is financed unless money outside the budget is requested by the chief of defence, he comments on the following: ‘This will, in the long term, make it difficult to continue supporting elements of the defence structure.’ He added: ‘This will require a significant increase in the level of the budget, and it is essential that this effort is followed up in the budgets of the coming years’. Our efforts in the 2013 budget include, inter alia: increase to Army of 120 million. SEK, Sea defence of 145 million. SEK, Air Force of 105 million. NOK 150 million. SEK 50 million and Coast Guard. kr. We're willing to pay for the government's decisions as opposed to themselves. We propose to strengthen the operational budget in the 2013 Defence Agency with a total of 616 million. kr. Overall, since 2008, we have proposed increases of 3.26 billion. kr. It would give greater operational ability, more practice and more training. Much is done for our veterans. Those who have been injured in service deserve both recognition and a support device that takes care of them. But there is also a lot to be done, and today is probably not the biggest challenge in the defence and defence follow-up of the veterans, but in the veterans' meeting with the civil auxiliaries – in particular the State pension fund, the Nav and the health services. Right wants to liberalise the requirement of proof for injured veterans for compensation of 65 G under the special compensation scheme. So we're going to add 50 million. kr extra in 2013. The current compensation system is inconclusive. It is perceived as unclear and messy, and it should be simplified, streamlined and assessed in addition to a type of service-based — i.e. non-replaced — remuneration, call it a kind of war pension. We went in to investigate such a scheme in the long-term plan. The draft budget for the next and regrouping proposals for this year clearly shows how the pressure from fighter aircraft against other investments will manifest itself in the future. This warned the Right against in the long-term plan so late in June. Lack of funding for fighter aircraft will affect the rest of the defence economy in the next few years. The government pays between 9.5 and 15.5 billion. kr less for fighter aircraft than requested by the chief of defence and it is expected to be covered by the ordinary defence budget for the next decade. The consequences have already been reported. In a reply to the Right on 19 October, it appears that, in order to create room for an increased payment to base-solution fighter aircraft, the entire project portfolio of the Defence has been reviewed. This means that many projects have been removed, many have been delayed and many have been reduced. So the total amount is going to be 11.7 billion. kr. Unfortunately, it is serious, and that is what we warned against as late as June.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e173	Does the representative wish to make any suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e176	Yes, I'm taking up the Right suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e181	The representative ine M. Eriksen Soreide has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e184	Norwegian foreign and security policy is to safeguard Norwegian interests, promote democracy and human rights and contribute to development in poor countries, especially where our efforts can make a difference. The budgets adopted today provide the external service, development actors and defence with the resources needed to meet these tasks properly in 2013. The security and foreign policy challenges have changed markedly in the last 20 years. Today, the economic crisis, especially here in Europe, threatens social stability and, in some countries, also democratic stability. Climate threats challenge the ability of the international community to agree on the necessary political decisions. The strong economic growth of many developing countries is changing the centre of gravity of the global power parallelogram. Religiously founded terror has replaced the military threat of the Cold War. This is also part of the back cover for the extensive conversion we have carried out in Defence. It has given us a modern response defense with top modern weapon platforms and equipment and a balance between structure, needs and resources. It has called for controversial political choices. Where the opposition reverted to the elections, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party showed implementing force. The next year’s defence budget is the start of the new long-term plan, where the renewal of structure and equipment continues. We are entering into the new long-term plan with a balance between structure and resources. We're paying for the defense we've decided we need. That the opposition wants to use even more, does not rock this fact. I notice that the structural changes that were adopted when the long-term plan was discussed are not being reversed. Now the Right Party and the Advance Party accept the solutions that were chosen. I think a lot of people noticed the decision-making parties showed up before the summer. We have helped NATO in its new strategy to place greater emphasis on the neighbourhoods. We have contributed to a new movement in disarmament, both in NATO and in the UN. We put in place the convention against class weapons. We are lifting the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. We cooperate more closely with our Nordic neighbours on Defence and on Security Policy. The Nordic region may also become a leading country in the case of ‘smart defence’. Our soldiers have made and are making a brilliant effort in Afghanistan for almost ten years. These are results to be proud of. The civil war in Syria, the situation in Iran, the development of Egypt, Libya, Tunis and the relationship between Israel and Palestine, are the most easily flammable conflict areas of our time and demanding solutions to. I want to commend the government for supporting the upgrade of Palestine's status in the UN. It was a proper and important recognition of the state-building work done on the West Bank. This must produce results for the Palestinians. The more alarming it is to see the unwise reaction of the Israeli government. Withholding Palestinian tax revenue and new settlements in the occupied territory are not only illegal international law, it is also unwise policy. This penal expedition is not the way to go to the security that Israel also deserves. So what does this have to do with next year's budget? This is why Norway can continue to play a role in this conflict, as head of the donor country group and through our development support to Palestine. In its draft budget, the Progress Party cuts the support for the Middle East and North Africa by 30 p.m. and in the allocation to the UN Organisation for Palestinian Refugees of close to 25 p.m. There is little help in making a comment saying that Norway is still going to have a strong commitment. These cuts would weaken our ability to make a difference in one of the most demanding areas of conflict of our time – not only in the conflict between Palestine and Israel, but also in terms of contributing to the democratic and economic development of important countries such as Egypt, a key country in this region. But the Progress Party does not believe that aid contributes to development in this area. But it's not just assistance The Progress Party doesn't believe in anything very much. They obviously do not believe that Norwegian foreign service can make a special difference, either, when they cut the Ministry of Foreign Affairs operating budget by 182 million. kr – there is more than 9 pst., closer to 10 pst., from the budget. Such a cut would at least not facilitate the fulfilment of the Party's emphasis on the importance of providing foreign stations with the necessary resources to safeguard the interests of Norwegian citizens in the event of unforeseen events and their location on the basis of assessments based on the needs of Norwegian citizens and on Norwegian strategic and economic interests, as they state in their comments. The development, not least in relation to the needs of Norwegian business in ever-increasing new markets, suggests that we should be present in several places in the years to come. It requires more resources, not less, and it requires new thinking, as we now see in Myanmar, where the Nordic countries are joining forces on an embassy. This we do more of also elsewhere – this is the way to go. It is nice that the driving force behind the liberation from Sweden in 1905 is not in the way of thinking about foreign service with our Swedish and Danish neighbours today! There is a broad consensus in this room about the importance of a well-organized world, where relations between countries are governed by agreements and conventions, i.e. by law and law, and not by economic power, but by military power. But this is being followed up differently in the budgets. It is agreed that the UN, which is the main international organisation in the world, must be relevant, effective and deliver results. We are turning the efforts of UN agencies that need to be better, to those who deliver well. The progress part and the right part prefer to just use the whip and the kites. The greatest difference between government policy and the Right and the Progressive Party lies in development policy. There is also a great deal of consensus: that aid is only part of a coherent development policy, that it is important to bring developing countries into the global economy through trade, and that economic growth is the key to poor countries entering the good circle, creating jobs, economic growth and social development. The most important new thing in this year’s setting is that the Right Carcases 1pst. goal. The fig leaf is that the results are more important than how much is used. Yes, results are important, of course. However, ensuring that aid delivers results is not a contradiction to how much we are willing to spend on poverty reduction. Good development policies also produce better results when we use more than if we use less, and it reaches more when we use more. When the Right Carcases 1-pst. goal is probably the real reason that they want to find room for action in order to fulfill promises they believe is more important, such as removing the wealth tax for Norway's richest, while there are some of the efforts to approach the Progress Party politically. On the right, aid will concentrate on fewer countries. They're cutting countries all the way out of South America. This means, among other things: Norway will have to complete human rights projects and clean energy projects in countries such as Guatemala and Haiti, while saying that the party will raise the fight for human rights in its development policy. At least this is not a coherent policy. When Højre’s aid policy spokesperson presented Højre’s reorientation of development policy in the evening post on 25 October this year, he said that the number of countries receiving Norwegian aid should decrease from around the present day. 112 to between 20 and 40. The lot should specify how this is to be done. Should our contributions to international organisations, which are within many countries, be cut off or earmarked for specific countries? UNICEF is e.g. in well over 100 countries. What about Norwegian voluntary development organisations? During the budgetary hearing, we heard that Digni, the Norwegian government's development work, is within 40 different countries. What will Right Concentration Policy mean for the work of Norwegian aid organisations? It should be clarified. It is good to have the objective of concentrating assistance on fewer countries, but as far down as it goes between 20 and 40, it is also necessary to clarify how to achieve this without imposing very narrow limits on the work of Norwegian non-governmental organisations and using international aid channels. Another important distinction lies in the view of policy on distribution. We are now seeing a development in which the economy in many developing countries is growing, but where the distribution is very distorted. There are millions of poor people in countries moving into the middle income group. Therefore, good distribution policies are an important part of development policy, even of a development model that will deliver better results. Because everyone's being drawn, the growth is getting higher. It is particularly important for women to be involved. Here, too, the Progress Party is showing its skepticism towards fair distribution. They don't think assistance is suitable to promote it. Well, the Norwegian model, the Norwegian social-democratic model, is very suitable for keeping up as a good model for development. So many countries will learn from our oil policy and our fisheries policy, they can learn much from our distribution policy. There has traditionally been a broad consensus on important main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy. That's still the case. But at the same time, we see that the Right in Development Policy wants to approach the Progress Party. Therefore, this setting shows that there will be a clear difference between the red-green government and a blue-blue government with the Right and the Advance Party. There will be fewer sharing and fewer Norwegian aid to eradicate poverty if that policy is put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e241	Major changes occur, and will increasingly occur in the Arctic. Although maritime traffic through the northern sea routes is currently of limited character, the increase in traffic has become high in a very short time. Interests from countries and shipping companies are noticeable. The search for new petroleum resources is well under way and the area is additionally full of important minerals. At the same time, it is vulnerable, has poorly developed infrastructure and is relatively small in population. This also presents us with significant political challenges, both internationally and nationally. The follow-up to the Northern Territory Communication is essential for the government’s ability to deliver in line with the expectations created. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the coordinating department, has a special responsibility for the follow-up in line with the government's own and Storting's assumptions and wishes. Many of the challenges and opportunities facing us in the northern regions need to be solved in cooperation with more. Nordic cooperation should be particularly good to address aspects of this. Infrastructure development in the North Calotene, not least to serve the ever-growing mineral industry, is such an area that requires cooperation. Many exciting projects are launched, very few are realized. Preparedness, search and rescue is another area that must be resolved jointly. The objectives of the agreements must be not only to clarify responsibilities but also to contribute to better capacity and a safer situation. Today’s search and rescue capacity in the Norwegian part of the Barents Sea and the Arctic Sea is relatively limited and vulnerable. Substantial is the need to think strategically about future oil protection. This is about competence, technology and new infrastructure. The development we are now seeing using the northern sea route is interesting and has enormous potential. No matter which route you choose from Europe to Asia, Norway and Norwegian waters are strategically located. This leads to heavy responsibilities, but also opportunities. There will be a need for a completely different infrastructure from today to serve the increasing traffic. Here we already see neighbouring countries, like Iceland, positioning themselves. We also need to clarify what our opportunities and interests are. This requires overall strategic cooperation between local, regional and national authorities, but also allows us to look at land and sea boundaries in order to provide the industry with comprehensive solutions. Russia is a constant factor in Norwegian foreign policy. We can't choose to relate to one of our neighbouring countries. We can be both acquitted and angry about certain conditions in Russia, and we are going to discuss this openly with the Russian authorities, but in parallel we are going to pursue practical cooperation, a cooperation that is good in many areas. We will encourage stronger contacts in all ways, and the developments we have seen in recent years, with a record number of Russian students in Norway, are positive. We also need to work to get more Norwegian students to take part of the studies in Russia. There are a number of practical problems in this regard, but we must try to do something with these, in cooperation with Russia. The alternative to cooperation with Russia does not exist. When Finland now issues a record high number of visas to Russians, it is an expression that Finland thinks offensively. We have previously asked Norway to consider following in Finland’s footsteps and to have similar practices for visa applications. When it comes to the defense, I will focus on a few aspects in this session. We all agree on the important role of the Coast Guard. In order for the Coast Guard to continue to deliver at the desired level, we need to be able to provide a framework for this service meeting the challenges. With the already mentioned developments in the Arctic, the resources and opportunities of the Coast Guard must also be adapted to this reality. We point out in the position that there are challenges related to the Coast Guard budget, and we ask questions about the possibility of maintaining the number of days sailing. In the case of increased activity at sea, the trend in sailing days should have been positive. In addition, it becomes difficult to provide a full service when we experience – as we did a few weeks ago – that about half of the Coast Guard's vessels were at berth with damage or were in for maintenance. We see that we are becoming very vulnerable in such situations. Lack of competence and unwanted flight of personnel from the Maritime Defense Agency have gradually become a serious situation, which obviously must call for action and action that can reverse development. It's no use that we're all socially despondent. No one has argued that the Maritime Defense should play a smaller role than today in national and international missions, rather the opposite. At the same time, there is a development that means that the Maritime Defense is not able to deliver anything in the vicinity of what is intended. Our total increase in the defence budget is 1 billion. kr. Before I go on, I want to take the opportunity to give tribute to all those who have done and carry out a demanding mission in Afghanistan, both civil and military. Now that we see an end to a greater international military involvement in Afghanistan, it is important that we continue to engage in the development of the country and that we adapt our support to the situation of the country. But when that is said, it is important that experience from the last few years is used as the basis for future engagement. There have not only been trips. There is therefore every reason to have a very critical look at all parts of our commitment and try to learn from mistakes. The international community is obliged to establish its cooperation so that it does not contribute to corruption and mismanagement and that it does not close its eyes to abuse. In addition, I feel the need to point out that too long the neighbouring country of Afghanistan has neglected its role in building peace, often with fatal consequences for themselves and for the security of the whole region. We have had plenty of opportunity to discuss trade here in Stortinget over the past few weeks. It is unnecessary to repeat arguments, but some aspects have been mentioned to a lesser extent. One is how coherent Norwegian policies towards developing countries are in relation to trade in agricultural products. I take note that you choose the import protection you do, and that you also have the right to do so. Nevertheless, I would have liked at least to say that this would make Norwegian policy less coherent — even inappropriate — as is also noted internationally when evaluating Norway’s overall policy towards developing countries. As you get older and a little less slippery, there's a need to reflect more. My reflection on trade and trade is that the main problem for many poor countries is not Norwegian import protection alone. Now it must not be used as an excuse for not liberalising, but the main problem is all the obstacles between poor countries in the same region, preventing effective trade south-south. It is about reducing customs tariffs, removing unnecessary bureaucracy, combating corruption and facilitating customs and border procedures. It is striking that when you travel between countries, for example. Africa and having to cross a border may be miles of truck queues waiting to pass through. This is costly and, in several cases, devastating for the products that you want to obtain from the consumer. The Progress Party therefore wants trade to become an area in which we can help countries that want it to simplify their rules and open up more. Increasing trade between neighbouring countries is also stabilising for a region. It will create a greater degree of interdependence. Some of the success of peace in Europe over the last decade, namely an integrated market, should be able to be exported for the benefit of others. Unfortunately, free trade agreements have come to be. I say, unfortunately, for a global trade agreement that removed the need would have been preferable. However, when there is a clear need to secure their markets, it is important that Norway actively continues to set up new agreements. The agreement with Russia will be important, and we must seek to get it into port. An agreement with China is naturally desirable, and we hope it will soon be possible to restart these negotiations. As I mentioned in the debate on the European political presentation, the EU is working to reach a possible trade agreement with the United States. Here it is important that Norway and EFTA follow along and make sure that we are not being evicted. It is about securing Norwegian export-oriented jobs. We use some space in the budgetary position to promote our own policies and criticisms where we think it is necessary. One such area is the forest effort. We record that our critical tone does not meet general enthusiasm. However, I would like to state that all our criticisms are based on research and professionalism. Our criticism is not aimed at logging – we think that is actually reasonable – but we choose to be critical of the size of the bet and the pace. We are often accused in other contexts of being uncritical of the use of large sums of money and of not basing ourselves on research, so I have little understanding that caution in this context is going to be so problematic. Sometimes – and also this autumn – we experience some strong words about our development budget, and sometimes so far that questions are asked about the empathetic abilities of the Progress Party. You have to be very sure of your own excellence and your own solutions to claim that other politicians have a lower value base than yourself. I've never been so safe on myself, and I hope I never will. When we present a development budget of approx. 0.75 pst. by GNI, which is well above the Monterey objective, it is an expression that we are trying, to the best of our ability, to use assistance where it can have an effect, where it promotes the fight against poverty. Then we combine it with our trade proposals, which are about far more than weakening Norwegian import protection. We combine that with a closer integration of the private sector into development. And then we use 10 billion in the first place. kr of the State pension fund abroad to invest targetedly in the poorest countries. Then I would argue that our device in this area is very good and is adapted to the challenges facing the poorest countries. What we're doing is trying to get the best out of the aid, combined with instruments that have clearly proved to work, because it's not like just a country gets enough help, the poverty problem is solved. Unfortunately, the more a country becomes dependent on assistance, the more difficult it is to get out of this addiction. Today’s policy, with continued focus on aid that is essentially beneficial to developing countries and little willingness to integrate these countries into both trade and investment portfolios, reinforces the distinctions between north and south. I thought the opposite was the goal. Our goal is real development and that in a few years we can start talking about an exit strategy – not exit for trade and investment, but exit for assistance. Because it's never talked about that we're going to end up with aid to Africa, it seems to have an eternity perspective over it. We want to establish a policy in which we make our aid exposure redundant. If we're to do that, we need to be able to think new, learn from our mistakes, see what works – and do more of it. A few words about a few topical questions: The situation in Egypt is mildly demanding. President Morsi, on the one hand, has shown what many believe is international statesman art, but on the other hand many Egyptians experience that he is about to put democracy aside. In the past, Norway has taken self-criticism for not being critical enough to violate human rights by the former regime in Egypt. We will warn against having an inevitable line against the new rulers of Egypt. Of course, they should not be depreciated because they are out of Muslim brotherhood. They have to be judged for their actions and what they actually do. However, although Norway has previously chosen a rosy line to Morsi and his government, it does not prevent Norway from coming up with criticism when it is prescribed. So to the very serious situation in Syria, we've been following the line of the Norwegian government in general. But when we with the Red Children as a source are told that children are bound in rolling tanks like live shields, we are witness to abuse of the worst variety. This is just one example of many of the last few weeks. Then we have a situation where we are willing to be with and discuss highly a more offensive policy of regime change. The question now is whether the opposition is more united than before and that the regime is so weakened that it is possible to assess measures that previously seemed totally unrealistic. So a few words about UN treatment in connection with the Palestinian resolution, to which we had a different attitude. I would point out that we believe we had good reasons for that. We record the positive wording of the resolution and take it with us when the picture is to be completed. But not least, it is important to get negotiating willingness on the Israeli side, and getting the Americans dedicated to joining the process all the way is important. We don't think what happened in New York this time contributed to it. That being said, we agree that it does not give Israel the right to take the kind of action that has now been announced. We are also quite clear about that, and we will not fail to criticize Israel when necessary. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e300	The representative of Morten Højlund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e303	Initially, I will also give a tribute to Norwegian veterans. I'm proud that we have so many people who are willing to sacrifice their security and their lives for Norway. It is to a large extent my generation that has served and served in Afghanistan. I know even more people who have served. When 8 000 Northmen have come and come home from Afghanistan, it not only presupposes that we have arrangements and the formal things we often discuss in this Chamber, in place, but it also requires an understanding and recognition of the realities of the war, in the public and among all Norwegian parties. I hope we can all contribute to that. In the last ten years, very many countries have taken a step towards democracy, and many people have been promised out of poverty. But very much remains before the world is a safe and fair place for everyone. In the wake of the Arab Spring, a tragic civil war has erupted in Syria, where the extreme violence of the Assad regime and struggles throughout the country has led hundreds of thousands of people fleeing. I also saw Redd Barna's play today and I'm shaken by what I saw. Armed conflicts continue to destroy millions of human lives, and there is not always an easy answer for the world community on how to stop the use of violence, either in the Congo, where M23 is closest to being free, or elsewhere. It is not just war that hinders the freedom and security of all the peoples of the world. With the economic crisis in Europe, we have had a much closer meeting with the price of inequality than Western countries may have been accustomed to. We see the consequences of gross misalignment and loose capitalism, namely that there are ordinary people who have to pay the price. There are huge wage cuts, weakened pensions, massive unemployment and a spiral to the bottom, with cuts that make it harder to get the wheels back on. We shouldn't think that it's just the oil that makes us do well in Norway through the crisis so far. It's also because we've built a society where distribution is a goal in itself. High participation rates for women, high levels of employment and strong trade union movements are some of the most important prerequisites for our prosperity in Norway. Because there are enough countries in the world that are very rich in natural resources but still have a poor population and an unfair, corrupt social system. Economic growth is not alone enough for good development. That is why we very much look forward to the Minister for Development presenting his statement of distribution for development policy. There will be distribution, equality, the fight against corruption and tax havens and the work of a strong civil society and trade union movement at the centre. This contrasts with the development policy of the right-hand side, where the cuts in our projects in almost all countries other than Africa are directly alarming. The right-wing proposed removal of the 1 pst objective of assistance, the narrow definition of development and the large-scale cut in civil society is an obvious approach to the Progress Party and bad news for Norwegian development policy. Last week Norway voted for the upgraded status of Palestine in the United Nations. This is fully in line with Norway's support for the Palestinian state-building project. Then two parties in Norway, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, chose to sit down with Canada, the United States. The Czech Republic, the Marshall Islands, Palau, Nauru, Panama and Micronesia, towards an overwhelming majority of the world's countries. I am very pleased that the Right ended up on the red-green line, but I am concerned that a possible bourgeois government will destroy Norway's role towards the Palestinians and the Israelis in the Middle East, with uncritical support for Israel's occupation and settlement policy and an isolation line towards Palestine that is not suitable for anything other than strengthening extreme environments and weakening the hope of a peaceful and fair negotiated solution and a free, Palestinian state. Foreign policy is not only about Norwegian interests and policies, but also about writing history. At our elections on the international arena, we're putting ourselves in the history of the world. With the doubling of the assistance, we have placed ourselves on the right side of the story. When we tighten the arms export code and strengthen our efforts against nuclear weapons, we are placed on the right side of world history. Our vote in the UN, for example. for the sexual and reproductive rights of women, or for the Palestinians, place us on the right side of history. The sum of the citizens' proposals in the Chamber, the media performance of citizens and the experience of foreign policy from the last time the bourgeois ruled, question whether we will continue to be equally proud of Norway's role internationally in a change of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e322	We're in a political break-up. The Western world has appeared for many years to be stable and leading, but the financial crisis, as we have seen in recent years, is causing unrest, and developments in many hard hit countries are coming to an end. Foreign policy is challenging, and the consequences for those affected are dramatic. The contrast between the cuts made by the countries of southern Europe in their budgets and our own government budget, which is increased by 23 billion. kr, is striking. We have been given such an opportunity through forward-looking political decisions and the long-term balance of economic policy. There are no coincidences that give us the opportunity to increase the defence budget by about $1.7 billion. kr, or that the aid budget is now 30,2 billion. kr. Our financial freedom must continue to be managed wisely, through clear priorities. The State budget also makes major and significant changes that do not have significant budgetary implications. Of course, I am talking about the conversion of customs duties on certain agricultural products from a dollar to a percentage duty. It is the government’s duty to support Norwegian business by using the space for action that both the WTO Agreement and the EEA Agreement involve. Norway has this possibility because we have said no to join the European Union, and there is still a sunny majority in the people for us to stand outside. The centre party is in favour of a regulated trade policy, and of course we are dealing with existing agreements such as the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement. The Defence Budget reinforces all areas of defence, Home Affairs, Intelligence and National Security Authority. The consequence of this is that it facilitates increased operational activity, more practice and training, new and more modern material and enhanced preparedness and presence. We, in the Central Party, too, are ringing around our soldiers and the civilians involved in difficult operations in Afghanistan. As far as the budget is concerned, I would like to highlight in particular the strengthening of Home Affairs in order to ensure better trained departments with increased operational capacity. Home security is today the only part of the defense that has a presence in the whole country, and is also the part of the defense that most people have a relationship with during their lives. The relevance of HV, both practical in crisis situations and symbolic in everyday life, must not and must not be underestimated. I think it is gratifying that, in the committee's consideration of the defence budget, the appropriations for the Voluntary Sniper Service will also be increased. The DFS has a number of societal roles through its contribution to maintaining defence will in a broad range of people and to developing knowledge and healthy attitudes to weapons use. The setting signals the start of a work to find a more sustainable solution for DFS in the future. I believe that this is necessary to ensure the stability and the possibility of further development of the organisation. Norway’s sound economic position in the world gives us the opportunity to continue to pursue an offensive aid policy – even this year we are meeting the objective of a budget of 1 pst. by the State budget. An increasingly important part of aid policy is food security and nutrition. These are growing global challenges, and I think it is a defeat that we are not able to distribute resources between us in a better way. Therefore, people die of hunger, while others die of abundance. There is a need to increase food production globally, but it needs to be done in a sustainable and climate-resilient way. Today, Norway is nearly 1 billion. kr annually for various measures in the field of food safety. The new food security strategy provides for an increase in this aid of 500 million. kr over a period of three years. 200 million. kr of this increase has been proposed in the 2013 budget. For the sake of order: I use the opportunity to stress that there is no conflict between customs protection as an important part of Norwegian agricultural policy and the possibility of increasing food production in developing countries. To the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right, I would like to stress that there will be no more trade with developing countries because the EU will be given lower tariff barriers to the Norwegian market. Our position on the right and duty of each country to food production is about solidarity and to contribute in a world where too many hungers. Long-term food preparedness is also a common good for us by taking care of and developing national production equipment, whether in Norway or in developing countries. This policy can well be combined with incentives to trade with other countries. Finally, Norway is offensively targeting forests in the south of climate policy, and we have good results, but let me also remind you that active forest policy in the north is important for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e357	This year, too, there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of foreign policy. It's a force for Norway. The accession of the United Nations and international law is important in order to promote international cooperation and peace. Military technological developments make it even more clear that small countries need to seek defence solutions in wider alliances. NATO membership provides Norway with security. In Europe, we have a wide network of cooperation organisations. Cooperation with the EU, based on the EEA Agreement, continues to work well, even at times when the euro zone is shaken by serious crises. These main lines are also reflected in the external budget, on which there is broad agreement. The Christian People's Party supports the main lines of the defence long-term plan. What we committed ourselves to there, we must follow up in budgetary terms. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the government's proposals for the 2013 defence budget, but in our alternative state budget we have proposed some additions to strengthen some defence purposes. Let me mention three items: The Christian People's Party will strengthen the preparedness for terrorism. That's why we proposed 50 million. more to increase convergence between the police and the defence, and in particular the area forces of the Home Office. We also totally opposed the government's cut in support of the Voluntary Sniper Service. Some of the cut has been removed during the Storting's treatment of the budget, but unfortunately not all. And we want to increase the support of our veterans from international operations. Those who labor with tendon damage deserve better follow-up. It can prevent serious traumas and personal tragedies. Here, society must take greater responsibility. Let me go a little bit more into some aspects of development policy. The fight to combat poverty and poverty remains a key challenge in international policy. In the aid budget, we see the same main features year after year. The Christian People's Party proposes a higher effort than the government, while the Progress Party also proposes for next year to cut close to 10 billion. kr. Developments over the last few years show that the government stepped up the share of the aid budget in Norway’s gross national income up to 2010, but since then the level has fallen to 1pst. of GNI, while the climate and forest activity are increasing. In the Christian People's Party's alternative budget for 2013, we therefore proposed a higher assistance framework than the government, and we proposed a significant re-priority to strengthen the special effort to ensure schooling for all children. We are now doing the same in the handling of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget. We have not got a majority solution with the government parties this time. But we are pleased to note that the Right in the treatment of the trade budget is with the Christian People's Party on our main redistribution proposals. I interpret that as an express will from the Right to find good cooperation solutions, as we have also done in the government position before. Let me summarise some of the main points of our draft development budget: The Christian People's Party proposes about 250 million. kr more than the Government of Education Assistance in the 2013 aid budget. It's a clear signal that we want to reverse the negative trend in the first six years of the red-green government. However, I am pleased that the new Minister for Development, Heikki Holmås, has said more positively about investing in education and sharing in development policy. If words are followed by action, it will in turn bring the government's course closer to the Christian People's Party's development policy. But it remains to be seen. In the 2013 draft budget, the Christian People's Party opposes the government's proposal to cut 50 million. kr in the support for education assistance through the UN Children’s Fund, UNICEF. In addition, the Christian People's Party will strengthen the allocation to the Global Partnership for Education of 50 million. kr. And we are proposing marked increases in the budget chapters for Africa and for non-governmental organisations, so that education aid is increased by a quarter of a billion dollars in total. The Christian People's Party is also proposing a stronger effort for food production and food security next year, which is important to prevent new famines and emergencies. A third bet area for us is health. We will invest more than the government on health assistance in the regional allocation to Africa, and we will increase Norway's support for the fight against tropical diseases. It is a heavy health burden in many poor countries. These additions are in addition to stepping up Norway’s support for the GAVI vaccine alliance, which is behind a unanimous increase. GAVI has shown the ability to innovate, succeeded in mobilizing more money and saving millions of lives. It is not surprising that GAVI tops international rankings for effective assistance. We can be proud that the organisation's board is led by Dagfinn Høybräten and the solid cross-political uprising we have in Norway about GAVI. This is assistance as a utility. Let me also stress that the Christian People's Party will have a strong priority for sub-Saharan Africa, the world's poorest continent, in Norway's development cooperation. That too has been followed up by the Christian People's Party every year in its alternative budgets. The Christian People's Party was an impulsive force when in its time it was able to put aside money in addition to the development aid for a Norwegian climate and rain forest bet. The appropriations for this have increased significantly since 2010, but unfortunately the share of gross national income in the assistance framework has decreased at the same time. During the budgetary procedure in the autumn, the Ministry confirmed that nearly 2 million. kr of the funds for the rainforest setting in Brazil were not used in 2011. The money remained in the account of Norway's Bank. They were not transferred to development. Where appropriations are larger than those payable, the Storting may redeploy unused funds for other priority assistance purposes during the financial year. We are therefore critical that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has instead tried to put pressure on the OECD Development Committee to get the amount approved as actually transferred, contrary to the OECD rules on actual transfers. Our advice is clear: Support the OECD's efforts to keep clear rules, avoid eroding OECD legislation. If there's a dilution of the code, we know who's going to be the biggest losers. These are the poor countries. In order to bring the appropriations and consumption more into line, the Christian People's Party will reduce the allocation of climate and forest spending in the budget and compensate for this by increasing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' commitment authority for the same budget chapter accordingly. This will make the budget more realistic. At the same time, the level of ambition for the rainforest is kept up. I would like to refer to the common draft budget for the framework area 4, the aid budget, on which the Right and Christian People's Party stands together in the vote. Let me end by saying that the Christian People's Party will support some of the verbal proposals that the Right and the Advance Party are presenting. This concerns the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3, the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, as well as the three Middle East-related proposals Nos 13, 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e403	The government wants to pursue a foreign policy that respects Norwegian interests and Norwegian values in a good way, where we need to be clear, predictable and responsible. It's wrong, as some claim, that you can choose interests at the expense of values. It is in our own interest that we live in a predictable international society. It's not either – or it's related. When we support a UN-led world order, we also support the basis of the law of the sea. What we live on in this country is largely below, in or above the sea, and we have a direct self-interest in the fact that other countries also respect the basic driving rules in which we invest through the principle of a United Nations-led world order and great faith in international law. We must take care of our interests in our neighbourhoods and globally. I am proud to belong to a government that has both the ability to grant and to prioritise within the appropriations. We get considerable praise and positive attention in the NATO alliance, both for a large defence budget and to go all the way ahead in making choices and dry to prioritize. I am proud that we have a solid aid budget, that we also maintain it when GDP increases – but at the same time we are able to prioritise the money where they are most useful. We are putting heavy emphasis on human rights, we are putting heavy emphasis on issues such as global health, and we are putting heavy emphasis on security in this budget. The largest investment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' area in the budget is the work around the northern regions. We have submitted a budget with the largest North Sea effort ever. In total, we're going to spend just up to 2 billion dollars. kr on concrete north-eastern actions, including new research ships, BarentsWatch, North District Centre in Bodø, new technology building in Tromsø, an emergency warning system at the main rescue centre in Bodø, new study sites, etc. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the coordinating department has arranged for a massive investment in line with the government's platform, which says that the northern regions are Norway's most important strategic investment area in the coming years. There, too, it is important to be able to prioritise and set clear objectives. This effort has been a great success already. We have created a significantly clearer and significantly better international framework for work in the north, not least through the strong effort to strengthen institutions such as the Arctic Council and by stressing that contentious areas are to be resolved through active use of the institutions of the Law of the Sea. More and more areas will be solved. We solved our outstanding issues with Russia two years ago. A week ago, Denmark and Canada agreed on a similar disputed area in what is called the Lincoln Sea. This work is moving forward. That's very good. We put it heavily on the agenda last week when I was in the NATO Council and gave a thorough briefing on developments in the north, the strategic opportunities and the strategic challenges we see there. At home, we focus on building on knowledge, value creation – including the mineral industry – security, preparedness and rescue within the framework conditions that are now being created. This is important, and that effort has been consistent throughout the working time of this government and continues through this budget. In other areas, too, we focus more on nutrition promotion and on support via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs outdoors to promote the interests of Norwegian business internationally, both in the neighbourhoods and further away. We need money to operate the embassies. So the proposals that, in particular, the Advancement Party, but also the Right, in some ways, propose cuts in the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will lead to fewer places in the world. Many of the cuts are designed so that fewer sites in the Euro-Atlantic region and in other countries are not on the aid side. I think that is very unfortunate, even in relation to the work on caring for Norwegian interests in a changing world. We are pursuing an active European policy, and we have had a number of recent occasions to discuss this in Stortinget. Let me underline the more budgetary aspects of that. There is a significant increase in our contributions through EEA funds, 772 million. kr up – it's 68 pst. increase. This is a lot of money, but that's right because Norway makes a good contribution to the internal market. It is reasonable that we then take our part in financing the common challenges we have in the European space. We spend a good part of this money supporting civil society, human rights work and supporting organisations that work for minorities. We are doing so in a Europe that is increasingly in economic crisis, where the pursuit of scapegoats is under way, and where we see that unemployment is breaking down, with the social and political consequences it has. The government is putting heavy emphasis on the work of human rights, and it is a significant effort: 30 pst. by the entry on human rights. For example, representatives of the opposition are present. Right, that they want to increase the work of human rights more than this. I'm pleased with the commitment, but I want to state that the net effect of the Right Budget is a cut in the work on human rights. To take the Latin America post alone, half of the money we spend in Latin America, the regional allocation, goes directly to human rights measures. The whole of that appropriation is to be cut. That's 200 million. SEK – half is 100 million. kr. This alone balances the whole increase in the human rights chapter. That's how I could keep going with other regions. So there's a serious cut in the work on human rights in the draft budget that the Right is in favour of, even though it seems to be a bet. It worries me, because I believe that we see new challenges and new issues related to the maintenance of human rights both in our own region and globally. To emphasize this even a little bit more, let me just mention that for Latin America, our support for the Inter-American Human Rights Court would end, the Center for Justice and International Law, which works in Latin America up against victims of human rights violations, would have to be cut off, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in Panama would have to be cut off, and extensive support for training and legal work in countries like Ecuador and Bolivia would end, and there is only one region. Then I'll say a little about the Middle East. First, I would like to say that I am pleased with the broad consensus on Norwegian Middle East policy. I am both pleased with the support, which Right now repeated at the representative Eriksen Soreide, to the vote for Palestine, and I will acknowledge the clarification we received from the Progress Party at Morten Höglund that, although they disagreed with the vote, they agree with many of the main features of what is happening in Israel-Palestine work. I can really join in everything that was said, also the importance of being too clear to speak up to the new authorities in Egypt. I can assure the representative, Mr Höglund, that we are doing so, both in public and in our direct dialogue, which is now quite close, comprehensive and daily against Mursi and his regime. This is a very difficult situation for Egypt, and there is reason to urge all parties to moderation, both the new rulers and those who support institutions that are left in the old regime, and who are actually trying in a rather undemocratic way to undermine the democratic upheaval that is taking place – it is problematic in both sides. What concerns me in the Middle East area, when there is a consensus on the policy, is that the Progress Party is going in to cut 30 pst. in the Middle East and 25 pst. in the allocation to UNRWA. This means that Norway will lose much of the leading role we have had for many years and through many governments, as a heavy contributor to the Middle East and into Palestine. I had a very good meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Hillary Clinton yesterday. One of the first things she mentioned was the importance of us now, as the leader of the AHLC, with the United States, ensuring that these appropriations were maintained so that we can continue the state-building project of Prime Minister Fayyad for a difficult and important time in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I would be very concerned if Norway would now follow the advice of the Progress Party on a massive cut in the support that gives us the central role.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e429	Just a little clarification: it's a little strange if democracy and human rights work in the Middle East and North Africa are done depending on the size of a Norwegian grant. There have to be completely different factors that matter. Yes, we're making cuts, but that doesn't mean we can't take on critical relationships and be a positive partner when it's necessary and desirable. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not mention Syria in his statement. I would challenge the Foreign Minister to say whether he sees the possibility of a movement in this tragic situation, and whether we are now at a difference, so that it is possible to imagine other ways of acting from the international community to end this terrible civil war with great suffering for the Syrian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e436	I can start by saying that I didn't get to mention Syria because the time was up. What I was going to say, and as I get the opportunity to say now, is that I agree with what has been said. The situation has gone from bad to worse. It has actually been true for a long time that it has gone from bad to worse. Now we also have a concern about the possible use of chemical weapons. At the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting two days ago, we were very clear that it would at least be crossing a red line, and it is also thinking about how to help secure the chemical weapons, for example. in the case of complete dissolution in Syria. Moreover, it is very positive that we now see a better collection. The new coalition of Syrian resistance is considerably more extensive than the former National Council. That's why we're cooperating more closely with them, and that, plus the international pressure on al-Assad that he has to go off, should contribute to a change gradually. Unfortunately, it does not seem to happen in the next few weeks, and I regret that as much as the representative of Høglund.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e443	Norway has ratified the EFTA Agreement with Ukraine and the Stortinget has dealt with it here. For the first time in history, Norway is ahead of the EU in terms of a trade agreement with a neighbouring country in dialogue with the EU on trade agreements and closer integration. At the same time, the EU is currently very restrictive in moving on to a trade agreement with Ukraine, and there are obvious reasons for this. It would be interesting to hear the Foreign Minister’s assessment of the opportunities Norway and Norway alone should provide in this context to influence Ukraine in a different direction in terms of human rights, compared to what we could have done if we had a time course that was consistent with what the EU has.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e448	I note first that the Right, its habit, believes that we must follow the European Union, so even when you go ahead, it is also wrong. Having said that, I would agree that it is a significant challenge, that the situation in Ukraine is worrying, and that we see a clear deterioration. This was a topic that was hard to attend yesterday in Dublin at the OSCE Ministerial Meeting, where it was one of the countries on which there was a lot of talk. There's an extra spice in life that they're going to have the chairmanship of the OSCE next year, and that might be an interesting situation. There are probably some opportunities to work more directly with them, because the contrast between the principles of the OSCE and what Ukraine actually does will then be made visible. I can only say that I hope that all our entrances to Ukraine give us an opportunity for a critical dialogue with the authorities on the development of a large and important country, quite central in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e453	As the Minister of Foreign Affairs probably noticed, my point was Norway’s isolation rather than going along with – not after – the EU, and the strength it could give us. At the Helsinki Committee's anniversary seminar earlier this fall, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that Norway raised a number of questions to Ukraine in connection with the UN review of the human rights situation in the country, and it might also be interesting to hear in this context whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs was satisfied with the answers given to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e460	We have addressed a number of specific issues, not least the issue of selective justice, both in the UN Human Rights Council and in direct dialogue, i.e. whether it is the use of the law in such a way that political opponents are hit harder than others who would have been in the same situation. Last week, I was personally given the opportunity to deal with Ukraine's then prime minister. We had extensive talks with the Prime Minister, who went off the day after he was in Norway – without me thinking the relationship was direct – and I think I will allow myself to say that we are not fully satisfied with the answers we have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e465	I want to go back to this with the upgrade of the Palestinian observer status of the United Nations. There has been a starting point since the Oslo process in the 1990s for a two-state solution – agreed – and mutual recognition, and for this to be negotiated between these two parties, Israel and the Palestinian authorities. What has now been done in the United Nations system is that one has gone – let's say – a unilateral upgrade, to Israel's protests against what is happening. Then I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: does he now think it will be difficult to get this back to a negotiating table – that is, back to what was the principle of the Oslo Agreement – and does he think that a negotiated solution can be reached, now that Israel is set on the sideline of that UN decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e470	I think it's the opposite. The fact that the resolution itself pointed explicitly and directly to the negotiating table and committed the Palestinians to further negotiations on all outstanding issues, without pre-positioning on how to resolve them, and Norway also strongly contributed to the formulations put forward, was the basis for a large majority of the world’s country to vote in favour and for countries that were previously believed to vote against, for example. Germany, abstained instead. It's a significant change in the international picture. I think that the situation that has now arisen has made it more likely, not less likely, that there will be negotiations. For the sake of order, and for those of particular interest, I would say that the Palestinian self-government authorities could not go to the UN with such a resolution, but the PLO was in its full right to go to the UN with such a resolution, and it is also a legal shade that we share with quite a number of other countries working on this. Part of what has been said that this is contrary to the Oslo agreement is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e478	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e481	In many debates here in the United Kingdom, I have addressed the situation in the Middle East, and in particular the situation between the Israelis and the Palestinians. There is a great deal of unrest in the whole region now. Syria has been mentioned in the past – it is very serious – and now the situation for the Palestinians has also become more difficult, as I see it. There was great joy in many camps when there became a solid majority in the UN General Assembly to give Palestine observer status. It was important – important for the Palestinian people and important for the Palestinian State Building Project and a future Palestinian State. 138 countries voted to give this status to the country. It's brilliant, but it's mandatory, too. It commits to help relaunch the peace process, even if it does not look very bright today, and it obliges to stand up and say when the country is exposed to unfairness and illegalities as it is now. In the midst of all the joys, Palestine now experiences the strong reactions of Israel as a result of being given the new status of the United Nations. They held back the Palestinians' own money, tax and tariff bonds of nearly 93 million. the euro, which should have been paid now in December. It directly affects the Palestinian people. At the top of it all, Israel has announced that they will build 3,000 new settlements – totally unacceptable. I am pleased that Norway is contributing to the Palestinian territories, including: through the budget we are about to adopt today. But it is also important that we politically send strong signals to Israel that the reactions they are now showing are not acceptable. Then I record that it has been proposed by the Progress Party to cut off support for Palestine and the Middle East, and they will cut off support for the UN organisation for the Palestinian refugees. It is at least not a good signal to send from Norway for a heavy time, I believe. In foreign policy there are not too many disagreements, and that is good. Nevertheless, we distinguish layers on some points with regard to the state budget. This applies in particular to development and assistance. In fact, when we look at the alternative state budgets, there are billions separating the government parties from the Right Party and the Advance Party. It's a clear signal of what we can expect from a possible government change. Right cutters over 1 billion. kr, Advance Party Cuts over 7 br. kr. These cuts would have major consequences if they had been adopted, in particular the proposals of the Progress Party to cut the regional allocation to Africa and the large cuts in the allocations to the United Nations. But cutting suggestions are one thing – it is also interesting to consider what kind of policies these parties want to pursue in this area. All parties are now in programming processes ahead of their national meetings in the spring, and the programme proposals for the vast majority of them have been submitted. I have gone through the proposals from the Party of Advances and the Right, and what we can expect if the two parties come together in government is a clear change in course. The Progress Party will limit State aid, channel assistance to countries that open up free trade, thus imposing conditions on it, and they will make their daily lives completely different. On the right, aid will concentrate thematically and geographically, i.e. cut in the number of countries for which we provide assistance, and they will also change the funding arrangements for voluntary organisations. I disagree with this change in course – it is hardly going to shock anyone – and I particularly disagree with cutting in the number of countries. For what does that really mean? Are we going to sit and control detail where the organisations can have projects? This includes, among other things: through them that we contribute in as many countries as we do. The representative Svein Roald Hansen mentioned Digni, who has partners in over 40 countries. Shall we go in and say that they can't, that now they have to break with their partners? I don't think that's right. Then I'm worried when the Right will cut off support for Asia and Latin America. Both of these regions face major challenges, which deserve Norwegian attention and which deserve and need Norwegian assistance. Finally, there are many who disagree that we should have such a high level of the aid budget, and that it is wrong to have the 1 pst. target. I believe that the goal is important. At a time when many countries cut their aid budgets, it is quite reasonable that we do not, and that we see our share in relation to the income we have. It provides predictability and guarantees that Norway remains a strong international contributor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e500	The defence has been reorganised over several years. Much of this has been useful and important measures to transform defence from a mobilization defence to an intervention defence. Other measures have gone too fast. The defense can't live in constant change, all the way, all the time. The Progress Party therefore wants predictability around the Defence Organisation and Development. This also requires predictability in terms of the economy. The progress party takes the consequences of it and follows up its promises with an addition of a little over 1 billion. kr on the defence budget. The Progress Party sees major challenges in the future regarding defence capacity and lack of resources. The army must be strengthened in order to meet the tasks assigned to it. The army’s size must reach a level that ensures continuity in foreign operations while maintaining its presence and activity in Norway. In order to ensure a satisfactory operational level, it is necessary to provide for more training, more training and modernisation of weapons and equipment. There are a number of challenges in maritime defence related to the phase-in of new ships, and these must be addressed both economically and organisationally. It is important that the activities of the Maritime Defence Agency in Norwegian sea areas are increased in order to ensure sovereignty in Norwegian waters. This is essential for the exercise of sustainable resource management, perhaps especially in the northern regions. The Progress Party believes that Home Protection has been the starvation of the government for several years. It is necessary to strengthen the level and size of Home Security so that Home Security can be a solid resource in crisis and war. Home protection must be provided with the means to ensure the necessary training and training of their crews. Further, the Coast Guard must be strengthened. Coast Guards are important both for resource management and security, not least in the northern regions. The Coast Guard must be secured with helicopter access in order to perform adequate surveillance and preparedness tasks. Today's situation with very worn and over 30-year-old helicopters is not satisfactory. The Progress Party expects the government to find satisfactory solutions to these challenges as soon as possible so that the helicopter capacity is continuously secured until new helicopters are in place. There is cause for concern about the many delays in projects. The NH90 helicopters are currently six years late. The first two machines have now been delivered, and the supplier has been given a deadline for 2014 to deliver the remaining twelve helicopters. The Progress Party is concerned about the operational capacity, in particular within the Coast Guard and Maritime Defence until the latest NH90 helicopters are in place, and expects the Government to have solutions to ensure satisfactory capacity in the meantime. The delayed delivery of used armoured special purpose vehicles also results in limitations on the capacity of army mechanised departments. This year, too, there have been many challenges and changes related to the logistics project in the LOS programme in Defence, and there is a high risk in the project. There are great advantages to Norway acquiring materials that are standard also in other NATO countries. It will make maintenance and common use of materials easier. There are cost-effective positive aspects of acquiring shelf goods instead of specialised material. Cyber protection is also a very important area in which the Progress Party believes it needs to be more committed. Norway must have sufficient resources to ensure critically exposed infrastructure against attacks and sabotage. There must be a robust 24 hour manned organisation and a resource access ensuring continuous capacity against emerging threats. There's a reason to notice that NATO also sees this as very important. Just like the previous speaker, Eva Kristin Hansen, I intend to say a few words about the development policy of the Progress Party. Assistance and development assistance are important. There is no reason why large parts of the world's population should live in lawless societies where human rights do not exist, and in poverty that is difficult for us to grasp. But not all assistance is good help. The way in which the assistance is used by the political authorities is often more crucial for the assistance’s contribution to economic development than the amount of assistance. This is not a quote from the party program of the Progress Party – it could have been – but it says to read in Norad’s own 2009 U-help report. In stark contrast to this, the government's ultimate goal is that the number of billions being sent out must in all respects be at least 1 pst. of Norway’s gross domestic product. Here, then, the government's strategy is contrary to Norad's clear conclusion. Getting rid of money is not difficult. Getting good results from money use in developing countries is definitely more demanding. One of the most effective things we can do to developing countries is let them export goods to us. Free trade is more important than assistance. Trade provides jobs, production, income, social protection, well-being and freedom. And the ring-fence continues: increased export income and tax revenue make it possible to expand energy production, roads, ports, schools and health services. I know that someone prefers socialism, plan economy and protectionism instead, even though this has made mistakes everywhere in the world where it has been practiced, and even if research gives completely different advice. A study carried out by researchers Moore and Zanardi from 2011 looks at the link between trade liberalisation and grants for welfare services in developing countries. Free trade critics often claim that trade liberalisation, lower taxes and lower customs barriers in developing countries will lead to the loss of revenues in these countries, which in turn lead to a decline in appropriations for basic services such as health, education and transport. The study analyses 51 developing countries in the period 1991–2005 and finds no evidence that trade liberalisation leads to cuts in the allocation of welfare services. Yesterday I took a phone call to Yara, one of the world’s largest fertilizer manufacturers. And I got a clear message back: Africa can be a food-development Eldorado, but there are many obstacles. Customs walls and quota systems in the Western world are something, corruption is a major problem, there are similar problems due to lack of infrastructure, in particular roads and water and energy supply. In these areas, therefore, action needs to be taken. The Progress Party and the Right have two proposals attached to this. One is to set up an expert group that can help developing countries to support red tape and barriers to trade. The second is to establish a trading facility to generate growth in African business. More than half of the countries in the world receive aid from Norway. The Swedish government has carried out a nationalisation project. Instead of lubricating thinly to everyone, they choose a few countries. It makes control and evaluation easier, and it allows countries to know beneficiary countries and their conditions better. In 2011, Norway’s aid budget was allocated to 112 countries. I'm sure the Minister for Aid doesn't even manage to ram up all the countries he sends money to. In the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Progress Party and the Right, we also call for greater criticism of individual voluntary organisations receiving large amounts of money to operate projects in developing countries. Among other things, we pray: that more is done to examine whether money use has an adequate impact and that a so-called blacklist of organisations not addressing the problem of corruption in developing countries is being drawn up. Independent organisations receive huge amounts of money annually; it is important to evaluate their use. Assistance is important. The aid policy of the Progress Party is to provide assistance to poor countries. But we will attach strict demands to aid. The recipient countries have to do something for themselves. They must develop democracy, human rights, the market economy, capitalism and free trade, so that countries gradually free themselves from the dependence on financial subsidies. We need an exit strategy. In a budgetary note from an overall opposition, we state that States receiving Norwegian aid must follow up and respect fundamental human rights. You can ask yourself what the government has done to it. Now it's high time to punish the worst dictators in the world. Take away the money, and they tend to disappear by themselves. Furthermore, we must be very hardy in our demands to combat corruption. Then we have to focus on developing infrastructure. If roads and energy supply are in place, everything else comes in order. Assistance shall not be a permanent solution but a temporary aid for self-help, freedom and economic independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e549	Right wants to strengthen Norwegian defence. So we're adding more than 600 million. In addition to the government's proposals in our draft budget for next year. This means that in the period since 2008, the Right would have significantly strengthened Norwegian defence, and it is at a time when we find it very necessary to strengthen Norwegian defence, as our allies mainly cut their defence budgets due to the financial crisis. It is therefore worrying that the growth of the defence budget in Norway is lower than the growth of gross domestic product. We've had a negative real growth in the budget for three of the last five years. The defence has become the loser in the government's budgetary priorities in recent years. The government indicates that in the next year’s budget, for 2013, there is a real increase in funding of 300 million. kr. It's isolated right, but you can ask yourself a timely question: what kind of operational effect does this get when we know that 211 of these 300 million goes to securing office buildings in the capital? The defence is facing major changes, which are not least going to be very demanding both in personnel and in financial terms. The acquisition of combat lyan will start a giant investment that will completely blow up the defence operating budgets if no more robust funding is found than that provided by the department. The right is therefore deeply concerned that fighter aircraft may suffer the same fate as the last heavy defence investment. We see that a significant number of billions have been spent on investments, among other things. frigates and other capacities, which unfortunately the government has not provided, become operational as planned. Right wants to strengthen the Army, we strengthen the Maritime Defense, we strengthen the Air Force, we strengthen the Home Guard and not least the Coast Guard – that is, more defense with Right, more practice, more training and more presence. Our priorities will primarily help to strengthen preparedness, and a maritime defence and a coastguard will be given the means to sail, above all, in the north. It is necessary at a time when attention to the Arctic areas is increasing. We must give priority to taking greater responsibility in our own area, because military activity seems to be increasing significantly here in the years to come, where new major powers are facing, including China and its huge economic vehicle trains. Although our presence in Afghanistan is approaching the end, there is every reason to believe that the defence must be prepared to participate in foreign missions in the future. In this context, we are, of course, fully financing participation with frigate presence in the Ocean Shield action. The extraction from Afghanistan provides a breathing room, with extra good possibilities for thinking new. There is little doubt that the military's operational capability and capacity are in a kind of crisis. In fact, something can be read out of the long-term plan and budget, although the Ministry of Defence's budget proposal is almost impossible to read in order to measure operational strength and capacity in the Defence. The state of the Army's brigades is actually indicated in the budget, that personnel in the vast majority of Army departments are being trained and thus do not have the basic training necessary to solve the tasks they are intended to do. In the media, we can read more about the Marine's twenty vessels which either lack central systems or are completely lacking in crew, and are therefore not trained for the tasks for which the vessels are intended. So, as operational combat systems, they're not very accessible. The coastguard wears less sailing days and largely sails without helicopter in the protection zone, making the control and surveillance work extremely complicated. A coastguard in the fishing protection zone without helicopter and frigates at berth in Bergen does not produce expected or adopted power. All in all, this gives a picture of a defence that is not prepared for the situation we actually need to defend. Although the long-term plan takes small steps in the right direction, it is in the Right's view crucial that political leadership and defence management recognise the challenge, so that we can make realistic plans for the future. The summing-up after almost eight years of red-green government is that we do not have operational, available strength to solve the defence tasks, as they are formulated and adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e566	Norway currently has a very high-quality modern defence. This is the result of long-term and comprehensive renewal work, major structural and organisational changes and political will and ability to plan and invest in the defence sector. Let me first correct a mistake that has been said from the Right, namely that there has been a real decline in the defence budget. That's not right. There has been a growth in the current long-term plan, and there has also been a significant increase in the next long-term plan. In recent years, Norway has had a unique economic freedom, compared with most of our allies, and today we are spending most of our time on defence per capita of all European NATO countries. This freedom of action, combined with the relatively early introduction of the defence, has been essential for us to achieve good results. A good indication of this is not least the high level of exercise activity in today’s defences, in terms of scope, quality and complexity. The main objectives of the 2009-2012 long-term plan will be achieved. This gives us a very good starting point for the further development of the defence. At the same time, there is a situation that obliges and requires a continuous and active follow-up. The Government and the Storting have followed up the budgetary assumptions of the current long-term plan, and the defence sector has fully delivered with regard to the structural and efficiency measures imposed on them. Such internal governance will also be essential for the achievement of the objectives of the new long-term plan. Let me just stress that the most important thing for the defense is predictability, that the government and the Stortinget follow up on what you say to follow up, and that the defense itself manages the conversion. They've delivered it so far. With the 2013 draft defence budget, the government is actively following up and facilitating the achievement of the objectives of the new long-term defence sector adopted by the Stortinget in June this year. The draft budget provides for a strengthening of the Army, the Maritime Defence, the Air Force, the Home Security, the Intelligence Service and the National Security Authority. There is room for increased operational activity, more exercise and training, the introduction of new and modern materials and a strengthened preparedness and presence – especially in the north. The result will be a defence that is even better able to take care of Norwegian security and Norwegian interests, which can also contribute to international operations, respect our obligations and be a credible member of NATO. In the 2013 draft budget, the government follows up the budgetary assumptions underlying the long-term plan. In addition, the budget for emergency and security measures is strengthened. The device of the Norwegian strength contributions in Afghanistan is modified and highlighted. Work on improving efficiency in the defence sector continues with full strength. In total, this gives an actual increase in purchasing power of at least 568 million. kr. This provides room for a significant increase in priority bets. As early as 2013, the government will launch the change in Army equipment, increase the level of material investment, make a major effort to meet future challenges of competence, strengthen ICT security and, at the same time, strengthen the defence sector’s ability to assist civil society. In total, an actual reinforcement of the Army, the Naval Defense, the Air Force and the Home Guard is proposed at 288 million. kr in 2013. This will strengthen the operational capability. The long-term plan is still a significant effort on the Army. This will provide a significantly more accessible and quality army. The phase-in of frigates, corvettes and new sea target missiles provides a very modern maritime defence, with significant operational impact. I am pleased that a joint committee agrees that the Coast Guard contributes in a good and effective way to very good resource management and control in Norwegian sea areas. The Air Force has got new transport planes and will have new helicopters and fighter planes. This will give us an air defense that will be even better rusted to solve its tasks in a credible and efficient way. The government is proposing the strengthening of the Home Guard as required by the long-term plan. Training and exercise of the area structure will further increase. This will also increase operational capability. A prerequisite for an effective and timely Norwegian defence is modern material that is managed in a sound manner. The Defence LOS programme is very important in order to further improve management and ensure increased cost-effectiveness. The logistics project was launched in 2011 with Accenture AS as a supplier. As stated in the proposition, the company has so far not delivered as intended and contracted. After the presentation of the budget proposal, the Ministry of Defence has been informed that Accenture needs additional time to complete the first phase and the Defence Department has granted a deadline of up to March 2013. This government has stood for an extensive and sustained commitment to modernising the material. The initiative continues in 2013 and in the years to come. Buying new F-35 fighter aircraft will give the Defense a historic capacitylift. In addition, the acquisition of Norwegian high-tech industry offers a unique opportunity to strengthen competitiveness for decades to come. So far, the industry in Norway has competed to over 2 billion. kr in contracts, and the total industrial potential is considered to be very high, to approximately 60 to 70 billion. kr over the entire production time of the fighter aircraft programme. It is planned to start the main delivery of the new fighter aircraft in 2017. The Government therefore intends to submit proposals to the Stortinget in 2013 on the authorisation to order the first aeroplanes in the main delivery. As the budgetary position so clearly highlights, operational considerations must be given crucial importance in the concrete timing of acquisition. This will represent a decisive investment in Norwegian security and security. Until now, the area of competence has not been subject to the same modernisation as the rest of the Defence. The government will fix this. We will demonstrate the ability and willingness to establish an organisation of expertise tailored to the needs and tasks of the defence sector in the future. Staff and competence will therefore be a key field of action in the years to come. A major effort is being made to facilitate a reform of the sector, and the government is aiming to return to the Great Britain on this work in a short time. At the same time, the government will continue to have a full focus on further follow-up of areas where important actions and reforms have already been implemented. This applies not least to the supervision of personnel, before, during and after foreign operations, the recruitment of women and the work on attitudes, ethics and management. The government continues to invest in social security. The total resources must be used and coordinated as best as possible. Resources need to be identified in emergency and emergency situations. Several measures have been taken in 2011 and 2012 to further facilitate assistance from the Civil Protection Sector. In the 2013 budget, we will: Strengthen, expand and make permanent helicopter standby on Back Strengthen Home Protection Strengthen NSM’s capacity to prevent threats in the digital space increasing priority to targeted exercise and training activities. The Right Party and the Progressive Party argue that, compared with the Government, they have increased the defence budget. In fact, it is absolutely necessary for the Right and the Advance Party to do so, because they have not sufficiently participated in the transition, the choices and priorities underlying both the current long-term and the future. It costs extra to have an extra structure, so it has to be covered in. You don't necessarily get a better defense not to make the difficult choices. That is precisely why today we have a defence that, according to the Chief of Defence, has a much better operational capability than before. The government doesn't have to figure out the situation in the Defense. It's just reading Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 and look at the presentations that are there, both in figures and in figures. Most curves point up – and some point up well. The government’s 2013 budget proposal is a further strengthening of defence efforts and the defence’s operational delivery – that means also enhanced social security. Through clear choices and priorities, the government invites continued cooperation on a significant commitment to defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e631	The National Audit Office has noted the lack of competence and the unwanted departure of personnel in the Maritime Defence Agency and addresses it as a manifest problem. There has also been a lot of reports about it. Can the Council of State assure Stortinget that this development will be reversed in 2013, and would also like to give the Storting a few points of view on how to reverse this negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e638	It is true that it is difficult to maintain sufficient personnel in the maritime defence. This does not mean that we are not able today to follow the operating pattern we have said we are going to. But we see clearly that this can be critical. There's a situation that's hard to get out of. Therefore, there must be many measures in the field of personnel. The inspector-general is very concerned about implementing it, and of course we want to have full pressure on it, because it is essential that we have the right personnel. But here we are exposed to what is happening in a sector that is dependent on highly trained technical personnel, namely that there is competition for the labour force. We're taking this very seriously. The work has begun and is in progress, and we are fully focused on the future operational activities of the Maritime Defense Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e643	The Minister of Defence said in his post a few minutes ago that Right-wing incorrect information. I would like to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at the answers given by the Council of State itself to Question No Right. 498. It shows a little bit of economic development. The answer from the government council is that in 2007 we had a real minus of 1,19 pst., in 2008 a real minus of 0.56 pst. and in 2011 a minus of 0.26 pst. The answer also shows that we have had a weaker growth than the growth of gross domestic product in five of the last five years. Who's wrong, is it right, or is it the Minister of Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e650	We're obviously talking about two completely different things. If the representative Kristiansen compares with GDP, it is a completely different calculation – if it is a share of GDP this goes on. What I've been responding to in Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 – and as I pointed out in my post here – shows that numbers and figures are the real defence budget, and the most important thing about it is that this government has done it promised. When we said in 2005 how to set up the defence, we made a long-term plan according to it. We followed up, heads for heads, and the defense followed up in their conversion. It was the first time that the long-term plan was fulfilled 100 pst. of government and grossing-up. By comparison, I can mention that the Bondevik II government managed a 96 pst. follow-up. It's actually quite critical, because what the defense needs most is predictability and stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e656	The Minister of Defence was injured to describe a picture of reality that does not exist. We compared in the answer given by the Council of State both the development of gross domestic product and the actual budgetary development. Therefore, there is a completely wrong answer presented to the Storting today. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the Riksrevision report. Also there is a picture where the Coast Guard sails without a helicopter in the fishing protection zone, we have frigates for berths in Bergen, we have a purchasing failure that makes the purchase of helicopters e.g. is seven to eight years late. The National Audit Office writes in its latest report that: ‘over the last few years’, ‘extensive investments in new vessel structures in maritime defence had not so far led to increased operational capability and increased physical presence in priority areas’. Is it the Riksrevision – not right this time – that is wrong in its report?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e668	I would really recommend the representative of Kristiansen to read on pages 42 and 43 of Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013. A very large amount of the defence activity is indicated in an overview of numbers and graphs. In the case of helicopters, it is quite clear – I have responded to this earlier – that it is worrying that the supplier has not been able to deliver helicopters of sufficient quality. Now we've got two helicopters to Norway. We're waiting for the third straight over New Year. We will then decide on further deliveries. We've looked at alternatives, precisely because this is a very important capacity, especially – as Kristiansen says – for the Coast Guard. Then we look at the lifetime extension of the Lynx helicopters in order to be able to use them for a little longer than what has been planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e677	There is now considerable uncertainty in the defence because of the problems with the delivery of the newly mentioned NH90 helicopters. Two have been delivered – at least six years late. As far as I understand, it is now time to cancel the entire agreement. The first thing that concerns many people is when the other twelve are delivered. The Minister of Defence just said that the third might come in the new year once. But what is perhaps even more important is that if the whole agreement is terminated – and we are talking again about four, five, six, seven years in time before new helicopters can be put in place – does the Minister of Defense now have a plan for how the helicopter resource should be sufficiently available until deliveries are avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e682	It has clearly been a concern that these helicopters have not been delivered in time. This also applies to many other countries. It doesn't help Norway, but we agreed on the development of a helicopter. What's special about this quad, is that's what the helicopter Defense wants. That's what gives the operational capacity that the Defense needs, not least to be able to operate in the north and out of the sea. Therefore, there are no other alternatives that meet exactly what the defence needs. That is why we have, in the longest time, also adhered to this contract. But it is clear that there is a limit, and when we also get a delivery that is not quality enough, and you have to spend a lot of resources repairing, it is not good enough. But now it looks a little bit lighter. We'll look at the third quad when it comes, and then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e687	I thank you for the answer, which does not raise any particular less concern than before. But if we now talk about it taking four-five-six, eight, maybe ten years, before we put in place the fourteen helicopters that have been ordered, was my question in the first place: does the Minister of Defense have a plan for how the helicopter capacity should be adequately secured for many, many years in the future to meet the defence needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e692	The plan is to start using the NH90 helicopters as early as next year, when we get the delivery we expect. As I say, it's not a situation anyone wanted. The dilemma is that this is the helicopter that meets the defence requirements. This means that you've been hanging on to the contract for a long time. It's been a development project. The feedback we get is that the defense is very pleased with the first helicopter that came, after everything was fixed on it. But, as I said, when we get the third quad, we're going to decide what to do next. So we've gone into a lifetime extension of the Lynx helicopters. And then we have to remember that the helicopter capacity that is now inside the NH90 would greatly increase our helicopter readiness. That's very good. But as far as the Coast Guard is concerned – it's only the Coast Guard who's had helicopters in the past, it's the ones who depend most on it – of course they will also be given priority when it comes to the new helicopters being delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e701	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e704	For a while I was, together with several others here in the Chamber, at the autumn session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Praha. It made the impression once again to meet colleagues from allies in NATO and hear their reports on how the defence budgets are doing in their home country. The NATO countries are affected by economic turmoil, budget cuts and defence budget cuts – partly large cuts. Only Norway and one or two other NATO countries are increasing their defence budgets. This may in the long term lead to a serious situation for the development of NATO. The situation is now that the United States is increasingly taking over the funding of NATO, while the signals from Washington are clearly moving in the direction that the United States does not want to finance so much of NATO cooperation. What will be the continuation of this? How does NATO evolve, and how is NATO funded in the future? These are going to be big and important questions. Then I have to say: the colleagues in NATO who sit and cut in the defence budgets should certainly have been present here today and listened to the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, for the husband of misery descriptions and black paint I think almost never heard. It is almost nothing that works in the Norwegian defence, one should listen to the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party. Then I have now understood the Right, because of course they also acknowledge, and can calculate – the Right is good at calculating – that the defence appropriations are increasing. But what do they do? Well, then they'll count it in GDP. I am quite sure that the defence budget in Greece and Spain is increasing in the current share of GDP, because GDP is falling dramatically. So measuring the costs of the defence in GDP is a little clothesy way to argue from what was at least a serious defence party before, which was the Right. On the aid side, where we have traditionally measured the appropriations in terms of GDP or GNI, it is not so important to measure the appropriations in proportion to GDP. No, there is the content of the appropriations – what we spend the money for – that is so important. But not in terms of defence, no – there is now the share of GDP that is important. So this number xersis right over here, we should add the side. We've been converting the defense for years. This means that we now have more money for more operational defence. We have probably never had a better defense than what we have in Norway today, and I think we can say that we have one of NATO's very best defenses. The size laid down the framework for the future defence structure in the examination of the long-term defence plan for the period 2013-2016 earlier this year. We are now following this up in the state budget that we are dealing with today. Since World War II, Norway has had very many involved in international operations — from a large number in the German Brigade, through many international operations, to Afghanistan today. It is important that the Storting expresses support for our soldiers in international services, and that we conduct an active and targeted veteran policy. It was a neglected area for many years. Fortunately, a lot has happened in recent years. It was just supposed to be missing. With next year's state budget, we will secure more money for the operation of the Maritime Defense Agency, the Air Force, the Army and the Home Guard. We do that because we have relocated and released funds internally in defence, and because we have a huge majority that increases budgets and prioritises an ever better defence. This gives room for more training and continuation of giving new equipment to our weapons. We are getting an ever better defence in Norway. The army, the Navy, Homeland and Air Force are getting better and better. The budget for 2013 contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e730	I'd like to start a little bit where the previous speaker was relaxed. You get the impression that everything's fine. We have the best defense in the world, and there's nothing to worry about. I get some association in the way you described the police a year or two ago, where everything was very well, everything was in place, there was no need for concern. But then we saw that when they were put to the test in a real crisis, it was not at all the way the plans had planned. The Prime Minister was on TV after the decision of the Gjørv Commission was put forward and said, "We had the plans for what to do, but we did not have the recognition of the importance of preparedness and security. Some of the things that came out were lack of training, lack of practice, lack of command systems, lack of communication systems – much that was thought to work, but that did not work when it was put to the test. That's some of the concern that we also have for the Defense. You have the plans – no one will deny that the plans are there. But what you're worried about is whether these plans are actually being realized as they have been adopted. There is cause for concern, as has been the case in this debate. When it comes to comparing with other countries in Europe and saying that we are using more in relation to them, we have a very demanding security policy situation that is likely to become even more demanding in the future. We have a neighbour in the East who has great ambitions and is building up his military activity, we have the United States that is turning west and focusing on the Pacific, and we have a Europe that has big debt problems and more than enough to deal with it. That means that in the future we have to take greater responsibility for our own security. That is why this also means that we would like to have to grant more in order to ensure the necessary preparedness and security. That is why we have also entered the alternative budget of the Progress Party to strengthen the operational appropriations for the Army by 90 million. kr, increase the operational appropriations for the Maritime Defence by 90 million. SEK, Homeland by 70 million. SEK, Coast Guard with 100 million. kr. Together, we have strengthened the entire defence budget by over 1 billion. kr. We believe that this is necessary to get the necessary training, to get the necessary personnel, to get the necessary skills, so that the operational capability is where it should be, that it is not just planned on a paper. I think we've learned that. We have very little experience in sub-financing defence reforms. There was some of the big problem in the interwar period. Many defence reforms were adopted, all underfunded. Finally, something on paper looked like it would work, but in practice it was not a defense at all. Then I want to take a little trip over to the Middle East, which has been a bit discussed here. In the Middle East, there are major upheavals. As it is today, there is an unstable region. The Arab Spring focuses on dictatorships, on oppression, and is basically something that can create opportunities, create peace and freedom and stability in the region, but at the same time has the potential to beat the other way. We know that earlier in history revolutions have led to the very opposite, to totalitarian regimes instead. Of course, there is also a danger to what is happening in the Middle East. There has been a lot of discussion about Israel and the Palestinian side here today. I think that conflict must always be seen in a slightly larger perspective. If you raise the perspective a little bit, you see the connection to Iran, which has ambitions in the region and wants to destabilise it, linking it up to Hamas, linking it to Hezbollah, an unstable Syria, an unstable Lebanon, and an Egypt where it is uncertain as to the direction it takes. Hopefully, the peace agreement between Israel and Egypt will be firm, but we have seen trends in the north, for example. On the border of Israel against Syria, where there has been some rustling with weapons. It is from that perspective that some of Israel's actions need to be understood, for example. in the Gaza War. It's not about Gaza alone or, for that matter, Lebanon – when it has done so – but it's about a bigger picture where Israel fears having a war on several fronts, and about an Iran sitting in the background and pulling the strings. I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his clear statement in connection with the last Gaza War, in which Israel's full right to defend itself against Hamas rockets was recognised. All States have a fundamental right of defence under international law. I think that most states would have reacted somewhat in line with what Israel did if they had experienced 500 rockets being shot in at their own citizens, among other things. against Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, which are large areas of the population. Then we are also concerned that self-defense should be proportional, that it should be necessary and sufficient, but also not beyond that. That is why the Progress Party has today raised criticisms against, for example: The settlement policy of Israel, and the holding back of Palestinian wages, which, of course, is far from self-defense. There are measures that we do not agree with and that we believe are completely wrong, as the situation is down there now. Then I think – in the conflict that has been – that you have to distinguish what is self-defense, and who is actually the offensive and the defensive party. There is also a difference between attacks aimed at military targets, but which go beyond civilians, and attacks aimed directly at civilian targets. When we see the rockets fired from Gaza, they're targeting civilian targets, they're targeting civil society. It is an offensive war which, of course, is far from international law. When Israel then takes countermeasures, as long as they are directed towards military goals, it is easier to defend international law, although unfortunately civil life is also lost. If you want peace, you depend on the parties really want peace. That is one of the challenges today. For a long time we heard that it was the occupation that was the problem, and that stood in the way of a peace solution. Israel has withdrawn from Gaza, and Israel has withdrawn settlements, yet we do not have peace in the area. Then we know that Hamas does not respect the agreements that have been concluded with Israel. One insists that the State of Israel does not have a right to exist, nor does one distance itself from the use of terror as an instrument. Then we believe that there is a need for a clear and firm line towards Hamas, which signals that this is an unacceptable line of international law. Norway must – through the UN – develop the perspective that the Palestinian side also has a responsibility to follow the agreements concluded and to deal with the rules of international law in force. If one is to have peace, it is also necessary to work with attitudes. If hatred, revenge, and violence are glorified, one is far from being able to create peace. We have seen examples of Palestinian textbooks and television stations spreading hate propaganda and homage to people who have committed terror against civilians. Here we believe that one must be clear and clear that this is completely unacceptable. It is necessary to ensure that Norwegian aid funds contribute to financing that type of activity. I think it is necessary to have a balanced Middle East policy in which the states are treated equally. It's not very impressive if you look at the history of the United Nations, how you've approached the Middle East conflict. The UN has during periods taken a very clear position. In particular, the general meeting has been very unfurnished in its approach. Perhaps the worst example goes back to 1975, when it was decided that Zionism is racism, and in that way Israel put it in the same light as the apartheid state of South Africa. From that point of view of the General Assembly – otherwise Idi Amin was the proposer, so it was not exactly a man of peace who stood behind – it is very difficult to create peace. In fact, they are willing to fire up during the conflicts instead of making constructive contributions. It is a cross of thought in the Middle East that the best processes have led to peace agreements that have been sustainable, for example. Camp David in 1979, in fact, has not been negotiated in the United Nations system. On the contrary, the General Assembly actually condemned the 1979 peace agreement. It was negotiated with the U.S. as a broker in a diplomacy where one stepped up to work through the difficult questions, and thus managed to find lasting solutions. This may be a reflection on and a cross of thought in relation to how to approach this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e781	The right-hand priority. Our development policy objectives are sustainable out of poverty, the realization of human rights and democracy. These are issues that we prioritise in our development policy. We dare to increase the appropriations for education for girls, for good governance, for food development and for human rights – and for those who currently have the worst: people on the run as a result of conflict and disaster. This means that in this budget, we are more involved with the Christian People's Party than we've ever done before. I'm glad. There is a great common understanding between the Right and Christian People's Party in development policy, and it promises good cooperation in the future. The right is spending a lot of money on civil society, which is boosted by 120 million. kr, targeting education for girls, against Africa and against good governance, and supporting human rights strengthened by a total of 100 million. kr, UNHCR is increased by 70 million. kr, and nutrient development is increased by 40 million. kr. We don't want to take one hand and give with the other. We have to have a logical development policy that actually relates, where there is consistency between our objectives and the means that we actually use. This must mean increased market access for the poorest countries as well. In fact, right-wing proposals for the development budget generate growth — something different from what more speakers have been involved in here — compared to the 2012 budget. Erik Solheim, at the launch of the 2012 budget, said: "I am proud enough of a record budget for Norwegian development cooperation." I am also proud of yet another record-high development budget for Right, i.e. 900 million. kr higher. Some speakers have drawn up critical comments relating to a concentration of assistance in particular. I believe that the simple recognition for any country that wants to provide assistance must be that they cannot be present anywhere – and they should not be present anywhere. This must be based on priorities, and it also wants to be right. We have to be relevant in what we do, and this also fits well with the Christian People's Party program at this point. We're betting again, as I said, in relation to our main objectives, but with a reduction in the number of countries, from today's 112 to some thoughtless lower number. To that end, we want significantly fewer countries receiving bilateral support from Norway. We want to significantly increase the bet on human rights that don't know geographical differences, we want to spend the money where they're actually most relevant, and where we get the most back for what we're using. We do not want to impose any restrictions on multilateral organisations as to where they are present. We want to give money to multilateral organisations based on how they can deliver in relation to our development goals and their own efficiency, and we want to give money then. Then I just have to quickly bring about the changes that the Right Party and the Christian Party have together. These are important, good changes. We are involved in giving priority to education in particular – a theme that has been chronically under-prioritised by today’s government – and we are also involved in increasing resources for food production, food security, and through bilateral assistance also the secure framework of voluntary organisations as well as for research, and we want to spend more money on combating tropical diseases, which affects the very poorest very hard. It amazes me when one hears several representatives railing over the 1 pst target. We heard the last time the representative Myrli said that, on the one hand, we want to compare the defence budget to GDP as a percentage, but not the development budget. To that it is to say, we want a high development budget. We want to contribute, we want Norway to be a strong contributor, but we don't want to commit it to the budget. Our criticism of the defence budget is not primarily about a drop in the percentage of the budget, it is primarily about the fact that this is real cut, that we have the real numbers that are now going down, and we are getting less defence again for what we are doing. Let me conclude by saying two words about Russia. It is very regrettable that we now have a Russia moving quickly away from democracy and across the Soviet Union's thoughts and thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e804	It's strange to experience that representatives from the Right can stand here on the pulpit and make a cut of 1.5 billion. kr as a bet. What we see Right doing is running a reverse Robin Hood policy, where they take from the world's poor and give to kingdoms of fortunes in Norway. In a debate on the external budget, it is a good idea to start from the question: Is it going forward in the world? You're asked what area you're talking about, and from what perspective. Economically, there is a continuing crisis in several European countries, with unemployment, lower demand and negative economic developments across large parts of our continent. The figures from the United States show a happy rise, and in Asia, purchasing power is increasing among many growth and contributes to an overall upward trend in the world economy. Climate challenges reinforce the world's injustice, and I use the opportunity to send happiness to Doha to move on. As far as human rights are concerned, 150 of the 193 UN member states have now renounced the use of the death penalty. And even though we know that 20 countries executed executions in 2011, and that there are great dark figures, the job against the death penalty is one of the areas that goes slow, but probably in the future. At the same time, we also see that fundamental human rights are being broken daily in Syria, Russia and China, to mention some very specific countries. Women and disabled people are discriminated against across large parts of the world, so yes, there is still much left. It is important to maintain Norway’s position in foreign policy. As a small country that contributes a lot, we should be an active partner in the UN and contribute where we can make a difference. At the same time, we are not in a position where we can dictate the world – neither is it desirable for anyone to do, so we must be inspired. Foreign policy is often a reflection of domestic policy. An important part of the work of the Norwegian Foreign Service is therefore to organise meeting places for Norwegian business and to promote Norwegian enterprises. It's important. When we're traveling, and I'm also talking to Norwegian business, I often use the opportunity to ask how they think the work is going, how they feel to Norwegian authorities as facilitators out there. The feedback is mostly good, and it's important and good. The last few weeks we've had fires at textile factories in Bangladesh, and we've seen that they've taken over a hundred lives. The requirement of transparency for an industry where there are large textile producers is met with a argument that they are afraid of distortions of competition if one publishes where the factories are and where clothing is produced. But some exceptions are. Levis and Stormberg are good examples of businesses leading the way. Sri Lanka, where Norway has also made an important effort, is a good example of countries that do a lot of right, but there is still a great job to do around ethical trade. The work on decent work, respect for ILO conventions and the fight against corruption is being increased in this budget. It's very important. As you know, it is not prohibited, either in Norway or in the EU, to import things that it would not be allowed to produce in Norway or in the EU. Therefore, Norwegian consumers risk involuntaryly ending up with blood on their hands in worst cases, because clothing and shoes are produced under dangerous health conditions and under poor working conditions. We are helping to put this on the agenda through political action, where Norwegian policies and efforts at decent work can make a difference. On December 1st was the world's AIDS day, and although 700,000 fewer new HIV cases were registered in 2011 than in 2010, there is still a great job to be done. In recent years, drugs have been developed that allow people to live long with AIDS and reduce the risk of infection between mother and child. Many people talk about and hope for an AIDS-free generation in Africa, and that it is possible because of prevention and medication. I also want to remind you that there is a lot of important work to be done on vaccines and the development of vaccines within HIV and AIDS. We have to bet on that, and we're doing that with a pretty big increase in this budget. It is a work that Norway has prioritised for many years and that we still need to give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e828	This is probably where the most ‘happy’ development minister in this House has ever seen, and then I’m not talking about the nomination in Oslo SV, but I’m here talking about a development budget for 2013 that really says solidarity works. I do because Norway under our government is going to be in happy circumstances even in 2013, because unlike the rest of Europe, we're not going to cut anything. The Soria Moria Declaration ensures that we share the happiness and wisdom that has made us one of the richest countries in the world, with those who need it the most. There are many of them, and only those who never meet lowly, striving, exploited, sick and war-damaged people – people who could have it better, who can have a future – can escape the luxury of not caring. I care, and largely it is that the vast majority of the population of Norway cares and shares the will to do so. So I'm glad, once again, to have the opportunity to present a development budget of 1 pst. of expected gross national income. Some in the opposition think we should focus on quality rather than quantity, but the desire for quantity just jumps out of focus on quality and seeing results. The right-hand side's talk of quality reveals itself, I think, as a hollow rhetoric to cover up that they need money for someone who has a higher priority than the world's poor, namely the kingdom of Norway. Cutting funds for poverty reduction and fair distribution and providing tax relief to wealthy people in Norway does not mean that you get fewer poor people in the world. It's not like there are fewer people who are poor in the world because Rimi-Hagen is getting relief from the wealth tax. To point out the current debate in Norway: The hollow rhetoric about quality is like when the Right in Oslo says that you get better quality in kindergartens, but cuts in minimum standards. I received criticism from both the Right Party and the Advance Party for this with the death of children, and I am the first to say that the ‘child dies’ is an epiphany that I do not see raising the debate any further – and I take that. My point is still up to debate today, and that's that unless you believe in magic, it's that cut has consequences. We have contributed, through aid projects, to, inter alia: electrification of Zanzibar and the island of Pemba. Doctors at Pemba Hospital in Tanzania estimate that they save 90 lives a month because they have access to electricity. Right, they're cutting the government's energy stake. For several years, the Progress Party has cut off the appropriations for the UN Population Programme – UNFPA – which is engaged in family planning, sexual education, work against gender mutilation and work on prevention and on safe births. Once again, it would have been exciting to try on a point formulation aimed at the Progress Party, and say that it is fascinating to see that you are hardworking followers of the work against gender mutilation in Norway, but not so concerned about it in the rest of the world. I've met young girls in Niger and Malawi – in Niger, half of the girls who are 15 years old are already married and have children. Working purposefully and systematically with sex education, giving access to prevention to the 200 million women in the world who want it, but don't get it, is actually greedyly important, and it has consequences if you don't spend money on it. Much of the budget, and the main efforts in our budget for this year, are continuing from year to year. Long-termity and predictability are key international principles for good aid management – often it is almost a failure, and against all odds, that we operate, but research supports us. Three decades are seen as a quick leap from vulnerability and poverty to a society like that. In Norway, we used at least one, and maybe a couple, a hundred years to make the progress we've had. If we look back over the last 100 years, we were one of Europe's poorest countries, and today we are one of the world's richest – but it took time to get it done. In our budget for 2013, basic areas such as education and health are continued. In terms of education, we're increasing to the level that I've notified before, in the spontaneous question hour: we're adding to 1.6 billion. kr, which is targeted at areas where we know that young people are struggling with education, namely areas where there is conflict. There we invite civil society in to do a good job, and secondly we focus on making sure that girls have the same access to education as boys. It turns out that the effort is working. One of the things I think it is important to emphasise in educational aid is that we see that countries themselves are increasing their efforts – and that's exactly what we think is important. Norway cannot be expected to pay for education in poor countries over time. I think it is an important point to make sure to contribute to increased income — for example: through taxes and other means — ensuring growth and prosperity in countries, because we see that they themselves spend money on education. In sub-Saharan Africa, there has been a growth in education budgets of about 6 pst. in recent years. The second is health – for which I and the Minister for Foreign Affairs share responsibility – where we have a formidable increase of 650 million. kr to anything from contraception to vaccines, and to the broad health work we know is necessary to get things done. We have great, good results that can be measured: kids come to school, mothers survive birth, children grow up. These mothers, these kids, their fathers and we ourselves need a functioning nature to bring about a useful life. That is why I would like to address one of the things that have been little up in the debate. I would recommend people to read VG today, pages 16 and 17. It's about climate, it's about the importance of taking care of our soil and nature, it's about taking care of the forest on our globe, and it's about making sure to stop the dangerous climate change. I see in my work and on my travels how climate plays into people's lives and lives. When I visited Haiti just after the hurricane had swept over the country and killed dozens of people, I met people who had had their crops destroyed. We know that tropical storms are going to be more of a part of the climate change that is going on. The temperature has already risen by 0.8 degrees over pre-industrial time, and there is more and more concern that it should escalate and go faster than we thought. In Malawi, I met farmers who we help to make sure that they can apply new techniques to take care of their soil, so that they can get more returns. Niger is hit by drought every two years now, instead of every ten years as it has been before. Niger emits a hundred percent of CO2 per capita of what we do in Norway. Nevertheless, it is those who are hardest hit by climate change. Making sure to contribute to forest conservation, investing in renewable energy as an important element to ensure that developing countries do not go into the same fossil trap that we were in when we evolved, and cutting emissions at home is extremely important – as we do, among other things. have been facilitated by the climate agreement. I have to clear up a misunderstanding related to the discussion of forest with the Christian People's Party. We have an agreement – we contribute money to developing countries that cut their emissions by taking care of the forest. When Brazil cuts in the deforestation, we make money. Know that in the forest year 2012 it was cut down 4 656 km2 forest. That's 72 pst. below our reference level for the allocation of money to Brazil, that is 27 pst. in the record year last year. We have a formidable reduction in emissions from the forest in Brazil. So let's say 1 billion. kr in the debt note to Brazil. Brazil is intent on having a note of debt instead of just getting a warrant of commitment, which is what the Christian People's Party proposes. Why is it easy to understand: if you sell a house to someone – and they say: We promise to give you money in a year’s time – you may find it a little unkind to deal with a promise. But if they say, we'll put the money in the banks, and then you'll get a guarantee that you'll be paid that money in a year – yes, then there's a much, much more security for the country that's got the bill. This isn't something like the government pusher, it's something we have a big decision that we're going to do. The OECD is now critical of this way of doing it, but that's something I think we have broad support in the Great Britain to do. There's the disagreement right now, and we're going to keep the Storting updated. But it is not difficult to understand that Brazil would rather have a note of debt, than to have a warrant of commitments from Stortinget. We need food, as I said -- we need food, Malawi needs food. Focusing on food security with a focus on agriculture and fisheries focuses on adaptation to climate change and prevention. I was just out there and launched Norway's new food safety strategy, which is a good example of a lot related to many. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Environment. At the same time, we see that the world is changing. In 1990, there were 90 p.m. of the world's poor in low-income countries. Now this number is reduced to less than 30 pst, while over 70 pst. of the world's poor live in middle-income countries. This must mean something for the way we conduct development policy. We cannot just pursue development policies towards those countries where 30 pst. of the poorest living - we must have a development policy that also addresses the middle-income countries, where 70 pst. by the poorest living. If we don't, and instead, we get into the poorest countries, as I feel Right proposes, yes, then we're going to fail 70 pst. by the poorest in the world. The fact that the poor live in middle-income countries is not because they have moved, but because many countries have experienced significant economic growth and have been upgraded from low-income countries to middle-income countries. The growth that has been in the world has given rise to poverty reduction in many places, especially in China. In sub-Saharan Africa, the proportion of poor people has fallen, but a high population growth — about 2.5 pst. – has contributed to the fact that the number of poor has increased from 1990 to today. A second and more global move is that inequalities within countries have increased. And this is my developmental heartchild – ensuring fair distribution in countries, ensuring that countries have a fair distribution policy. Because we know that fair distribution leads to people getting out of poverty, it moves on power, it moves on money, and it facilitates more trust between people, and more trust between people facilitates more growth. That is why I am very pleased to present the big message to the spring, which we will have the opportunity to have a fresh debate on here, namely the big message of fair distribution, because we want to show that solidarity works – solidarity between rich countries and poor countries, but also solidarity between rich people and poor people in the same country. Intermediate countries include a large group, from countries such as Zambia and Ghana, which have just crossed the border from being low-income countries to far more prosperous countries such as South Africa and Brazil. In general, middle-income countries will have far greater opportunities than low-income countries themselves to combat poverty among their own population. And when I'm concerned with fairer distribution and the poor in middle-income countries, that doesn't mean that I think Norway should assume a great responsibility for the poor in these countries. I believe that we should help countries – who themselves want to pursue a policy of distribution – to do things properly. I was just in South Africa, where the differences are enormous. I experience, as others describe, South Africa as an unexposed bomb. They have unemployment among young people in line with what they have in southern Europe, at over 50 p.p., and they have huge differences. Here, something has to be done to get a fair distribution, and they themselves are interested in it. They want to listen to us and cooperate with us, and they even said that they view the Scandinavian countries as a model. I have submitted a development budget from the government on the other side of 30 billion. kr. It's a whole percent of our own gross national income, and it makes me proud. It makes me proud because we are one of the five countries in the world who actually keep our promises to spend a share of our money on development, and it also makes us at the top of the world – as one of the two strongest countries combined.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e901	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e904	It's true that under 30 pst. of the world’s poor live in Africa — indeed, there are more poor people living in India than in Africa. There's some of the explanation. But the question I would like to ask is poverty reduction in general. In budgetary question No 289 from the Progress Party, for the 2010 state budget, the U.D. says that all Norwegian aid should contribute to poverty reduction. In 2011, money was given, among others. to a gospel concert in Tanzania and to a European film festival. It has also been given in the past to folk dance groups in Sri Lanka. Is this poverty-reducing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e911	In contrast to the Advancement Party, I believe that culture actually makes people happier and can create development for people. The prerequisite for qualified assistance is for developing countries and countries that have been approved for this, and within those countries there is a wide range of measures. Exchanges, such as: through the Peace Corps, enriches — in addition to enriching people from Norway — of course also people and creates development for people in the countries with which we work. When I was in Malawi, I met young musicians from Malawi who had exchanges in charge of the Peace Corps with young musicians from Norway. There is no doubt that this has an impact on the culture of the country. I think that cultural development and cultural exchange are important, and we will later present our own big message on culture, which is about development policy and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e918	These are probably nice things, but there is still some doubt about whether there is poverty-reducing. But I have one question for you: the Minister of Aid's predecessor, Erik Solheim, said in Dagbladet on 29 November last, under the heading 'Business better than assistance'. He is quoted as saying: 'Minister of Aid Erik Solheim believes that business – not aid – will be Africa's rescue'. Does the Minister of Aid agree with his predecessor here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e925	Yes. There is no doubt that economic growth and development are crucial in getting rid of poverty. But what's a little surprising to me is that the Progress Party seems to be living in the delusion that just you invest in business, things go by themselves. My impression is – as Morten Höglund mentioned earlier here today – that there are an incredible number of reasons for this, for example. some poor countries have no particular trade with Norway. I have a list here of countries that almost have no trade with Norway, although they have zero customs duties for Norway, and that is among other things. because they lack access to energy and they do not have an effective bureaucracy. Effective bureaucracy is one of the amazing things we have here in Norway, and it's one of the most important prerequisites for getting to the trade, business development and all of that. Having roads that are good and that work, and having a good cooperation with their neighbours, is incredibly important – all these things are important to create development and business, as well as investments, where we double... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e930	One fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions are caused by the destruction of rainforests and other tropical forests. That's why the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, were the proponents for this to be part of the climate agreement. Now I stand here with the document showing the overview of planned Norwegian support for 2012 and real Norwegian support paid as of 29 October 2012. And there are major differences: in Indonesia, among other things, there is a planned aid of 400 million. NOK, and it's paid less than SEK 3 million. kr. For Brazil, the total ‘margined’ is 2,65 billion. SEK to Brazil and the Amazon Fund, and EUR 655 million has been paid. kr. Now there's going to be another billion. We do not disagree with the importance of this, but we disagree when we are going to budget. On the right, the OECD and DAC criteria, and therefore my question becomes to the Minister for Development: why is it so important for you and the government to undermine the OECD criteria for assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e937	I just answered that. It is no more important for me than it is for the Right to ‘erode’ the criteria of the OECD/DAC. The point is that Stortinget agrees that we are complying with Brazil's wish to ensure that we provide guarantees for the money that we have said we will give to Brazil. So the Amazon Fund is slowing down in implementing projects, it's taking its time. But I have to admit that if I had been a Brazilian, I would also have thought it was more elated to have a debt note scheme, a guarantee from the Norwegian state, than to be dependent on the Norwegian state saying yes, there will be money later, just wait, it will come on a later budget. Because we see so many times in the aid world that many make promises, but not everyone keeps the promises. But it's clear that we've told the Storting that we're going to keep the Storting up-to-date on how it goes in the discussion between us and the OECD/DAC about what kind of arrangements you want to approve for the payment of aid. It is important to stress that there is no disagreement that the money that goes to the forest is approved as assistance, but there is disagreement about how it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e944	The disagreement here is pretty obvious, because while the Right wants to stand up for the criteria, the Council of State wants to erode them. This ejaculation will also have consequences in the long term. Firstly, there will be increased focus on forest and climate action, and it will take money from other areas of the development budget. It's one of the problems of having a clearly defined 1 pst. goal, that you have to relate to, and if there's something more that gets, there's something else that gets less. The right focus in development policy is as much progress as possible, and that is one of the obvious examples of how we see a disagreement today between today's government and the Right. The question back to the Minister of Development, perhaps a little bit more eaten, must be: why is the Council of State agreeing to erode it? Is it just to reach its own 1 pst. goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e951	Firstly, I would like to say that the Right's policy is that everyone should get less through the way they operate budgetary policies by cutting aid projects as they do. That is what they propose in this year's budget, a cut of 1.5 billion. kr. The progress party hangs on with a cut that is much higher than that, over 20 pst. It's the cut-off policy of the right: take from those who are the poorest in the world, and instead use the money to give taxes in Norway. There's a right-hand side policy that has to stand for. In fact, I want to go so far as to say that I distance myself from a description of what we're doing – and that's the decision of the Stortinge – to have a bond arrangement with Brazil, as a breach of the OECD/DAC regime. We have said that we will, of course, follow the OECD/DAC rules, because we are not engaged in eroding the legislation. One way this could have been sorted out was just to put this money through the World Bank before we sent it on to Brazil. It would be fully possible to do so, and in line with the legislation, but it is not the scheme chosen by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e958	Over to something else. A few weeks ago I read an interesting article in the newspaper. There, the Secretary-General of the aid organisation Plan Norway, Helen Bjørnøy, wrote a dedicated contribution to strengthening Norwegian education assistance. She pointed out that a unanimous foreign committee had asked for this several times. Nevertheless, the share of education aid has fallen sharply under the red-green government. Education was also removed as a priority bet area by the same government. Helen Bjørnøy writes: ‘Last year, however, training assistance was almost 150 million lower than when the government took over.’ I have noticed with pleasure that the new Minister for Development has suggested more positive lines of education in Norwegian development policy. There's a lot to do again, and the Christian People's Party will certainly strengthen the effort strongly for school for everyone. Will the State Council present an action plan to increase the share of education assistance in Norwegian aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e969	I thank you for the question, and I fully share the representative's view that education assistance is important. I want to say that this is one of the thousand-year-olds, setting goals for kids to get school, and it actually worked out very well. We've got a lot more kids in school in many countries, including countries where we're in and working together, and we see that when we spend money, some countries follow. One example is Tanzania, where we have increased our investment in education aid, and we have seen that the Tanzanian authorities themselves have made more money. That's the broad trend. I think it's quite okay that the Christian People's Party prioritises spending more money on education assistance. We've been thinking: let's focus education aid on girls and conflict areas, and then we spend some other aid money just to increase the income of countries through the development tax, oil for development and other programmes to make sure that countries are able to use their own money for education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e976	Governments are concerned that we should not forget the middle-income countries. I totally agree. Why, then, does the government not want to be with and open to give trade relief to middle-income countries, as we have suggested a number of times? The Council of State itself pointed out that several of the MUL countries with zero customs duties are unable to exploit it — unfortunately. We have no effect on the desire for more trade with developing countries. Why not take in the context that the Council of State Eidsvoll Holmås calls for in other contexts, also in the field of trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e983	I'm very pleased with that question, because it's a very good debate. I think so, and that is also the government's policy: in two rounds we have just looked at how we can change those arrangements, expand the GSP mechanisms we have – that is, the trade access arrangements we have had for the poorest countries and for the lower middle-income countries – to give more access. That is why we have in the budget for this year – we already have zero customs duties for those who are least developed – extended customs access to industrial products plus a number of agricultural products for the lower middle-income countries. Should we give zero to all, also to the higher middle-income countries, I think two things would happen. One is that there would be a real attack on Norwegian agriculture, because Norwegian agriculture would be out of competition in a number of areas. I don't want to. That is what the representative of the Progress Party wants. But the second part is that it would weaken the benefit of the lower middle-income countries and the poorest countries. That's why we're not in favour of such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e990	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e993	The northern regions are the government's main investment area. It has been for the sitting government, and it will be for the future. The overall objective is to increase knowledge, activity and presence in the north and to provide the basis for sustainable economic and social development in the years to come. Here we've achieved a lot already in the seven years we've been in power. But military presence is also important, and it's part of the government's Northern Territory operation. The government is now also adding to the increased staffing and continuation of the good levels of training and practice for the Northern Norway Brigades. The phase-in of corvettes and frigates provides a modern and reinforced maritime defence with significant operational impact and increased presence in the north. We also see how the activity of the Coast Guard in the northern seas is now given high priority. Air defence has preparedness, monitoring and training activities in the northern regions and continues to follow it up. In other words, the Nordgebietsbetingen also maintains knowledge, research and preparedness in the north. We have also been given the most important of everything in place, namely a dividing line with Russia, and the Arctic Council is now strengthened and established in Tromsø. Next year's budget has the North Region bet – no doubt about it. But the Northern Region bet is not an action package – and I would like to stress it – just for North Norway. The Nordgebiet bet shall create values and a bet for Norway as a whole. Svalbard policy will become more important and important in the coming years. Developments in these areas shall take place in a sound, peaceful and sustainable manner. We must therefore also take the initiative here to continue the consistent and firm management of the Svalbard Treaty and to maintain it which means control and that the Treaty is being complied with. In doing so, we maintain the unique wilderness nature in the area, and we also maintain the Norwegian society on this island group, and our policy is firm in the years to come. As you know, Article 8 of the Svalbard Treaty also requires us to deal with the svalbard budget here in the Storting today. It has to do with taxes and taxes. We note that this year the swallowing budget is rising by 8.1 pst. It is a significant increase – to 317.3 million. kr. We have now increased activity on the island group, and strengthening, among other things. the rescue helicopter service is very important. I refer here to the international cooperation agreement that has just been concluded with these seven countries in order to establish this. We follow up on the 2013 budget and strengthen the rescue helicopter service. The release time for the reserve helicopter is now reduced from 12 to 2 hours, and that is a very important bet. We are betting on the completion of hangars on Svalbard for this purpose. The loss service is also strengthened by entering the unloading service throughout Svalbard from 1 July 2012. Clearly, there will be important discussions in the future in the north. It is increasingly interesting for the international community, and it is now developing great opportunities in the economic field as well. That's why it's important, as the red-green government is now doing, to systematically grasp this politically important area for us and make proper defence priorities. Svalbard policy is important in this way. The discussion will now be on the arctic cooperation of the future between the nations that have presence and great interest up there, and how we can develop this cooperation. It really needs to be put in place and put into practice. We're on the right track with that. These are the economic opportunities in the Arctic and the living conditions of the people who will live in these areas, the discussions will take place in the future. That's what we're looking forward to. The government has set up a systematic arrangement for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1012	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1015	Cyber defence has a large and important responsibility across all arms. This is an area of strong development, and a robust and sustainable professional environment is crucial to the defence's ability to address the challenges that may arise. The cyber defence – formerly the information structure of the defence – shall further develop the defence link and support operations at home and outside. They shall provide defensive measures against digital attacks against the ICT systems of the Defence Forces and ensure operations in the digital space – all of this to demanding and highly resource-intensive actors in an enemy image where the integrity of the country can also be strongly exposed in peacetime. It goes without saying that here we need a professional environment with the highest competence and maximum performance. Cyberspace is a new potential battlefield. Here, the arms race in terms of technological competence and innovation is still under way, and it is moving at a rushing pace. For any modern society where computer technology controls an increasingly large part of our daily lives, it is essential to be ahead of technological developments in terms of defence and security in general. ICT offers great opportunities, but it's also an Achilles heel when it's out of play. The size has therefore been concerned with building a powerful environment through a collection of resources for this area at Jørstadmoen. It is positive that we now see a good development in capacity building, and it was an important and necessary step that Chief INI came into place in this professional environment, as it has been discussed in several rounds in this room. Today, the cyberdefense is centralised on two main bases, Jørstadmoen and Kolsås respectively. On the right, it is concerned that centralised ICT functions on Kolsås are moved as far as possible to Jørstadmoen during the long term. Such a collection will obviously have to go over some time, and that's exactly why it is now important to get started. Unfortunately, there is another impression that the government refuses to take the role that is driving this. It took quite a while for Chief INI to be moved, and despite the goals of the Stortinget to agree, to have been written into as long-term as government statements, we have not seen very strong structural changes since the location of the management function came into place. Right will be a driver in this work. It also appears to be very positive in the case of Nordic cooperation in the field of defence, and supports it. I would like to mention, when I now talk about cyber defence, that we believe it is important that Nordic cooperation also comes into place in relation to this part of defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1037	The strategic importance of the northern regions is beyond doubt. The value of the North's natural resources is increasing with historically high annual classes of fish. At the same time, the pursuit of oil and gas in our northernmost seas is intensified, and several promising findings have been made. The Goliath field is approaching production start, and the interest for the 22nd concession round is record high. Established oil companies notify comeback in the Barents Sea, and new companies sign up for the competition for promising exploration sites in the north. This development, together with a rapid increase in the number of voyages through the north-east sea route, illustrates the importance of the presence of the Coast Guard and the need for more sailing days. The Coast Guard has undergone extensive modernisation and is Norway's leading tool for effective resource monitoring and control in Norwegian sea areas. When an overall committee says that the activity of the Coast Guard in our northern waters should be prioritised and that regular inspection activities are essential to prevent illegal fishing, it is rather alarming that the government’s 2013 draft budget means reduced operating resources to the Coast Guard. On the contrary, the right considers that it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of the Coast Guard to exercise sovereignty and authority in Norwegian sea areas. That is why we have proposed 50 million. kr in increased means of operation for the Coast Guard. The right is concerned that the Coast Guard must operate more, not less. Coast Guards must also be present along the Norwegian coast, as an important element of coastal preparedness. Right, it's critical that the government hasn't put in place a new maritime helicopter for the Coast Guard. The fact is that the Coast Guard now only has one Lynx helicopter with very low availability, while the assumption is that four out of nine seagoing coastguard vessels will have helicopters on board. At least as critical is the fact that 50-year-old rescue helicopters have not yet been replaced. This fall we have had two very serious episodes in the Barents Sea with total failure of the rescue helicopter preparedness. This testifies to a disastrously weakened preparedness, which today's government must bear a primary responsibility for it. So after almost eight years of red-green government, we're left with a rescue helicopter park all the way on the rim and a coastguard with one helicopter on the split. It is very alarming and serious when key preparedness elements fail fatally, and even more serious when this occurs at a time when there is a great and growing need to step up preparedness, with increasing activity in the north. Therefore, the Right now calls for immediate solutions both to ensure good preparedness and to enable the Coast Guard to perform its tasks in a more reassuring way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1056	I feel the need to link some comments to the government's treatment of the Voluntary Sniper Service. In the government's draft budget for the current year, a significant cut in support for the organisation was proposed, but a solid commitment from Skyttervesen's members around the country and the good dialogue with the depositors resulted in the Stortinget maintaining the level of support also in the current year. At the same time, the Committee provided for the transfer and adaptation of the Skyttervesen to new grant criteria. The Voluntary Sniper Service took the challenge seriously and immediately contacted the Ministry to clarify what expectations they would meet in their further work. They also started work on putting in place a new long-term plan. The challenge, however, was that contact with the Ministry did not result in feedback and repeated requests had to be made. It is very strange, then, that the government also proposes in the budget for next year the same cut as last year, without the government itself having followed up the dialogue with the Skyttervesen in such a way that they could develop their long-term plans and prepare migration to the organisation on the basis of clear orders. The central party politicians have been heard in their support of the Skyttervessen, but have once again shown that there is no link between the big words and the policy of the majority. It's disappointing. The centre party and the other government parties have probably had a bad conscience, since they are now returning some of the cuts in the budget procedure. But what does it do when the government has failed to provide the shooters with the basis for reorganization and adaptation? Once again, the majority proposes dialogue on future organisation. Do they intend to follow up this time? Today, the Voluntary Sniper Service has 140,000 members organized in over 800 local shooting teams, and they carry out a very important role for society. This is done not least through proper weapon training and significant assistance for instruction and training in parts of the Defence. Of course, this extensive activity needs a predictable framework. They don't get that from the government. Therefore, the right will maintain the current level of grants and have reduced the cut to the organisation in its alternative budget. As a follow-up, we will – in good dialogue with the Skyttervesen – assess how the organisation's structure and activity can be streamlined and improved, including with a view to finding new sources of income and adapting its operation to a new allocation regime. The current support scheme cannot be expected in the future, but changes must nevertheless take place over time and in close dialogue with the organisation. It is to take seriously an important and socially beneficial organisation such as the Voluntary Sniper Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1071	The chairman of the Committee today presented some concerns around the world in the morning. There is no doubt that we are not getting peace in the world. Maybe we wouldn't have believed that, even though some people did it in their time. Egypt, Syria, Israel, Palestine, Belarus, Ukraine – no, it is far from becoming peace in the world. Although it seems pretty peaceful in our little corner, it's now that in the historical context, the sixty-year period we've now had is very peaceful here, very short. It's very short, so things can change. It is not the great disagreement between the Labour Party's policy and the Right's policy on the defence and foreign side, although the representative Myrli earlier today stated that the Right had a misdemeanour description that was missing. I don't seem to have noticed that it was as bad as he meant here, but the Right has – in its alternative budget – granted at the top of half a billion more. It's probably done at least, too, if we're going to be able to maintain the capacity we have today. The problem is often related to the fact that we have been good at buying material, but that we are not so good at giving money to train with it and using it. There is some of the main problem issue that at least I seem to look after having been in the defence structure for 40 years – in the past. This is in particular the operational capacity we are talking about here – more recruitment will lead to increased operational capability. We see that many young people today go into other professions, so we need to have a personnel policy and a pay policy in the Defense that makes it attractive. That's why we're looking forward to the investigation that's now being launched in that very area. There are a few things that are mentioned, which also concern me a little bit. One is the training opportunity, and then especially related to the Maritime Defense and the frigates. A mariner told me the other day that ‘I don’t know a cruise ship that buys five boats and uses two’. Now maybe we'll use some three, but at least it's worrying. We used to have a staff that could be taught and go into that piece, but we don't have that anymore, so it's going to be a lot more than three of these frigates, anyway, for the next 10–15–20 years. The second is the investment in the fighter planes, which I'm very pleased with. But the fact that it has to be financed by 9 billion. kr within the framework, we are afraid becomes a very heavy burden on the Defense, unless we can find a completely different level of general transfers to the Defence during the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1085	The situation in the Middle East is conflictful and tense. A brutal civil war in Syria has shown the brutal face of the Assad regime. The number of civilian deaths is large. In Egypt, there is a dispute about what democracy and human rights are meant to mean. In the last few days, there have been major public protests, including: in Cairo. The Coptic Christian minority and other groups are deeply concerned. Many fear that Muslim brotherhood — and even more so the extreme salafists — will introduce an authoritarian Islamist social system. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway must have a clear and strong voice in support of human rights, minority protection and religious freedom. With regard to the relationship between Israel and the Palestinian territories, continued rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip against Israel led to a new war in November. We will give tribute to Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide for his clear determination in that situation that Israel has the right to defend itself against such missile attacks. From the Christian People's Party's side, we made extensive remarks about the relationship between Israel and the Palestinians in the budgetary position. We are pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party have joined these remarks, which we had hoped the government parties could also do. For those who work for reconciliation and peace, it is a problem that we are still finding elements of homage to terrorism, hate propaganda and antisemitism in Palestinian schools, television programmes, youth and sports events. It weakens the work of attitudes that can provide a basis for reconciliation and a peaceful resolution of conflicts. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore natural to support the three Middle East-related proposals, as previously commented. An administrative audit of assistance to the area will be useful. We should not, of course, support education with hate propaganda and antisemitism from Norway, but we should clearly say that such propaganda must leave schools, children's television and sports events if they are to receive support from Norway. It must be a clear Norwegian line that we actively counter discrimination against Israel in international forums and organisations. Unfortunately, we all too often experience the use of two standards – one for Israel and one for others. The road to peace goes through honest negotiations between Israel and legitimate Palestinian representatives. There is no dangerous road to peace if – like Hamas – you demand that the State of Israel have no right to exist. A solution requires mutual recognition so that the Israelis and Palestinians can live in peace as good neighbours. A solution to the conflict between Israel and Palestine imposes great demands on both parties, and in fact not only on the two – it is being countered by others, such as Hamas and Hezbollah. Finally, let me say that I am pleased with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech, and especially about the Middle East. I noticed formulations that I saw as a good contribution to a balanced policy that is close to the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1102	It was the representative of Sverre Myrli who made me ask for a little comment in this debate. He wonders why some of us are concerned about increasing defence appropriations and even seeing them in the context of the percentage share of gross domestic product, while we have the very opposite approach in terms of aid appropriations. I'll explain. We in the Progress Party have great faith – also with the government that is now in place – in the fact that appropriations for defence purposes above the defence budget go to sensible and wise projects that strengthen Norway's defence capabilities and capabilities. In the case of u-help, the picture is quite different. As I was in my main post: it's very good unhelping work done in the world, but it's also examples of the opposite. For example, the fact that logging is difficult to implement has to do with the fact that it is very quickly done in a situation where it is being cheated, and how corruption and uncertainty around e.g. evaluation of the measures enables the results of the forestry effort to be very brief in relation to the amounts allocated. If we look at how life unfolds in the presidential environment of many of Africa’s poorest countries, we are struck by the fact that the wealth of the wealthiest in Africa is extremely high, suspiciously high, considering that countries have virtually no tax revenue or export income — but that countries get a lot of money to help. When corrupt leaders act with some budgets around their government members – and the management for the rest – we see that this is obviously not what the Minister for Aid says, that appropriations for the aid budget are giving money to the poor. Unfortunately, there is reason to fear that much of the unhelpful money is causing European business to receive more orders for BMWs and more champagne. That's not exactly what there's a shortage in Africa today. Finally, the Minister of Assistance will not reduce the rates of customs duties on middle-income countries, because he believes it will harm the MUL countries. That's not right. The progress party thinks it is wrong. We have evidence of that through the Center for Global Development, which means exactly the same thing as us. Therefore, it is appropriate to reduce the rates of duty applicable to middle-income countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1113	Unfortunately, I have to go back to the comparisons of numbers, since the Right Numbers were rejected by both the Minister of Defence and the Workers' Party's Defence Policy spokesman. In our budget letter to the Ministry of Finance, we asked for a percentage of the real growth in the defence budget, compared to the real growth in the total state budgets for the period 2006–2012. The answer from the Ministry of Finance is correct, but I don't know if you count completely differently in the Ministry of Defence. I'm sure others will be able to answer that. But the answer from the Ministry of Finance is: ‘The table below shows the percentage of annual real changes in appropriations [[defined as changes excluding price and salary increases and other technical changes]] The table shows that in 2007 we had a negative change in funding for defence at 1,19 p.m., in 2008 at 0,56 p.m. and in 2011 at 0,26 pst. Then there's a bit of a bit of a bit of a harpsichord in that we also allow ourselves to refer to the defence's budgetary priorities compared to the gross domestic product. We are not entirely on the ground, I suppose, when we are in good tradition and in line with what Norway in its NATO membership has chosen as a clearly defined objective, we believe that the share of GDP in the defence budget should be measured as most relevant. This has been Norwegian policy for many years. It is therefore disappointing that in recent years it has been seen that the defence has been the budget line of all the departments that have had the lowest priority. The right does not conceal that we prioritise defence higher than assistance. So far, most other parties have. But I stress that it may not be that long until we see that the aid budget returns to the defence budget if today's development is to continue. There might not be any reason to worry about it. But it does not, as someone tries to do, compare us to the financial crisis countries in the south, in a picture where we have to take greater responsibility for ourselves. We need to prioritise our own security more, because we can't rely on our alliance partners to the same extent as before, which are in a different economic situation than we are. This is not a black paint. It's not a beauty painting either. We have chosen to listen to the many proud people associated with the Norwegian defence – people who are both proud and motivated, but who would like to practice and train and be better equipped for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1131	In the future, we need to think in full, make best use of resources and not build up unnecessary parallel structures and build up any mental barriers that still exist between defence and justice. A State Secretary in the Justice Department should not have any prominent role in the command line on helicopter assistance in the event of threats to the opening of the Storting. There is a need for legislative decisions setting the limits on the use of military resources to civilians in peacetime. The fact that the processes of sending helicopters to Afghanistan and the change in structures related to the police helicopter were not taken into account, and the deterioration in preparedness this combined meant at home, was not communicated particularly clearly. It's an example that we have to realize that preparedness costs, and we have to be honest about it. Now that we still lack several thousand policemen with the ability to carry weapons because they have lost their operational capability, it still means that we cannot secure buildings after a terrorist attack. Then others have to do it, and it has to happen quickly. And the police and the justice authorities have to admit it, rather than give a signed picture of what you're capable of. We have to recognise what are our total weaknesses in the run-up to a possible new terrorist act. When e.g. The fire service, which was heroes, still started after an evaluation of what could have gone wrong, it is good. Others who may feel acquitted in the light of the criticism of the police should consider, because it is the total preparedness of society that is interesting, not paper preparedness or sector preparedness. For this reason, in particular in the rise in police and defence borders, the Right is placing increased appropriations in the budget to improve preparedness. It's important to know what capacities we've actually seen. What's going to work? What doesn't work? It's not about division of responsibilities, it's about division of tasks. Anti-terrorism is the responsibility of the police, but the police must be able to use the defence resources more easily than at present. Then we need a clearer definition of police, defence and others tasks. The next attack on Norway is probably not going to happen in Grubbegata. It's probably not going to happen in a street at all. For this reason, over several years, the Right has asked questions about Norway with sufficient security related to the cyber area. The answer is no. The national information security strategy was formulated in 2003. The national guidelines on information security expired in 2010 and responsibility is allocated to 11 ministries. We are not talking about if, but when Norway can be hit by cybercrime and terror via data. Finally, some red-greens criticised some parties for not being involved in sexual mutilation abroad. Some representatives of parties here are very concerned about combating HIV abroad, but unfortunately it seems that HIV numbers in Norway will increase because there is no strategy to combat it at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1146	It was one of the speakers earlier in the debate that suggested that I had said that everything was good in the Norwegian defence. I don't think so. But there's a certain shade between that everything is miserable and that everything is perfect. Somewhere between there we are. Of course, the defense has challenges. There are challenges related to getting the crew trained well enough. There are challenges related to delivering the new NH90 helicopters, which we would have had a long time ago. There are challenges related to the recruitment of defence personnel, the recruitment of competent personnel, perhaps especially the Maritime Defence. The list can probably be done a lot longer. It's about money, yeah. But it's also about organization. I hardly believe that the Right Defence Budget, if it had been adopted today – I believe the increase is something like enormous 1.4 pst., and the Progress Party's increase something like 2.4 pst. – solves all the challenges facing Norwegian defence. And then by the right we've been presented for another calculation today. I don't know if that's the third or fourth way of calculating the defence budget. Now, the growth in the defence budget is compared to total growth in the state budget. So if we say that the growth in the state budget is 5 p.m., and the growth in the defence budget is 4.9 p.m., it's right-hand calculations cut in the defence budget. Let's end up with this number xersis. This dresses us badly, and it dresses all those who are happy in the defense, and those who work in the defense, badly. Let's end with this way of discussing such an important area as defence and security policy. There are challenges in defense. It is linked to organisation and conversion. There are challenges related to recruiting personnel. It will have ample opportunity to discuss the Stortinget in the new year, as it will have its own big message on it. These are also economic challenges. That is why we have chosen to increase the defence budgets over the last few years. I would ask the Minister of Defence to clarify what has now been said. Has there been a real growth in defence budgets in recent years, or has it not been? What has been the situation in e.g. the long-term planning period that we are now out of? 2012 is the last year of the four-year long-term period from 2009 to 2012. Has there been a real growth in the defence appropriations in this period, or has it not been?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1159	Our criticism of the progress party's cut in the aid budget is not a criticism of the value base of the Progress Party, which Morten Höglund should have asked. We're just pointing to the difference between the Advance Party's value base and ours. I don't doubt that the Progress Party wants economic growth in poor countries, but they want the market and capitalism, as Peter N. Myhre stressed, to do more of the job, and to make assistance less – and preferably as small as possible. It is fully in line with the policy of the party in other areas of national law, including: health policy. It's not a criticism of the value base, it's an indication of important political differences. At the same time, we see that the billions saved by this policy on the aid budget are more likely to be spent on other parts of the state budget, for example. by reducing the income of the country through tax cuts. So Peter N. Myhre said that the defense can't be in constant conversion. They ask what to add to ‘constant migration’. I want to say that the defense must be constantly in transition, in the sense that you have to look for better ways to use the resources. You have to convert to new technology that we're using, etc. It must also apply to all other public sector activities. It's no longer like we take a vault, and then it's kind of done for ten years. You have to keep doing that. It's done well in the long-term period we're leaving, and it's added up to the fact that they're going to continue. That's absolutely necessary. So just cards to Svein Harberg, who pointed to the Voluntary Sniper Service. I just remind you that the Bondevik government – well in the 2003 budget – proposed to cancel the entire grant to the Skyttervesen. So it's been exposed to greater dangers than the reduction you get from this year to next year. Then the representative Myraune said that he knew no shipowners who ordered five boats and used three. Well, there are two important differences on a shipowner and the Naval Defense. One is that when the boats to the shipowner sail, they make money. When the boats of the Naval Defense are sailing, they spend money. But the important thing is that when the Naval Defense must sail all its boats, it is not as peaceful in the surroundings as it is now. Let's not forget that. That's when the defense has to use everything they have, that we have times that we'd rather avoid. The most important thing, I think, in today's position and debate is that we see that the Progress Party and the Right are trying to carve together a common political platform as much as possible. As Skovholt Gitmark said, it promises good for future cooperation. That the Christian People's Party on a couple of girls is trying to push themselves in, I think they're going to regret when they see what the overall cut of aid involves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1174	There is no doubt that the powers of promise are already in force today in the field of the government's forestry policy. The Council of State is now trying to legitimise the pressure experienced by the OECD from Norway to change and erode the criteria. The Christian People's Party has not misunderstood. The Christian People's Party also has full support in this discussion. The core of the disagreement is not the debt-debt regime, it's a good arrangement. The core is also not a warrant for commitment, because it is also a good arrangement. It is about the time at which the payment takes place when it is to be categorised as assistance or not. Here the Christian People's Party and the Right Crystal stand on the OECD's adopted criteria, that it is when the developing country receives the money, and not when they enter the account in Norway's Bank. I find it wonderful to see the great enthusiasm of the government parties to change the criteria of the OECD and find only one logical explanation. It is that the 1pst target will not be achieved either in 2012 or – most likely – in 2013, unless the criteria are changed. It's symbol policy, and it's a symbol policy Right doesn't want to be part of it. Our development budget shall be the best possible development budget. There shall be a budget to help people to work long-term out of poverty and to contribute strongly to the realisation of human rights and democracy. We do not want to see the artificial inflating of the aid budget to which the government is now adding up. So to a point where I think we should all agree. There is no doubt that the vast majority of the world's poorest live in middle-income countries. Our – Right – development policy should help these people to work long-term out of poverty. It's essential. Nevertheless, the Right wants a geographical and thematic tipping of aid, as there are other instruments in development policy as well as in aid alone. It is these instruments that will work even better in middle-income countries than in LDCs and the poorest countries. Our priority of aid is for the poorest countries. Our priorities for development policy apply in a broader sense. Our idea is very simple: lasting out of poverty and the realization of human rights and democracy is the basis of a good development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1189	I thought I'd start by saying the last thing. It is fascinating when Peter Skovholt Gitmark believes that lack of policy towards the middle-income countries to help combat poverty as well as seems to be the answer from the Right in terms of middle-income countries and how to eliminate poverty there. Peter Skovholt Gitmark never takes the terms ‘fair distribution’ or ‘distribution policy’ into his mouth during this whole debate — not ‘distribution policy’, which is crucial to coping with poverty in middle-income countries. But the right is just as little concerned with fair distribution in Norway. The right is not concerned with fair distribution. Right is for a society of greater inequalities. That is why I do not believe that the Right's policy will help to eliminate poverty in middle-income countries. We, on the other hand, want to have a policy to combat poverty. We understand that the way it has to happen – in South Africa, in Brazil, in India, in a number of other middle-income countries – is through sharing policies. Therefore, it makes sense for us to contribute understanding and knowledge of how to tax. Mobilising income from their own societies helps to balance differences and to put in place good welfare systems. One of the things that is going on in developing countries is extremely low tax rates. In South Africa, the tax rate has fallen from 27 p.m. until 25 pst. In Norway we have well over 40 pst. In Europe, we are at the level where we are just using taxes to finance the welfare state and to get things done. The second thing we do that is important, and which is very central to the development of the Nordic model that countries like South Africa regard as an ideal, is a well-organised working life with wage negotiations in a well-organised framework, tripartite cooperation and social dialogue. This is missing in a number of countries. The drive to get this in place is extremely important if you're engaged in fair distribution, which is a sprout for further growth. It shows all the research we have. That is why I think these things are important. With regard to the criteria, we have always thought – and I have seen that it was also the position of the majority of the population when we adopted the schemes – that the day we provide a guarantee of payment of money to another country, it is good to carry this as assistance. This questions the OECD, and we have a dialogue with them and explain to them how our arrangements are. We're going to get an answer to that, and of course, we're going to keep the Storting up-to-date on how the process towards DAC goes on in this particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1204	I thought I'd say a few words about the defence budget. Unlike most people who had the word associated with the defence budget, and who have spoken about material, I thought I would talk about personnel. Then we're into it with the follow-up of our veterans. After World War II, more than 100,000 young men and women have participated in various world-based operations. Many of these have been subjected to very strong influences, and many of them again have major problems in converting to civil society and coming back. Someone wears it for many years, and someone unfortunately wears it for the rest of her life. We also get feedback on suicide. We see that there's suicide without one being caught up in health at all, and that's a big challenge. Here, the Stortinget and the government have a great responsibility. We're the ones who send them out, and we also have to realize that when a send young women and men out on international missions, this has a cost when one has them out, but it will also have a cost when they come back. Veterinary organisations have repeatedly pointed out failures in the management of labour and welfare staff involved in international operations. The criticism concerns lengthy processing time, too extensive documentation requirements, lack of internal coordination between different public agencies and lack of competence on the veterans’ situation and challenges. It is therefore necessary for serious damage, veterans and their relatives to be supported, so that they do not experience bureaucracy and form fields as an additional burden. Norwegian soldiers who become mentally and physically injured in the service for Norway must be kept on both medical and financial care and be offered appropriate follow-up for work and education. Society has a responsibility for that follow-up, and the responsibility rests with life. However, many things have improved. We have the Defense veterans' center on Bæria, which is making a great effort. I think it should be considered whether this should be further developed, and whether there should be a corresponding offer in other parts of the country. We also have a lot of voluntary organized supply for the veterans. Kronstad Headquarters in Hordaland is a good example of someone doing a great job for damaged veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1217	What strikes me with much of the argument about Peter N. Myhre and the Advancement Party is how sloppy they are about what kind of policy other countries should pursue. It is true that SV and the red-green alerts to implement a development policy based on human rights, democracy and fair distribution. However, the Progress Party has a normative approach to the prescription of seamless free trade. It is the solution in any case – away with development policy, away with aid and in with duty-free, unregulated free trade. It may be worth recalling that such an approach is not new. It's been tried before. There are many places where it has had very serious consequences. One example is Haiti, where the structural adjustment programme, which was the condition for the assistance of the international community, led to what could be called a disaster for jobs and food production. So I want to challenge the Progress Party and ask: does the Progress Party see any problems in cutting aid and saying: see free trade, as its solution? Does the Progress Party not see any problems with the imbalance that may arise then? Because it amazes me. Then I think the debate on middle-income countries is interesting. I have not yet heard the representative Gitmark or others from the Right explain what measures they intend to take to compensate for their quite extensive cuts in aid to non-African countries. That's significant, and it's going on throughout the way the Right Act now in the day. They say they won't have zero taxpayers in Norway, but they don't come up with the answers to how they're going to do it. They say that their removal of the property tax should not be at the expense of the municipalities, but they cannot explain how to compensate for the loss of income. They say they're for a strong civil society, but they don't say how to compensate for the large cut they propose in the information support. They do not have a policy plan to combat poverty in middle-income countries. The right says that development policy is more than just assistance, but when you look at the actual measures proposed and the consequences of it, it is just pure aid that is left. So it's cut in civil society and democracy, it's cut in peace and reconciliation, it's cut in disarmament, it's cut in the Peace Corps, it's cut in human rights in Latin America, which the right side usually tends to be very busy, and it's an increase of 40 million. kr to industrial development. It alone is far from sufficient to correct the effects of the extensive changes in Norwegian development policy proposed by the Right. I hear Right Say that development policy is more than assistance, but what I see when I read Right Policy, is that there is only aid left, in its most distasteful form. The red-green government has greater political ambitions than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1230	I just want to answer some of the things that have emerged in the debate. Firstly, in the case of the Coast Guard and the representative of Aspaker's claim of decline in that context, it is right that the allocation, i.e. the amount itself, is lower next year, but it is also explained why it is. It's because you've bought a ship and reversed a one-off grant, so the sailing pattern is going to be about the same level as this year. Looking at the increase in activity of the Coast Guard in the north, it has been growing significantly in recent years. To Hagesetter I would say that I very much agree with his description of the responsibility in the case of veterans. This is why the government has taken this very seriously through many actions from 2005, and we will continue to focus on improving the response of veterans in all sectors of the public sector and improving their interaction. So to this with the numbers in the question from the right: the numbers have changed from year to year, and there has been a decrease. The main reason why the budget went down from 2010 to 2011, as the representative of Kristiansen pointed out, was that the budget for operations abroad in 2011 was reduced as a result of the out-of-office arrangements. However, at the same time, it is important to point out that, through the financial year 2011, significant additional appropriations were allocated to operations abroad, so that the 2011 accounts were higher than in 2010. But it's not the most important thing. To answer the Myrlis question, the most important thing is that during this long-term planning period the government has followed up the increase in appropriations that we have said. We also answered to the right in answer to question No. 500. It says that in 2012, the budget has reached a level of 800 million. 2008-kronor above the level then. Together with the conversion of the defence – and this is actually quite important, because it concerns the political decisions that have been taken and the ability of the defence to convert – it is more than 1.5 billion. kr more to higher priority business and to increased purchasing power in 2012 than it was at the beginning of the long-term plan. So for the first time in several decades, the government and the Stortinget have followed up a long-term plan. That is good, and with the budget for 2012 and 2013, we will continue what we have said on the next long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1246	Let me just make a few comments to the State Council Holmås’ description of the disagreement we are now having between the OECD Development Committee and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of State. The core of the conflict between the OECD and the Government is not, although it is sometimes heard, whether Norway should be able to have a debt note system. It is whether Norway is to be authorised in the accounts of Norway’s Bank, which actually carried out transfers to developing countries – in other words, to have an amount approved as transferred assistance before it has actually been transferred. That's what the OECD thinks is a hollow out. That is what we – and I understand the Right – believe is a hollowing out of the code of approved ODA assistance. The case does not concern issues of either debt securities or warrants, but both – and. It is also used by the government in connection with, for example: the forest bet. It's just reading the government's own draft budget for next year. Of course, if the government wants to, it can maintain its bond regime. However, it cannot and should not try to obtain the funds as actually transferred assistance until it is actually the case. I think I have to say that I have a certain impression that the Council of State really understands this. However, he does not like the consequence, namely that aid statistics can then show that Norway does not transfer 1 pst. by GNI, because the payments did not come during the financial year when the money was granted. That's okay, but then he can say it. The presentation by the Council of State, which I – carefully said – seem unclear, is therefore more of an attempt to legitimize the pressure that I understand the government now has on the OECD to change the rules. I don't think it's the Right and Christian People's Party that has misunderstood this. On the other hand, we have seen what the conflict between the OECD and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actually about, and it is an attempt to water down the rules on what is being reported, and what can actually be said to have been transferred. We know that many countries are fighting with the OECD to find out if they can carry out assistance in one way or another. I think it might be a little bit alarming that there is a Norwegian red-green government that chooses to take a fight with the OECD at this point. Norway tends to relate to what the OECD uses, and does not contribute to the further dilution of the rules by other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1261	The representative of Skovholt Gitmark has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1264	Distribution without economic growth is redistribution of poverty. But fair distribution combined with economic growth is the strongest instrument to help people work long-term out of poverty. We need both parts, and we need a development policy that facilitates both. When the majority of the world's poor live in middle-income countries, we need a policy for that too. For the Right, it's about democratisation, it's about access to trade, equal rights to education and a strengthened civil society. These are appropriate instruments, but also combined with a separate national distribution policy. This is the sum of what Right wants to do in relation to the middle-income country. Let me also end by saying that in the case of civil society, the Right actually grants more money to civil society in developing countries and middle-income countries than the Government does – just for the sake of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1271	After all, at the end of the debate, we would like to focus on the message. Both the representative Svein Roald Hansen and the representative Serigstad Valen had an approach to our policies such as that it was almost a dull capitalism – that it was the only thing we wanted to present to the developing countries. We have tried to describe a balanced approach in which we also dose a large aid share. But when the representative Serigstad Valen says that we are so concerned about how these countries are going to set up their policies, I would like to reiterate that the SV's own government council in this area is very concerned with the level of taxation in these countries, of distribution. I'm not saying it's not important, but we all have an opinion about how these countries should and can work out of poverty. Yes, we are demanding in democracy, human rights and popular governance. We think it's important. We also believe that it is better that these countries have open markets, that they have a regulated market. That they have a healthy, sensible approach to these issues is also important. When you compare with the structure programs for Haiti, it's very far from what we want to take responsibility for. I also mentioned in my post that we want to focus on and learn from what has worked – what has been good – and then implement it further. We now see that we have even reached an agreement between the Progress Party and SV that economic growth is important. So I hope the representative Serigstad Valen did not mean that we should not promote economic growth. Also SV has realized that using that part of capitalism to lift people out of poverty yields results. In the past, there have been references to quotations from former State Councillor Solheim that just point that out. After many years in the subject he learned that business does more for the poor than assistance. That's some of what we want to take with us. It is not forcing a policy on people, but it has to do with providing an experience base that has worked elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1282	Both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are united about much in this setting, but then together with the Christian People's Party Right, it promotes an overall, alternative budget proposal. The representative Svein Roald Hansen can read that in the setting, pages 124 to 127. The representative Sverre Myrli was concerned that there must be a shade between that everything is perfect and that everything is black. Of course, everything is not black. We have a very well-functioning defense in many areas – especially thanks to very skilled soldiers who make an incredibly good effort, both at home and outside. But it might be a little reminder to the Minister of Defense, and I will now quote from her main post earlier today: ‘The government does not need to assess the situation in the Defence. It's just reading Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 and look at the presentations that are there, both in figures and in figures. Most curves point up – and some point up well.» That's kind of not how great it is. But the interesting thing in the debate on defence is not the structural tables. It's the real operational ability. What can we do with the capacities we have, when can we do that, and how long can we do that? It's not how many systems or platforms we have in the structure, how many frigates or how many planes, but how many are operational and available. We are concerned with the status in terms of manning and training. It is the one that is important at all times – not necessarily what we can get in six months. In the case of the actual increase in purchasing power of more than 568 million. I owe it to the Minister of Defence to draw attention to the fact that of the real applications for funding of 300 million. SEK for the 2013 budget is 211 of these millions securing office buildings in Oslo. Forty-five million. kr is the amount of money the defence retains the income generated by the seamen. So 45 million. So kr is an increased operational capability. That's not $300 million. Forty-five million. kr that can be used for enhanced operational capability. I also understand that sometimes it may be a little unpleasant to answer questions about the answer the Ministry of Defence has given. The only thing the Right did was to ask questions about the percentage real growth in the defence budget compared to the real growth in the overall state budget. The answer we got showed that there has been real decline, annual real allocation change, in three of the last five years. Why is it interesting to look at it? Of course, that's not the only goal of how it goes in the Defense – on the contrary. But that's interesting because the share of GDP as a given target, e.g. the total growth of GDP shows priority. That's what's interesting in this context, that year after year you have chosen not to give priority in the same way as GDP. And then the government's representatives have to make fun of it, but that's now the goal both NATO and Norway have chosen to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1300	I will first say at the end of this debate that I am pleased with the broad commitment that is here for human rights. The government has provided strong support. Then I made it clear that it does not mean that the Right has intended to strengthen the work of human rights. Even if the item marked Human Rights goes up by 100 million. kr, you cut the entire Latin America allocation of 200 million. DKK, of which 100 million. kr is granted human rights. Then it was also cut from the Right in the Asia appropriations, in fact considerably more than the Progress Party has had to cut in the Asia allocation. So, of course, the Right can say that what is left is to be used for human rights. That's why I can't prove that there's also going to be a cut in human rights. But it would be interesting to know what you want to cut. You can, for example: meet with the Advance Party and cut heavily in the Palestine allocation. I haven't heard that right-wing suggestion. You can step down the huge commitment we now have in Myanmar, which definitely has a human rights and democracy perspective because it is precisely about strengthening one of the most promising conversion processes in the world, or cutting off civil aid to Afghanistan, which also comes partly from the regional allocation for Asia. None of these cuts will be particularly good ideas, for precisely this kind of assistance, as well as being aid and sensible in itself, also gives us a significant foreign policy capital. Both the Right Party and my party have always been interested in having good relations with the Near Allies. I can refer again to my conversation with Hillary Clinton this day. It was almost entirely concerned with areas far away from Norway — to a very small extent about the bilateral relationship, it is very good, but about some concrete efforts far away. There was nothing in the relationship that would suggest that from such a central ally as the United States would look at a massive cut in the effort in those areas with special gentle eyes. Then I want to stress that it is important not to cut the outdoor appliance. The proposals to cut the U.D.'s operations, significant from the Advance Party and somewhat more moderate from the Right, within the so-called 02 area, must mean that we cut in the number of embassies. Now it's also true that we have just made adjustments to the embassy structure. It's not about increasing and increasing. We cut down some and build up others to change our engagement around the world. It is difficult to pursue a modern foreign policy without being present abroad. Then I think it is important to protect the outdoor equipment we have and use it in a constructive and creative way. Otherwise, I would like to say a sentence that I am happy for what has been said about the Middle East. There is a broad consensus in Norwegian Middle East policy – albeit not yet on the appropriations for Palestine – and I am pleased about that. It's good to bring them in for an important and demanding time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1315	Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice, and thus gets the word to a short remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1318	We get the overall answers from the Right, but not the concrete ones. We don't get the answers to what right will replace their cut with. If, for example: the Peace Corps and implement the Right Cut there will result in a reduction or reduction of exchanges within health institutions, business development, climate action and youth work. What I want is the Right answer to what measures they have to remedy this? Then there is a Latin America, where they want to cut our efforts in Haiti, which is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, Nicaragua, which is the region's second poorest country, Guatemala and Brazil, where we continue a decade-long commitment. The right does not respond to what they want to do with it. If we take the trip to Asia, it's the same picture there. The cuts in Bangladesh – where we have already agreed on contributions – do not have a right answer to what they want to compensate for. In addition to the fact that there will be a breach of contract, aging will only prove to be money released in order to meet own electoral commitments here domestically to completely different groups than poor people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1329	I just want to briefly record some things. I would like to say that the claim that business is better than assistance is a very daunting debate. It's obvious that business is better than assistance. That's what you're going to have in the longer term. But the prerequisite for managing business is in a lot of countries that you have assistance first. Let me take a very simple example: hydropower investment and power investment. A company to make power investments in Norway will initially charge 7 pst. returns or something like that to carry out such an investment. If you consider making exactly the same investment in a country like Liberia or Uganda, you will calculate between 15 pst. and 25 pst. returns – all of a sudden due to the functioning of the market. That's how capitalism works. If the risk is higher, a higher risk premium is also required. This is precisely the problem for a number of developing countries. They need a lot of investment, but there will be no investment. Why don't the investments come? Yes: uncertainty, corruption, lack of effective bureaucracy. When, for example, to rebuild Mount Coffee in Liberia, we find out in dialogue with the authorities where they have two geologists – two geologists who run this! They don't have competence. The idea and the idea that here we're just going to get rid of the market, so it's going well, is very daunting because it's obvious that you have to put in place basic social institutions. You have to have people who have skills before you are able to put in place a good deal of the investment that is needed. That is why I believe that the energy cuts to the Right are wrong. They tear away some of the basis for creating growth and development. I think the big cuts you make in a lot of countries are wrong. In Nepal, we have had a central role for decades. There is just one of the things that is at the centre, energy bet, on which the Progress Party supports us, is at the centre, and the work for human rights and democracy building has been very central. I don't understand why the Right believes it's right that we should cut in Nepal. So finally, I want to tell the representative, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, that it's not a mockery of the GDP target that lies there. But what's a little strange is that on the defence budget you have to have a GDP target completely independent of the security situation, given that it's a goal that, after all, was set in the time of the cold war. Regardless of the security situation, we have to have a GDP target in the defence budget. While on the aid budget, on the development budget, trying to deal with some of the major problems that lie in understanding the expanded security concept: climate change, civil war, conflicts and refugee flows — all those bits there — one will not have a percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1342	I have to comment on operational capabilities. It has been asked if it has improved. Then I have to refer again to the budget, on page 41. It is that in six out of eight areas, operational capacity has increased, in five out of the eight areas it is now ‘very good’, and in one area, which is actually quite important — ‘contribution to the collective defence of Norway and NATO’ — we have gone from ‘not satisfactory’ to ‘good’ from 2005 to 2011. It cannot be irrelevant given the state in which the defence is today. And it's not the government alone that sets operational capability, it's the head of defense and the defense that does itself. It is clear that good soldiers are important, but they are not detached from everything we have invested in capacities, training, practice – not least the exercises that are now much more complex than they have been before. These are the facts you can't get away from, no matter how much you try to figure out. Then I would like to say to the Right that you must not only read one of the answers you get to questions sent to the Ministry of Defence – you must read the answers to all the questions you have asked. Then you'll see that in the answer to question number. 500 stands out specifically how the efficiency measures and the 800 million. In addition, kr has increased the defence’s disposition in 2012 by 1.5 billion. kr. It's not necessarily, but it actually doesn't come of itself. It's not just because we're a rich country – it's also because we've been willing to make changes, take some tough thanks. And actually, it doesn't just help to make money – you also have to do the second part of the job, that's to make the changes. It would have been tempting in Norway, where, after all, we have money and are able to pay wages from year to year, not to do these conversions. But the government has actually also been willing to stand in that storm.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1351	The next speaker is Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, Chairman of the Committee. The President is obliged to draw attention to the fact that the chairmen of the Committee do not have unlimited access to 3 minute posts. For this reason, the representative Eriksen Soreide will keep an entry limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1357	In contrast to government councils that come to the Stortinget and have unlimited speaking time, therefore, the magnificence representatives do not have it. Just a few small things: one thing is that the energy cuts we're doing, first and foremost, are about the support of Ethiopia, and it's daren't be known to the Minister of Development as well. When it comes to what the Foreign Minister says about the outdoor apparatus, he is in his own post concerned with the importance of having a stomach. Then it might be important to have stomach problems even when comparing budgets. The Party of Advancement shall be entitled to an answer in its own right. They're making 172 million. SEK of a budget of 2 billion. kr. We'll cut $10 million. SEK of a budget of 2 billion. kr. I think it should be able to pass. I also believe that the foreign service will live well with it. We do not intend to cut support for Afghanistan, but we have said very clearly that we want to look at the evaluations that are now coming from the total Norwegian aid effort. It has been important for us to stress several times, and we are keen on the results of the evaluation and what it will mean for the device of Norwegian assistance in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1368	The President will stress that speaking time limitations are included in the Storting Rules of Procedure. The representative is, of course, free to submit amendments to the Committee now set up under the chairmanship of Mr Dagfinn Højbräten, to review the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. Ivar Kristiansen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1373	Then I think the Presidency on its own initiative should take into account the new sport introduced by government – after the opposition has used up its speaking time – allowing itself to present sharp attacks and ask questions to the opposition. This is an abuse of the possibility of state councils to inform. There's also some kind of abuse of the institution that this house is, by the fact that it's the Storting that should primarily be in the main seat. When the Minister of Assistance says that the Right is for a society with greater inequalities, and that the Right is not for fair distribution, we are not given the opportunity to correct this at all. It's almost like saying that SV is opposed to creating values, but they're to distribute them. Is it, then, that the Council of State Eidsvoll Holmås, who has voted against most of the income coming from the base, is to travel on the first class and distribute these incomes which he has voted against, should go to the state treasury?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1380	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1394	Mr Höglund has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1397	In short: it is essentially a unanimous attitude of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. I just want to refer to a couple of points. The Committee stresses the importance of providing evidence to those who actually provide the initial service in a way that demonstrates that society values what they do. Furthermore, the Committee is committed to and wishes to increase the status of those implementing the initial service, and is asked in a unanimous remark ‘The Government considers promoting a case of state-of-the-art measures’. I'm asking the Council of State to take it with me. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party then follow up a proposal from the Council of Protection Obligations to lift the compensation over time. We are promoting a proposal that I allow myself to comment on: that the service supplement is raised to 1 G, and that the distribution compensation is raised to 0.5 G over a period of five years, no later than 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1406	The representative of Morten Höglund has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1414	The size should vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e1421	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–15, by Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposals No. 16-20, by Mr Høglund, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 21 and 22, from Ine M. Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 21 and 22, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: Frame area 4 I [[Austria]] The State budget for 2013 is authorised under: Expenditure100Directorate of Administration and Maintenance can be transferred156 492 00070Compensation of damage to foreign embassies907 00071Various grants24 260 00072Help to Norwegian citizens abroad who are not seafarers154 000103Government joint appropriations for representation1Operating expenditure47 503 000104The Royal Family's official travel abroad1Operating expenditure8 981 000115Culture, Norway promotion and information purposes1Operating expenditure, can be used under Item 7027 363 00070Supplements for culture, Norway promotion and information purposes, can be transferred under Item 169 331 000116Participation in international organisations1 249 041 000117Effects may be transferred to the environment, UNDRAFT resources may be transferred to the environment and can be channelled to the budget. [[UN Women]] Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesInvestments3100Ministry of Foreign Affairs1Various fees at foreign stations14 899 0002Provides for foreign affairs at foreign stations102 433 0005Reflection of special broadcasts etc.7 068 000Total revenue124 400000 Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘These members will amend the 2013 Commitment Act in relation to the Government’s proposals in Framework Chapter 4. [[outer]] 166 item 73 with 400 million. $632 million. $1,032 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e3070	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–20, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the termination of the Multi-Annual Indicative Commitment Scheme to the UN Sub-Organisations.’; Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a report on progress in the reform process of the United Nations Department of Peace Operations [[DPKO]] Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make Norway’s contribution to the UN depending on the progress and results of the reform work of the organisation.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to base the principle of zero nominal growth in the UN budgets on the annual/two-year budgetary procedures of the organisation.’; Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to contribute to the preferential financing of new mandates and activities through the elimination of out-of-date, irrelevant or duplicate mandates.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e3106	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5–7 and 12, from the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up plans for the phasing-out of Norwegian aid in beneficiary countries where appropriate.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to establish an independent database for the ranking of relief and relief organisations in terms of performance and cost-effectiveness.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a ‘blacklist’ of the assistance organisations that do not take the corruption issue seriously and take appropriate measures to prevent corruption in the aid exposure.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Free Trade Agreement between EFTA/Norway and Colombia to be ratified by the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e3137	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 8 and 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish practices with independent evaluations of all Norwegian aid and Norwegian aid projects.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include the development of a viable business as an integral part of all development policy interventions’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up an expert group to assist developing countries in providing red tape and barriers to trade.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e3165	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–15, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in an administrative audit of Norwegian aid to the Palestinian self-government authorities.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop all assistance to the Palestinian self-government authorities which directly or indirectly support teaching with an anti-Israeli or anti-Semitic message.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to actively combat discrimination against Israel in international forums and organisations.’ The Christian People’s Party has announced its support for the proposals of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e3193	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 3, 10 and 11, from the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an external evaluation of all Norwegian peace and reconciliation initiatives over the last 30 years.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an evaluation of Norway’s participation in the UNHRC.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of projects and project partners supported by the EEA funds.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a trading facility to stimulate growth in the private business of Africa.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to launch a pre-project for increased food security in developing countries through trade in food and cereals.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e3232	It shall be counted over the framework area 4, I to XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e4923	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e4936	It shall be weighed over the frame area 8, I to and including IX. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e7378	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. Suggestion 1 reads: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to increase the service supplement to 1 G and to increase the distribution compensation to 0,5 G over a period of 5 years, by 2018 at the latest, and that future changes thereafter follow adjustments to the basic amount of public security [[G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-07.ana.ud795e7683	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
