ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e55	The called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Kjell Børre Hansen, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Jon Jäger Gåssvatn from the Advance Party Group from 5 December until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Østfold County, Erlend Wiborg, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on the 5th and 6th of December under the permission of the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, for welfare reasons. From other alternates of the Eastfold County, Monica Carmen Gåsvatn, there is an application for a waiver to meet in the Stortinget on the 5th and 6th of December under the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn's leave, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Eastfold County: Leif Willy Eriksen in the days of 5 and 6 December and Erlend Wiborg in the period from 7 December and until further notice:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e95	Leif Willy Eriksen is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform that the meeting is continuing beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e111	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e122	This year's budgetary position is marked by a clearer distinction between the government parties on the one hand and an overall opposition on the other. In my article I want to focus on what the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree on. I think it says a lot about what changes will come to health policy at a government change next autumn. The consensus is not just about scattered single points, but about all aspects of healthcare, priorities and system changes. I believe that consensus can be grouped under three main headings: a modern health system, better and more democratic governance, and the most important thing: a clearer prioritisation of patients sitting at the bottom of the table. I believe that the corporate reform has produced positive results when one compares with what it was like when 19 county municipalities were responsible for the specialist health service. But it is possible to do it better, and in some areas one has become hanging after. Today’s investment regime prevents necessary investments in modern hospital buildings. In Oslo, this is critical. This is due to lack of maintenance, many old buildings, strong population growth and the merger of hospitals. Elsewhere, as in Stavanger, it will be critical if today's regime sets the framework for the planning of new hospitals. In the case of ICT and medical-technical equipment, the situation is different in different parts of the country. In some places health care establishments are well-equipped, elsewhere not. In some places the municipalities are connected, but in most places they are not. In addition, there will be a need to bring this together nationally, not only within each region. The organisation also hangs again in old systems. Therefore, patient flow in hospitals is often poor, and serious errors occur as a result of patients being sent back and forth, especially in the context of cancer diagnosis. In these areas, the opposition has new ideas and better solutions in the budgetary position. We propose to change the investment regime for the large hospital investments, we have proposed our own financing scheme for ICT infrastructure in hospitals and municipalities, and we propose our own diagnostic centres, which will ensure that most patients have their diagnosis completed more quickly and can start treatment. A more modern health system will provide well-being that works. The division into four high-power health regions has led to differences in the interpretation and implementation of national health policies in the parts of the country. There have been major changes in the hospital structure and health care content. But health is politics. The population is therefore rightly responding to important changes being made without one being able to place elected representatives in charge. Local hospital administrators – HFs – feel that they are managed in detail by the regional level. The leaders are far away from those who work with the patients. The opposition proposes to establish an operational national health and hospital plan. It shall include, inter alia: minimum requirements for the key functions that must be present in the different types of hospitals and in the parts of the country. In the case of quality requirements, national coordination of important functions must be ensured, e.g.: ICT infrastructure, overview and prioritisation of major investments and needs for new hospitals. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party also agree to shut down regional health companies and move more power to the hospitals locally. There are more than 20 hospitals — HFs — in Norway, and we want to make them more independent and decentralise resources and power from regional health businesses to these governments and to the leaders locally. More than 13 times we have addressed in Stortinget the lack of planning and the situation we have in connection with the capital process. Every time we have received a response from the government that everything has been under control – they have followed the process carefully, and all the risks have been dealt with continuously. Now we've been told that this was not right, and the pipe has got a different sound. The government failed in its follow-up, risk moments were not adequately managed. One had no control. We are aware that patients have been injured and have lost their lives in hospitals during this period, and employees, patient representatives and relatives put this in context with these changes. An overall opposition requires an independent review of the capital process. Patients, relatives and employees are entitled to know about the lack of planning and the framework for the merger has compromised patient safety. The community needs to learn from the mistakes that have been made. The Minister of Health and Health requires transparency about the mistakes of hospitals. It's positive. But does the government dare to be transparent about errors that the government may be responsible for, and that may have affected patients? However, the most important thing that brings together the opposition is a clear priority for patients at the bottom of the health policy table today — addicts, mentally ill and people with chronic diseases in need of rehabilitation, elderly people in need of hospitalisation and those in need of a decent end of life. While the red-green government is responsible for the fact that the thickness of the wallet means more for which health care a sheep, the opposition prioritizes lifting the weakest patients. This year the government has given the addicts a triple sign. In 2012, the rule to ensure greater growth in treatment provision for drug addicts in the specialist healthcare service was removed in 2013 by EUR 330 million. Dr who is earmarked for the provision of drug addicts in municipalities, and then they present a drug report without ambitions for the future. Now we see good drug institutions that have had good results over the years being put down, even though nearly 3,000 are in line, and many want to go right to these institutions. The opposition suggests that hospital priority should be given to addicts. We donate money to maintain good treatment institutions, and we earmark money, so that municipalities can make an offer before and after treatment. Then we're going to raise our ambitions further when we're going to deal with the paper on drugs. Chronic illness and people who have undergone major surgery often get good help with the disease itself, but they do not get enough help to live with the disease or get back to life. This year, patient organisations had to use forces to fight the government's cut in treatment travel, and they won out. But they should have won with what an overall opposition proposes, namely a separate escalation plan for rehabilitation and habilitation. This weekend we read in the VG about Inger-Johanne Martens and her last days before death – a story that gripped many. We have to dry to talk about death. But we also have to admit that Norway is after giving people the opportunity for a worthy death. We're all different, even completely into death. This means that there is a need for a diversity of services. Hospice is part of this diversity. It exists in our neighbouring countries, but it is almost non-existent here in Norway. We lack competence and offer to children and palliation. If we're going to achieve the goal of full health care, there's a need to make it as easy for the private to participate in this task as it was when you were going to have full child care coverage. In Norway, we have a good health care system where many people get help. Security of assistance when you need treatment and care is a support bar in the Norwegian welfare model. At the same time, many of those who need the most help do not get what they need. This is serious. Drug addicts and mentally ill people do not receive sufficient help. The health system saves many lives, but often fails when there is a need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation to get life back. Cancer patients experience that diagnosis takes too long and lack of access to newer treatments. Many people wait a long time for simple intervention, even if there is free private capacity. Too many people are injured and die as a result of defects and deficiencies in the healthcare system. Right wants to take care of the value of everyone's right to the same health service, regardless of the economy. It's an important part of the Nordic model. If we're to succeed in helping patients who are the weakest, who are currently at the bottom of the health policy table, we're to give all the opportunities for equal health care, regardless of the thickness of the wallet, we're to get a more modern health care system, there's a need for new ideas and better solutions. I believe that today's setting makes it clear that the opposition collectively points out another direction that would have just solved these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e182	Right will have a national hospital plan to be adopted by the Stortinget. It means a concrete map of the country's hospital, a defined content of hospitals and a clear minimum standard. But the Right only tells half the truth, because next to a politically controlled public hospital sector, the Right will have a free drop of private, commercial hospital operations there, for example. large international groups with tax havens can settle down where they want to, treat the patients they find most profitable — and then, if approved, send the bill to the public. The question is, what is the point of a national hospital plan when only the public hospitals are to be included in this plan, while the private, commercial ones are to be allowed to do exactly what they want – settle down where they want, treat them at the expense of the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e191	In contrast to the current government, the Right does not have plans to remove the approval scheme for private hospitals. This means that private hospitals with Right in Government still have to go through a public authorisation that ensures that they have a quality and an offer that is for the benefit of patients. So it's like 80 pst. patients treated in Norway are treated acutely, and this occurs in public hospitals. This means that in general, all patients in Norway will have the main part of their health challenges solved in the public health system. As the representative heard in my post, our ambitions are primarily about how to develop the public health system. But then we believe that private, if the patient is given the opportunity to choose, can be an important contributor to providing people with faster health care and not least take the areas where cows appear. It was a success last Right put in government, and it's going to be a success again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e198	We note that the consensus presented by the opposition parties does not agree on what is the most radical and dramatic proposal for the Right: the so-called free treatment choice, which will open up massive privatisation in the Norwegian health system. We know that private, commercial healthcare offers are largely geared towards taking the kind of treatments, interventions and diagnostics that are most profitable. Can the representative Höie explain to us how to strengthen the situation of the most marginalised patients, with the most complex and unprofitable suffering, when, at the same time, a system will automatically lead to more of the budgets being used to treat the patients who pay first?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e205	This post could have been kept by SV when the Right got a pass for free hospital choice – it could have been kept by SV when the Right got a pass for individual medical deadlines. The type of objection has always been raised by SV when the Right has proposed to support the patient’s rights – and SV has always been wrong. What is also the case is that the patients most in need of free treatment are the patients I talked about most in my post – the addicts, who, with the Right Order, could still choose to receive treatment at Phoenix Haga. That means that it had actually saved this institution, unlike the red-green health politicians who put up flowers, but who really don't do anything. There has been the greatest need for provision for girls with eating disorders, who could then have traveled from all over the country to the best institutions we have in that area. They are today refused because of the regional borders. Not least, it had been of great importance to all those mentally ill who are in line, where the public offer is far too little effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e212	The use of private health insurance in the Nordic region has historically had an upturn when the right side has had power. Today, Norway is in fact significantly behind our Nordic neighbouring countries in this area, and only a small fraction of such health insurance is signed by private individuals in this country. This contrasts with the claim of the Right that we are fully involved in a classed society where people are probably content to have insurances for health care. The truth is that the vast majority of private health insurances we have in Norway are made up of companies that use such schemes primarily to attract attractive skills staff. In 2003, the Civilian Government, headed by the Minister of Finance of the Right, introduced tax exemptions for business-acquired health insurance. The question then is: why does the Right say today that one is against private health insurance, while a tax exemption introduced in 2003 to stimulate the purchase of the same insurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e221	It must be a misunderstanding. Right is not against private health insurance, but we're against a health service that leads to people needing private health insurance. There we see that the red-green health policy has increased the need for private health insurance, whether taken out directly in private or taken out through the enterprise. This is taken into account in the enterprise, and the enterprises respond as a result of the fact that there is something the employees want. It's not a luxury, as the representative Toppe is trying to present it as: The biggest player in this area says that since 2011, there have been 27 pst. by their customers, irrespective of whether they are business customers or individual customers, used health insurance to obtain the necessary health care. Instead of attacking the Right, a representative like Toppe should be deeply concerned that the government itself, in response to questions from the Right, answers that in the next year about 50,000 more people will take out private health insurance. It's a sign that people feel a need because they don't get needed health care in the public health system. The group that uses the most private, however, is the one that pays out of its own pocket.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e228	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e232	Good health and care services are an important foundation in a safe welfare country. At a time when many countries need to tighten up welfare assets, we have promoted a budget proposal to renew, strengthen and further develop public welfare systems. We can do that because over the years we have pursued a responsible economic policy that focuses on the long-term management of national wealth, while still setting new records in the number of employed people in the country. This is also the direct reason why next year we will have the strongest budgeted growth in patient treatment ever. With this, we will strengthen the treatment capacity, so that the waiting time continues to decrease – we will put the patient in the centre, improve quality and patient safety, as we will deepen it in a big message coming next Friday. We will create good systems for the rapid introduction of new forms of treatment and medical-technical equipment, while ensuring good interaction and use of ICT, as mentioned in the Storing Communication that came last Friday. Furthermore, we are strengthening the budget for the care of the elderly with a total of 188 million. NOK to follow-up the care plan 2015, and we also follow-up with operations to the municipalities through the municipality proposal. The cooperation reform is also further strengthened by 140 million. kr to prevent more and to treat earlier. This means that with this budget, we will create more holistic and coherent services for patients. We want to strengthen health and care services where people live, and we strengthen our good professional environments while increasing capacity with historical growth in patient care in hospitals. That's how we spend the big money on the big problems. We've had a fantastic journey in the last few years in terms of results in the treatment of serious illness. Norway has gone from being a medium in the survival of serious illness to being among the best — only in the last ten years. We have a lot to be proud of. But there's still things to take hold of. That's exactly what this government is constantly doing: thanking us for going safer into the future. We are now moving into a landscape where the population is growing older. This challenges the capacity of society to maintain well-being. This challenge must be addressed primarily with more prevention, prior treatment, new treatment methods and improved interaction. In short, let the cooperation reform take effect. We need to be able to upgrade the services in order to get into a history of disease, while at the same time being able to take more responsibility for our own health. We have to make sure that the warm hands are used so that they can provide the best possible care, but also so that the individual patient can strengthen his or her self-care. In the same landscape, we see that our idea of a fair distribution of health care among the population is being challenged. My response is that health care must be based on good health priorities at the right level by professionals, an appropriate organisation that supports both overall, cooperation and a geographically equivalent distribution of health services, and a clear overall framework governed by politicians. People's expectations will probably always be greater than healthcare can contribute. That's why we're going to have to make health priorities clearer than what we've done now. We know that health professionals are in difficult priorities all the time. Prioritisation is demanding, and perhaps it is something politicians have not been brave enough to do. Saying no to someone is rarely popular. But priority is to put patients on hold in an ethically correct order. The patient who needs the most is treated first. At the same time, we do not want patients to be over-treated or treated unnecessarily. The priority debate will challenge us, and we should take the debate very seriously. I will make Inge's words to mine. When he was the leader of the last priority committee, he said: ‘health sector must compete with other sectors on labour and other resources. [[...]] Even in a rich country such as Norway, it will not be possible to comply with all requests for diagnostics and treatment’. - Smart words for thought. Finally, I just want to mention a very basic ideological debate that shows that we are facing a clear direction choice in 2013: privatisation of healthcare. The long-term impact of the Health Policy of the Right and Advance Party is a privatised healthcare service with increasing differences. We don't want that. So that debate is related to priority, but since I'm not going to get into it in this post, I'm going to get back to that issue in my next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e266	I also want to pursue this with ideology. For the Progress Party, one of the most important ideological elements is actually to start where it's most important, namely with those sitting at the bottom of the table, the ones that wear the most. On that occasion, I would like to ask a little about the care of the drug. We see in these times — it is also addressed in the budget — that good, well-functioning drug institutions lose tendering processes and may have to be cut off. It is drug institutions that have very good results, and the reason for their loss is simply that the results are not taken into account when tenders are made. For example, Phoenix Haga and Nybøle have results showing drugfreeness after three years — 70 p.m. is free of sleep after three years. It must, as the Progress Party sees it, be an important criterion. My question will then be: why is not the achievement of results, namely abstinence, an important criterion for this government to choose who to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e273	It's always nice to be challenged on ideological perspectives from the Progress Party. I think the Progress Party likes that, and I also think that workers' party representatives like it very much. When it comes to ideology in the health debate, you have to start with how to spend the biggest money in the future. We in the Workers' Party, as a responsible party, cannot pretend that the resources are exhaustive. Therefore, some points of view need to be taken on how to make the most of the common resources available in society. That also means that, unlike the Progress Party, we choose not to bet on tax credits for those who have the most of them. That's the main priority in our budgets. Next year, we're adding up to spending money in a way that makes well-being stronger. We have a historic rise in the number of patient treatments in our budget for next year. We can only do that because we are able to give ideological priority, namely that we want to give priority to building well-being on a public foundation and not giving tax credits to those who have the most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e280	There was not much answer to the question, but I will not interfere with it. On 17 June 2011, the Storting decided to ask the government to issue a personal assistant with the rights attached to the user-led personal assistant and to return quickly to Stortinget with a bill. The representative of the Committee, Mr Hagebakken, the predecessor of Breens, said what ‘rapid’ meant that he meant as soon as possible, and in any case during the spring of 2012. Now it's almost another year. When can we expect to have a case about the rights attaching of BPA, as Stortinget has asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e289	I consider Mr Hagebakken to be a very wise man. If he had decided this all by himself, I am sure he had managed to get back to Stortinget within the time limit he himself mentioned. Then the debate has turned out to have many facets. We had a big debate with the KS and also internal priorities on how to set up the BPA scheme. It's about where the right will take place in relation to the number of hours, and it's about how the municipalities will manage to meet this. It is also about how to meet what was the Storting decision initially, that this should be a proceeds neutral scheme. There I have to say that we have had many rounds, including: with KS, to find out where the entry point of a province neutral scheme is and where it is left to become an additional expenditure for the municipalities. We have great respect for the fact that the municipalities do not want new tasks that will lead to new costs that are not covered. Having said that, I am quite sure that we will now land that matter in the near future. Then we'll see how close it will be to the future. I tipped the matter over in a few months to consult.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e300	The time was well past – there is talk of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e303	I know the representative of Breen as a representative with a burning heart for drug treatment. It is not so strange since the movement of workers and the movement of laymen meets here – and should be met more often in these cases. The representative of Breen, in his statement, says that the budget we are dealing with now is a strengthening and further development of healthcare. My question to Breen is: How should the government strengthen the treatment of drug users and people with mental problems when they are not to be given priority in line with people with somatic problems – since the government no longer wants that priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e312	That's how we now have a decade behind us where you've prioritised rushes and psychiatry in front of the somatic world. It is clear that when a particular health field is distributed over a period of ten years, a possible bias is gradually created. What we are now saying in our budget is that we have a historical commitment to patient treatment without prioritizing patient groups in front of others. The reason for that is multiple. One is that there is reason to ask questions about the quality we have built up through the trash. Is the amount of money actually spent in relation to the number of places - increase in the field? Is the quality good enough, or should we now take a break and look at the results of what we've done before we go into another bet? Many suggest that things could be better quality in drug treatment. At the same time, government has ambitions in fields other than drugs and psychiatry. We want, for example: the implementation of the cancer strategy without getting criticism from the opposition that we have ambitious targets of 20 days between the onset of disease and the initiation of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e321	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e324	The starting point of the party is, as always, to make a good Norwegian health service even better: to take care of those who fall outside, those who sit at the bottom of the table, those who are in line, and not least to work for a responsible whole. Preventing and rehabilitating is so important that it doesn't just keep up with words, but it requires action, bet and resources. We continue to look at developments related to the migration challenges of hospitals, the economy, waiting lists, patient safety and, above all, the device situation. Therefore, our starting point for the budget is the desire for a holistic health care, and it is important that the different institutions and health levels cooperate well to ensure that patients get the help they need, where they need it, when they need it. For this reason, we are paying overall both in ordinary specialist health services, as well as in rehabilitation, psychiatry and, not least, in the care of drug users. It is unsustainable that about 250,000 people are still in health queues. This is linked to the economic framework, but of course also to how we organise the Norwegian health system. This is the background to our desire to implement comprehensive measures to strengthen and improve the health sector in our alternative budget for 2013. The Progress Party proposes to increase the budget of the specialist health service by up to 3 billion. Dr, who is going to go to patient treatment and necessary investments, and we are putting up a significant effort to reduce health cows through the purchase of services from private and non-profit providers – both in Norway and abroad, with a total of 750 million. kr. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to equalise private and public service providers, leading to a better utilisation of the overall capacity of the healthcare system. This will result in shorter waiting lists and not least shorter waiting times. In order to ensure increased patient treatment and effectiveness, the Progress Party also proposes to increase the ISF share to 50 pst., which we know works when it comes to bringing down the queues. During the Bondevik II government, the queues went down, thanks to the fact that the Progress Party got a majority to increase the ISF share. We also want to put regional health companies down and replace them with stronger state governance in combination with more power for the individual hospital. The framework for this was debated last week. I'm not going to go into it any further right now, but stress that this will lead to great efficiency gains, despite the fact that the Council of State doesn't believe it. In particular, the geographical differences associated with the degree and quality of treatment received by individuals will be eliminated or reduced. It is a fact that there are regional inequalities in hospital services. This is in the long run to break down the basic principle that everyone has the right to an equivalent treatment wherever they live. The 2009 Collaborative Report refers to some large regional differences in health provision, including: in the field of mental health protection for children and young people. The differences arise both in the right allocation and not least during the waiting period. We also need to organise the healthcare system so that medical personnel are more widely used for patient-related work. For this reason, the aim of all of us should be to release annual work in the Health Executive Board in order to use these resources to increase the number of commercial employees who can carry out a good part of the administrative work that needs to be carried out by health professionals today. It is also essential that funds and a responsible timeframe be put at the disposal of health business conversions. Therefore, the Advance Party strengthens the budget of the hospitals. We are probably all in this room concerned about the maintenance of the Norwegian health care system, as well as the state of our ICT systems. There is a need for a comprehensive ICT system for the health sector as a whole where individual elements talk together on one platform. It is assumed that a common ICT system also communicates with primary health services. Last week was Announced. St. 9 for 2012–2013, One resident – one journal, submitted. It's a late start, but a good start. Messages are one thing, but this requires national management, this requires management and resources, yes, it simply requires action, not just dialogue. Therefore, the Advance Party proposes to cancel the hospital debt by 1 billion. kr. This will provide room for new investment in, inter alia: ICT, medical and technical equipment and construction. We feel that Stortinget is virtually no longer a member of the Norwegian health service. We believe that the current governance model for the health sector is not appropriate, and we want an alternative to be developed. It is against this background that we want to put down regional health businesses and give more freedom and responsibility to local health businesses, which I would like to remind you is far less of today than it was before. This is to be done within the framework of a national health policy that we are dealing with in this Chamber. We want the Storting to adopt a national health plan that defines the overall structure and to present clear health priorities. I am glad that the Council of State has shown an open mind for this, that at least he did not reject the idea in one debate last week. An area that, in the view of the Party, receives too little attention is the prehospital services. Recently, there has been a lot of focus on response times and the differences that can be recorded. In addition, we also know that we have some so-called black holes, i.e. areas where there isn't, or are extremely bad, coverage of ambulance personnel. We record that many local hospitals are shut down, while there is a great reorganization and regionalisation of the community's medical services. Both contribute to the fact that too many people go further to the hospital or treatment than it was before. In addition, there will be a greater need for patient transportation. When prehospital services are not scaled up accordingly, the result for the population is that the supply is getting worse. This is why the Progress Party has proposed changes to this effect in order to ensure that the population, not least in the districts, better health services and better ambulance services are provided. We are concerned about this in general, but have also addressed some specific issues in addition to the general one. We believe that the offer of psychiatry ambulance has proved to be targeted and accurate, and that it offers a very good offer to patients. Many reports in the media, not least from those who have been in these difficult situations, confirm that this has been very successful. We therefore believe that it is high time that the psychiatry-bulance system was also introduced into the other health care establishments. We react to the fact that the inhabitants of Telemark, Sogn and Fjordane, Hålogaland and Health Fonna – to mention someone – are not guaranteed the same air ambulance preparedness as the majority of the population. On that occasion, I would also like to point out that in the first half of 2011 there have been ten conflicts of contemporaneousness only at the Stavanger base, which has had to be resolved differently, as well as a mission that was rejected because the crews had exceeded legal duty. This further underlines the need for additional air ambulances in the Health West. Maybe it should also be stationed in the Haugesund area. In the end – to the extent that time permits – I want to get involved in pharmaceutical policy, and there is a lot that could have been said. However, I would like to ask the Health Council to spend a little more time with the nutrition councils, which are actually more concerned with caring for the innovative pharmaceutical environments that we have in Norway – perhaps especially in the fields of genetic and biotechnology – than what I perceive as health councils. Since 2005, there has been a significant increase in the development of more individualised treatment, and more will be done. It was, for example: not discussed in the notification of medicinal products the last time it was submitted for treatment. The Party is committed to ensuring that the industrial policy objectives of the pharmaceutical sector must be seen in the context of the regulation of medicinal products policy. A new wholesale message is needed in this area. The time does not allow me to go deeper into this, but I will be allowed to address both the proposals where the Progress Party is part of the proposal, and the ones we are alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e361	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. As a result, all minority proposals in the configuration are busy. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e366	The Progress Party in Oslo has been the driver of a competitive outsourcing of the care of the elderly, which we do not see in any other Norwegian cities. They have carried out care for the elderly in the capital with fewer sick places, increased expenditure and higher thresholds for receiving home services than the average on a national basis. In Sweden, such a health care policy has gone much further. Here's over 20 pst. of the elderly run by a handful of international groups with offices in tax havens such as Jersey and Cayman Islands. However, the Swedish Minister of Finance has now expressed concern, for the large care groups bring dividends in the million class out of the country each year, while advanced tax planning ensures that 0 kroner are paid in taxes to the Swedish community. Why does the Progress Party want such a policy to be implemented in the health and care sector here too?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e373	I thank you for the opportunity to talk about a good and dignified care for the elderly. I myself have a long and good experience in the municipal sector, where we have used ourselves to launch competition, with the good result that municipal care for the elderly actually got much better when we had the competitive element. As rapporteur at the time, the pleasant result was that we became even more effective, we became even better in the municipal sector in our service, even when it came to the provision of care for the elderly. I'm not going to go to the depths of the Oslo numbers. I could refer here to Trondheim, who has exceptionally poor results after doing the opposite, and just invested in municipal care for the elderly. They currently have one of the highest proportions of people who have to share space – they don't call it double room, to avoid statistics. But I'm concerned that care for the elderly is worth it, and that we give a good and worthy care for the elderly to the individual, and then I'm less concerned about who pays the salary to the nurse who works in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e380	In 2009, 387 deaths were recorded in Norway as a direct result of long-term and high alcohol consumption. During the whole year, medical examinations at Bergen showed that 70 pst. of those in power who came in were the effects of alcohol. The Public Health Institute estimates that between 50,000 and 150 000 children live with parents who have a risky alcohol consumption. Furthermore, research shows that for each person who is alcohol addict, there are on average three people who are struggling with reactions and symptoms that are directly related to the behaviour and problems of the addict. Now it's almost Christmas and a happy celebration for very many. SIRUS has made an estimate that, unfortunately, 200,000 children are now afraid of Christmas, precisely because of parental alcohol abuse. The Party of Progress has for several years rejected restrictive measures when it comes to alcohol and has opposed the need for liberalisation and easier access to alcohol. So my question is, how many people in the Progress Party must end up in the wrong and lose their freedom as a result of alcohol before they are willing to take restrictive measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e387	The starting point of the Party's alcohol policy, as in most cases, is that it is a legal drug. That is why we need to be able to invest in information campaigns, and we need to invest in good rehabilitation. There, the Progress Party has put forward many proposals in this Chamber that the Central Party has not found too well to support. I'm a little surprised that a representative who comes from a party that has a government council that calls for Norwegian agriculture to be allowed to sell more alcohol products from its own farms, at the same time can stand here with a certain weight and say that availability is what needs to be limited. This is where the Center Party must actually clean up its own policy. I don't know if it's the Minister of Agriculture we're going to listen to, who wants more farmers to sell beer from their farms, or whether we're going to listen to Kjersti Toppe, who wants us to limit the consumption of alcohol so much that even the one deciliter consumed in this room – no, not in this room, but in this house of the 800 people who go here every day, is an important moment to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e392	It was tempting to follow up on the last theme, but I will address something else. The representative Olsen said in his reply to the first reply that he was not so concerned about who is paying the salaries to the employees in the care of the elderly. But is he concerned about what they get? For what we saw in the fall was a strike in the competitive, commercialised parts of the elderly in the capital and other cities, where the employees strike because it is systematically seen that there are in particular the pension conditions of our health and care workers who are dumped by outsourcing and commercialisation. Does the representative Per Arne Olsen think it is a good thing that employees in commercial nursing homes get worse pension conditions than in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e401	Also in this field I actually have quite good experience myself. We put up a lot of competition in my municipality. One of the first things we did was actually to sit down. with the trade union movement and agree on the terms of the tender we should have. The trade union movement still disagreed that we were going to tender, but we actually agreed that the pension conditions were part of what we were going to demand when we put out a tender. I was also one of the first rapporteurs to back the ILO Convention in its time to have a level playing field when we were exposed to competition, so I actually have a very good conscience in this area. I also have great faith in the private solutions, because future care for the elderly is also about competent people, and in order to get the best and the best nurses also in the private sector, private people must be able to compete in the long term on pay terms and pension conditions. In order to get the best, they actually have to be competitive on this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e406	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e409	We face three main challenges in health and care policy. The first one is social inequality. We have a world-class health system, we have a health system that can show better results in the years of red-green governance. We succeed better in the fight against a number of serious diseases, we treat more, and waiting times go down. Nevertheless, we see that there is a systematic distinction between health and health in our population. We see it between different parts of the country, we see it between different parts of this city, and we see it between different occupational groups. There is a great difference in life expectancy between different groups in our society, different social teams, classes, occupational groups. There are large differences in the health status of children, depending on their background. In addition to this systematic distinction in health status, we also see a distinction in health access, access to healthcare, which shows us that we have a major challenge in spreading knowledge of rights, access to our good health services to the whole population. It is a paradox that the groups of the population who are basically the freshest are also those who use healthcare the most. Another main challenge is that, despite the fact that more people are getting help and waiting times are falling, not everyone is getting the help they need when they need it, and it must be a common objective for health and care policies that we are constantly striving towards the goal of getting people the help they need when they need it. So waiting times generally go down, but it does not help the individual who feels that he is in line for too long. The third main challenge is to ensure sufficient competent staff and to ensure that employees have sufficient time for patients and for the elderly. We are going to face a major recruitment challenge in the health and care professions in the years that are coming, and that means that both the conditions and the organisation we give to the people who enter this sector will be absolutely crucial to the quality of the services provided to both patients and older people. The budget we are dealing with is a budget that responds to many of these challenges by facilitating an activity growth that will enable us to help more people, that we can develop an even better health care system, and that we can achieve further progress. At the same time, the government and the red-green majority work with a number of measures to address precisely these challenges, not least in terms of strengthening patient rights and patient safety, which are an important part of the work also against social inequality. The health policy keywords are prevention, professionalism and freedom. We are committed to raising prevention even higher on the health policy agenda in the coming years. It's about early efforts, it's about strengthening school health services and health stations around our country, giving a boost to those who are able to see signs of problems early, and getting started with an early effort that allows us to save both the individual and society for large human and economic costs related to repair. I think a major challenge will be to get healthcare to work well with other services aimed at children and young people. It's about school, and it's about child protection. We see that in different parts of these services we are now better off with early efforts. The child protection promise has meant that much more young children come into contact with child protection. We also need to achieve the same in the field of school health and child and youth psychiatry. The second key is professionalism. We must continue the debate that has recently begun in Norway in connection with both too many market mechanisms and too much unnecessary bureaucracy in our health care. We must strive for good professional judgement to be decisive in how resources are distributed as much as possible. I am therefore pleased with the signals that have come from the Minister of Health to be open both to look at health care structures and, not least, to invite the parties to cooperate to reduce the scope of unnecessary bureaucracy. It is linked to the third key of SV's health policy, which is freedom. It is essential that the health and care workers be given more freedom. We have inspiring examples of the fact that when employees across disciplines meet, freedom and influence are given to change their working day, they get very good results for patients and users. At Nordfjord District Psychiatric Center, they decided to remove the waiting lists. They were able to do so through the efforts of the employees. At Namso's hospital, which I visited earlier this year, they sat down across professional groups and discussed how they could manage to provide more treatment at several of the hospital departments. They have achieved spectacular good results in reducing waiting time. In the care of the elderly, the government is well on track for the further development of the places of care of the day. We also need in this area to have a very clear focus on the main challenge for the future: enough competent staff. It's about a full-time lift. We know that today our society is wasting a lot of resources through the large amount of part-time work in the care services. And it's about seeing that for many municipalities, increased basic staff will be a much better response than competitive outsourcing on how to provide better care for the elderly. I even visited Kristiansund earlier this year. At one of the city's hospitals, Bergan, they have had great experience in increasing basic manning. This nursing home was originally exposed to competition, without improving its quality. The employees ran too much, had too little time for the patients, the relatives were worried. Finally, although it was on the ROBEK list, the municipality chose to go away from the competition and instead invest money in increased basic staff at the hospital. It has also been shown in retrospect that the increased costs were returned to the municipality in the form of lower sick leave and less temporary work. This should be the main response to the challenges of improving quality, rather than the debate on competitive outsourcing, which comes up again and again. Despite the fact that Per Arne Olsen's representative has obviously had exemplary pension arrangements, we unfortunately see in many places that competitive outsourcing has just resulted in poorer conditions for employees. In the case of alcohol, we have carried out an important escalation in the last few years, but there is also a great deal to be done. It is important that we have a continued strong political focus on that field. It is on the total capacity, but it is also on the device, the discussion of the balance between short-term and long-term locations, for example. I am concerned that we should defend the place of the ideal institutions in the care of Russo. This should be done, for example: involve a discussion of the use of tenders versus the use of existing contracts. But I notice that the opposition here shoots at the government parties from completely different teams. You push the ideals in front of you, but you really want a wide opening for commercial players. It is, in fact, a completely different message from the Christian People's Party and the Left, than from the Right and the Advance Party. Because if you are not to have any measures to limit the element of free competition in these systems, it will not be the ideals to win, but the commercial players. It is therefore necessary, in order to avoid commercialisation, to introduce measures to protect both public and non-profit service production. If one is to have free competition in different welfare services, they will lose ideally because of the commercial gains. I also note that the much-mentioned civilisation in the field of health policy does not imply any agreement on how to treat the ideal actors, nor does it imply any agreement on what is the most important issue in the debate between the red-green parties and the opposition, namely, the right-wing proposal for so-called free treatment choices. Massive privatisation of healthcare needs to be resumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e450	In the budget position, SV has a note saying that they ‘are committed to strengthening the municipal economy and the free framework of municipalities, so that the work on drugs can be further strengthened’. This is contrary to what all those who were at the hearing and who are working in the drug field could tell us. They could tell us that there are signs of cuts in care from municipalities all over the country after the earmarked funds were removed. Therefore, I wonder whether the Light Hill was not present at the hearing, whether the Light Hill did not believe in these feedbacks, or whether the Light Hill simply has problems admitting that SV's solutions do not work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e456	Earmarked funds have been needed to strengthen healthcare. Then it's like at some point in the framework, with a clear expectation that the municipalities with the financial basis laid through the construction will continue to make a strong offer. We have that expectation for the municipalities. There's still to be seen what the result will be in the future. Of course, we're going to follow that closely. However, the expectation we have described in our remark is, of course, linked to the fact that this has been done with real money that has been given to the municipalities and that we expect the municipalities to also use to maintain a good offer in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e461	In the class struggle today, the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Helga Pedersen, celebrates the regional health companies. She calls it "a thundering success". The position of the SV is the same as that of the Right, that these regional undertakings should be laid down and that they act as a glacial in relation to management and not least in relation to what the representative Lysbaken also addressed in his statement, namely the importance of less bureaucracy and freedom for employees. Helga Pedersen, on the other hand, says in the class struggle today that the ‘employees need calmness to do the job we have set them to: treat patients’, and she believes that shutting down regional enterprises will mean a dramatic reorganisation of health businesses, which will affect employees. Does the representative Lysbakken agree with the representative Helga Pedersen's description of SV's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e468	It is well known that SV in its time voted against today’s corporate organisation. The other batches, which have subsequently criticised it, were essentially for it. We have a long history of scepticism against that way of organizing hospitals. There's a discussion that's been going on honestly, even between the government parties, for years. I record that there are clear and good signals from the government regarding transparency to discuss this. At the same time, there is strong agreement between the SV and the Workers' Party that the solutions to the right are in favour of poor solutions, which will lead to more commercialisation. I also feel that the Right’s proposal on the winding-up of regional health companies is a rather different model than the SV advocates, which will lead to both centralisation – which I am not pleased with – and too weak political management of hospitals. That is why the criticism of the Right Model, something SV and the Workers' Party stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e475	I can inform the representative Lysbakken that the Christian People's Party voted against the hospital reform, together with SV. Then you're up-to-date. One in four women is raped or threatened with rape. These are cruel numbers that we have to deal with. If I get to use the Lightbaking word myself: yes, we're going to prevent. We're going to give these women the best professionalism, but first of all, we're going to give women freedom back. We know that one of the most important measures, along with the reception of rape, is to acquire knowledge when a rape has occurred. Therefore, a web portal is one of the most important measures, if we look at Sweden, which has better experience in this. Now the Sanity Association itself starts with a web portal, because they can't wait for the public. Is there such a health policy the Lightbaking will have, where private ideals go before, while the public is after?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e486	Right should be right: it is absolutely right that it was the Christian People's Party and the SV who voted against the reform in their time, and that should of course be mentioned. As far as the fight against violence against women is concerned, I believe that the red-green government has, over several years, been intensifying itself, which lacks parallel in Norwegian policy, if you look back in time. We have had a number of action plans that have been marked by measures, which have led to this issue being much higher on the agenda. This has been done in the fields of justice policy, equality policy and health and care policy. Of course, that doesn't mean we're in the goal. I do not know in detail the Sanity Women's website proposals, but it is a proposal I would like to look at. Now, if they start it up, it'll be very exciting to see the effect of it. In some cases it is, and that is why I am in favour of the role of NPISHs in health, care and well-being, that they set in motion good ideas from which the public can learn and possibly take up gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e495	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e498	We're privileged as a cage in Norway. Unlike many other countries, we have a well-developed health care system. We have a national policy that makes it a public responsibility to promote health, prevent disease and ensure the necessary health and care services for the whole population. The Ministry of Health and Health has proposed a budget of approximately 146 billion. kr. There's a growth of 7.5 billion. Compared to the 2012 balanced budget. One adds to a growth in patient treatment in 2013. It is a good health budget for Norway, with a social profile and a budget that has become even better through Stortinget's treatment. Health is important for all human beings, but the aspirations for good health vary widely — including in Norway. Social relationships relate to growth, education, work, what we and the possibilities of training and physical activity are decisive for health. I think that the biggest challenge we have today in health policy is social differences in health. In my contribution, I will focus on what is most important in health policy, simply public health work. Public health is a societal task and a political responsibility. Health is not created in medical offices or hospitals, but in all the arenas where people live and work. National policies affect the state of health and the distribution of health among the population. The interaction reforms and the people's helselova provided an important basis. We now see that the municipalities are eager and impatient to build up the preventive work in the municipalities. I think it's time to raise the knowledge-based public health work in Norway. The health and care sector in Norway is large. A large proportion of young people are currently entering the health and care sector, and predictions suggest that if we are to maintain today’s service standards, an even greater proportion of young people will have to choose a profession within the health and care sector. It'll be expensive for society, and it won't be viable. It will have consequences for the entire value creation, for the level of taxes and charges, and it will be able to push forward private solutions, which in practice mean that it is the most resource-intensive who can talk things out, that will win. In order to avoid this, while we still have economic freedom of action, we need to gather around boldly to strengthen public health and to prevent disease development. This will mean that we have to use both whip and carrot. Both holding campaigns and the deliberate organisation of healthy lifestyles are important, for example: in kindergarten and school. I would like to point out some main areas where we should be able to improve quickly. An area is physical activity. 8 pst. 8-year-olds are currently obese or obese. Our 15-year-olds are as little physically active as the oldest. Our next major public health effort must be among children and young people. There must be an hour of physical activity in the school every day. Societal economic analysis of building a coherent walking and cycling route in Norwegian cities suggests that the benefits of this measure are at least four to five times higher than the costs of development and maintenance. Another area is diet. This area must also be part of the next major public health effort. We have to start work on a step-by-step introduction of a school meal in the ground floor. Free fruit and greenery have been an important start, but we should go further. We don't have to look at this as a school case, but as a health matter; a policy to reduce social health differences. Today diet is a class question. It is in kindergarten and school the preventive work gets the most effect, and we have to start there. We also need to take this step forward in order to implement the dietary policy. This is where we need to focus on children and young people. For children and young people, shower, juice and candy contribute to almost half the total sugar intake. This budget introduces an additional levy on sugar, chocolate, snacks and non-alcoholic beverages with added sugar and artificial sweeteners. There are health grounds for this, but there is a paradox and no obvious reason why we should still have reduced VAT on cheese and other artificially produced confectionery. I am pleased that the government in the budget paper announces that one will continue to work on evaluating economic instruments to promote a healthy diet. Another important public health area is about drugs. This government has warned that it should have a clear and restrictive policy in relation to alcohol and smoke. I'm not going to get closer to it right now. We have heard that the opposition is now bringing together a common health policy. I think it's a fragile political collection. A relation applies to privatisation: I can't believe that the Christian People's Party is actually on the line that the Right and the Advance Party lead here. The second major difference is in public health policy. I notice that the Christian People's Party joins us in remarks about using active political instruments to prevent. Unlike the Right Party and the Progress Party, they are for a policy to reduce social health inequalities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e528	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e531	The centre is constantly giving the impression that they are very concerned that the lack of availability, together with the high price of alcohol, is crucial to the success of the alcohol policy. At the same time, the Center Party says that they want every farmer who produces his own wine and beer to be free to sell this – that is, increased availability. In addition, the Central Party increases the charges on non-alcoholic products, making it more expensive to remove alcohol. What is the Central Party's alcohol policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e540	If you really want to do something about the alcohol policy in Norway, I think it's quite a bit cumbersome to come up with this because the farmers are going to sell alcohol from their own outlets, because in the big context it means very little. What I see is that the Progress Party would not be in favour of, are the restrictive measures for the big sale. A proposal to reduce the fees instead. There is, of course, a clear political difference between applying restrictive measures in the alcohol field and not applying them. The centre party is quite clear that we want to apply restrictive measures and use the charging policy so that we can reduce consumption. That's a lot of good reasons. I notice that alcohol is still an area that is difficult to talk about too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e547	In spring 2009, the size of the population dealt with a growing message of continuous maternity, maternity and maternity care, and important decisions were taken to help ensure better quality and patient safety in maternity care. Now, almost four years later, there is no improvement in midwife preparedness and follow-up services, there is a large shortage of midwives in the municipalities, midwife care at the large food clinics has not increased despite an increase in the number of births, and maternity care has revealed a significant gap from the time mother and children are released from the maternity ward until the health centre is ready to follow up the family. The Health Authority says very clearly that a breach in the service provision so soon after birth threatens patient safety. Is the representative Toppe satisfied with the government's follow-up to Storting's decisions in these areas almost four years ago in order to ensure better and safer conditions especially for women in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e555	First, I want to say that I share the concerns expressed by the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli both here and in several other contexts, and I think it is very good that she is a driver for better maternity, maternity and maternity care in Norway. There are a few things that are pointed out here when it comes to accompanying services, staffing in clinics and the provision of maternity services that we're not aiming at. There are still great improvements to be made here. I'm glad that one also mentions the supply of the large food clinics. We're most concerned with the small ones, but there are also major challenges to the big ones. Now the government has announced that one should bring a case in relation to the financing of midwives in the municipalities. I think there's a grip that can make it easier to recruit midwives in municipal health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e566	In the speech to the representative Toppe, the main theme was public health. The left believes that a good health care service is also good public health and good public health work. That is why we have put in our draft budget considerable extra resources to strengthen the health care service. In many places, the health care service is too poor. It has, among other things, insufficient capacity. The question to the representative Toppe is whether she agrees that the health care service is a good prevention service – and why won’t the Centre Party and the government give this priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e573	I fully agree that a good health care provider service is important. The same is a good schooling service, which also includes things other than just health care. But this is important both in the health center and in the school. It is also an important preventive arena that we can use even more in the future when we are going to implement the Cooperation Reform. So I disagree that we don't want to prioritize this. The most important thing to strengthen health care services is to have a good community economy. If Left Permissions 10 or 15 million. kr extra, does not give many extra settings throughout the country. So a good community economy is important to get this done, and for the municipalities to give priority to it, and I'm absolutely sure the municipalities will do it if they have a municipal economy that allows it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e580	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e583	First of all, I would like to say that we generally have a good health service in Norway. Many patients get the help they need today. Many older people are satisfied with the visit to home care today. Employees reach a long distance and will make demanding decisions through this day. Many offices are currently making management decisions that have consequences for many sick, elderly and employees. Each of these meetings is essential for the patient’s safety. But first of all, these meetings are important to give a sense of being seen, met and taken seriously. I'm glad Minister Gahr Støre is going to bet on public health work. This is in line with the Bondevik II Government’s big message Recipe for a healthier Norway. The representative Kjersti Toppe's contributions to public health policy were like music in my ears. We know a lot about where the challenges are the most: the areas of physical activity and diet. We have that knowledge. But the main political challenge is perhaps to implement a comprehensive public health policy that addresses all the important areas, such as transport, school, culture, finance, housing policy and municipal policy, to name a few. The health sector shall only support public health work. As the Christian People's Party sees it, each of us has a responsibility for our own health. But as social actors, we have the responsibility of politicians to facilitate the good solutions, such as multiple routes, as one hour of physical activity every day in school, as tours in the community, and as fees that make us choose healthy food when we pick them in the grocery store. As I said, there will be no promise unless the important sectors agree on a public health initiative. In the context of the Interaction Reform, municipalities were given a clearer responsibility for public health work. The Christian People's Party was then critical, as it is now, of the fact that it was not put out of its own funds to the municipalities for public health work. I hope that soon this room will come to the realization that it is a long time for the ideas of the Cooperation Reform on more prevention, more treatment in the municipalities, and only for the specialist health service in certain cases, as former health minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, the operational ideas of the municipal administration and the community health service will be able to work after every single day. Let there be no doubt that the ideas of the Interaction Reform are good ideas, but if the municipalities are to be able to think and work from an overall public health perspective, there is a need for their own resources to do so. The Christian People's Party is concerned with preventive physical activity, and I refer to our alternative budget where we are betting on both school health and more physical activity through teams and associations. The ideas for the cooperation reform are good. But so far, the different experiences in the different municipalities have one common denominator, and there has been a focus on the ready-to-print patients, to be able to take back their citizens at the right time. These are many municipalities that have succeeded. But it is not that the bed that is now used for patients who are ready to print was previously empty. Local politicians and health professionals in the care sector point to a shift in the service order. In particular, this has exceeded the offer for short-term stays and rehabilitation sites. I want to challenge the Minister of Health to listen carefully to this precisely when he is out visiting the municipalities, so that not one offer weakens another to other patient groups. Introducing the Interaction Reform, there was a clear pre-requisite that the reform should be fully financed. This was an important principle. When there is now some uncertainty in the municipalities about the real costs of the cooperation reform, the Christian People's Party believes that it should not be a problem for the government to make a recalculation of the cooperation reform. I don't quite understand what the challenge for the government is by doing something like that. The cooperation reform has so far had its main focus on somatic matters. Instant help is on the stairs, rushes and psychiatry are waiting. Today’s Christian People’s Party calls for piloting of drugs and psychiatry in terms of both organisation and financial calculations. I think we should listen carefully to the local community association, who spoke wisely about this at the hearing this fall. They said that it is not possible to use the same set of thoughts or the same financial incentives for people with drug and mental disorders as for those with somatic disorders. For this reason, the Christian People’s Party – together with the Right – today challenges the government to use the time to finalize how the drug and psychiatry should be integrated into the Cooperation Reform, to gain knowledge of different organisations and different economic incentives through pilot projects. Before I drop out of the drug and psychiatry field completely: I think it's a little strange when the situation is like that of our drug users, with 2,500 waiting for treatment – they've put themselves in line for treatment because they want to get out of their drug abuse – and at the same time we have an interaction reform with full pressure on the somatic environment, that earmarked funds for drug treatment in the municipalities are removed. The removal was notified, but the cooperation reform was not notified at that time. I hope that the 2,500 who are in line today were not in line when it was notified of the removal. There is a reason that drugs for drug treatment were earmarked. As the Christian People's Party sees it, these means should be earmarked until the drugs and psychiatry have found their legitimate place in the Cooperation Reform. We need to prevent more, we need to get drugs and psychiatry into the cooperation reform in a good way, but there will still be a great need for hospitals for the sickest of our elderly. 12 000 sick homes by 2015 were Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's election vow in 2009. It was the election vow, that's what was communicated, easy and easy. There was no focus on grant commitments, on tidy rooms or on rehabilitated rooms, no, the focus was on 12,000 new hospitals. Now we see that under 1000 new hospitals are built. 2015 is just a little over three years away. In order to meet the Prime Minister’s electoral promise, many sick homes must be built every year in the next few years. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes in its alternative budget to build 3,750 new hospitals each year over the next three years, with a state incentive of 50 pst. We also give money to operate these. In health care and society in general, there are some nobility marks. One of them is how we treat people in their last weeks, 24 hours and hours. This week's look-up in our country told us once again that we still have a long way to go in order to give our dying one worthy and good care. When cancer nurse Marie Aakre, a pioneer in this field, says that the offer to the deceased is at risk of getting worse because municipal services do not have the necessary resources and skills, and that dying people are less welcome in hospitals, there are recordings that need to be taken with the greatest seriousness. Christian People's Party believes we need more hospices. We need relief units in the municipalities and hospitals. We need to build up the competence around the dying, whether it's at home in the living room, in the short term, in the nursing home, on relief units or on the hospice that death comes to life – because that's what's happening. The Christian People's Party demonstrates its political will for this both by granting more money in our alternative budget for care at the end of life, and by being with the other opposition parties about various verbal proposals and remarks in today's position. I believe that the proposals of the Christian People's Party have been taken up by other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e643	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e646	The Christian People's Party has a good heart for the non-profit sector. I'm glad. Then we also hear that the Christian People's Party will be the birth helper of a possible Right Party-dominated government. Let me make a few points: the ways of the heart are incalculable, but we know a lot about blue-blue and ideal, at least the Salvation Army and the Church's City Mission in Oslo know a lot about it. They lose their bids to the very private and commercial ones and have to shut down their own business. The question is, how does the Christian People's Party think that Christian People's Party can help ensure that ideal wins and private commercial losses in the competitions for health and care that can come in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e655	I am pleased with the report of the Christian People's Party by the representative of Health. Yes, we have a warm heart. We have a warm heart for the non-profit sector and for a public health service – not a being, but a service. That's what it should be, a service for all of us in Norway. I can cancel that the Christian People's Party is going to be some birth helper for a blue-blue government. But we in the Christian People's Party – if the voters give us confidence – should join in and give Norway a new government that will pursue a health policy that gives them an ideal place. It is under this government – with a red-green policy – that many ideals have lost offer, which has made the non-profit sector more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e664	The representative Heimdal of the Christian People's Party said about the cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party the following in the Class struggle November 29th: ‘But health policy may be the easiest area for us to come together.’ So the Christian People's Party and Hemdal in this article are flagging that they want to support a blue health policy – together with the Progress Party and the Right. The truth is, the Right Party and the Progress Party are eager to commercialise and privatise the care field. It has helped to push out the volunteers and the ideal actors, eventually using Oslo as an example. In addition, the Right Party and the Progress Party are clear that they want to liberalise alcohol policy and that they want to make less use of the tax policy to regulate the diet. My question is whether it is this policy where the representative Hemdal thinks it was so very easy to find together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e678	No, the Christian People's Party will not support a blue-blue health policy. The Christian People's Party is going to be involved in creating a new, good health policy for its citizens, where we, together with, among other things. As we say today, the Progress Party will use ‘economic instruments to promote a healthier diet’, where we, together with others, will use ‘economic instruments to promote a healthier diet’. On the right, the main lines of the alcohol policy will continue to be ‘fixed’. These are two points on which the representative Kjersti Toppe and the representative Hemdal – and the Progress Party and the Right – respectively – agree. So the representative doesn't have to draw a picture that isn't at all real. We need to be involved and promote a good health policy, where we put the individual in the centre, and where the public and non-profit sector has good conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e685	I heard a question about the reasoning the representative had that the earmarked municipal funds have now been put into the framework. She first had a comment about 2 500 drug addicts who were in line, so to speak, believing that this was an argument for not adding the money to the community. But – just for a clarification: It is probably the case that the Christian People's Party in the future sees it that the 2,500 who are now in line are still to be treated in the specialist health service and not in Kommune-Norway – that I have made a misinterpretation based on your reasoning in your article. So just for an explanation, if you can answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e698	If the representative was able to draw those ends, I'd like to clarify it. The 2500 who are in treatment queues — due to the red-green policy — should be treated in the specialist healthcare service. But there are many drug users for whom the municipality has a responsibility, and those funds have now been removed by the red-green government. This has led, among other things, to: The heroin project in Sarpsborg must have funds from the State to be implemented. It was a project that received funds from the earmarked funds. It has helped girls and boys out of heroin abuse. That is something the municipality has done in the past, but today you have to ask for money from the County to complete this two-year pilot project. It's a red-green policy. It is good that we have a reasonable county in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e707	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e710	The left is not represented in the Health and Welfare Committee. I hope it's temporary. We have therefore not had the opportunity to promote the position of the left in the setting we are currently dealing with. As with the previous consideration of the budget of other committees, the Left has chosen not to promote changes in appropriations under individual items according to our priorities in the Chamber today. We are therefore voting in favour of the government's draft budget, as a result of our proposal for an alternative budget under the framework area of 15 when dealing with the financial situation of Storting. It is crucial in a welfare society that we have a good and equivalent health offer for everyone who needs it, when they need it. Information, participation and quality assurance are necessary in order for us as patients to feel secure. The left believes that a strong public health service is the best guarantee for this. For us, it is important that the available health resources are used to create an equivalent offer with priority on a medical basis. However, in addition to public health, there must be room for private actors. I want to use my speaking time to highlight three of the Left's priorities in the Health and Welfare Budget: Health Care, Psychiatric Health Services and Drug Care. The first is about accurate prevention. The second is about early intervention, and care is about giving priority to one of the weakest groups in Norway. In its alternative budget, the Left has been committed to strengthening primary health services in a number of areas, including: through increased capacity and better provision of health sisters and health stations. Health sisters are important to many children and young people. A good health sister easily picks up problems that young people may have and can build up a trust relationship that is difficult to replace by others in the health sector. The health sisters also know the system well and can easily refer a youth to the appropriate professional environment. I would like to refer to Akershus, where, after carrying out a test scheme, the county administration provides funds to strengthen the health care of secondary schools in the county, even if it is a municipal responsibility. This is an example of the fact that the good preventive work of health sisters is really being taken into account. It makes a difference. We want more of this. However, in many places the health care care service has poor capacity. That's too bad. For not only is the health care service a good preventive service, but it is also a socially cheap way to provide health advice and health care to young people. Health nurses and health centre services are well aware of opportunities to conduct outreach activities from the infant stage and thus have a good opportunity to provide advice and assistance at an early stage before serious problems develop. The availability of services for people with both mild and severe mental disorders is too poor. The waiting lists are too long, and it's too random who gets help when. I think we need something new in mental health. The objective must be lowthreshold provision in municipalities, where rapid help can be obtained without referral. Nearly 13 000 people are in line for mental assistance in Norway. At the same time, 1 400 breaches of processing guarantees have been recorded. According to the Psychologists' Association, waiting lists are going to be juicy all over the country. The number of clinical psychologists with operational arrangements has declined in recent years. This is not a good development. Had we had psychologists in the same service as we have doctors today, we would have much more stability for those who experience mental problems. Today's system makes small mental problems become big, serious and life-threatening. We can't have it that way. The left has therefore given priority to low-threshold psychiatric services in municipalities in its alternative budget. Some so-called weaker ones, e.g. in psychiatry and drug care, having difficulty finding suitable housing. Some of them fall between several chairs when, for example: apply for a municipal dwelling or start-up loan to obtain housing in the private market. In such cases, it is important to see the individual human being, not just paragraphs. We must make room for an overall assessment of those who need assistance. Some have combined challenges, and we need to look at the opportunities to exercise discretion, so that they get the assistance they need. I mentioned in the introduction that the Left in Health Policy is committed to giving more priority to those who need it the most. As part of this re-priority, the Left considers that more attention needs to be paid to health care for addicts; prevention, detoxification, treatment and aftercare/rehabilitation. Also close1 drug prevention needs to be strengthened. In this context, the voluntary sector can make invaluable contributions, but this will require state support for voluntary activities. It's embarrassing that addicts are in line for emergency detoxification. Around 2,700 people are in line, and at the same time ideal drug institutions have free capacity. It is also embarrassing that drug addicts do not have room for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment when detoxification is completed. And it's embarrassing that over 2,000 people have died of overdose in the last ten years. For some people, rushing and psychiatry go hand in hand. Violence in close relationships is a major social problem and often affects children. It turns out that psychiatry and/or intoxication are often involved in the practice of violence. The left’s commitment to health care, psychiatric health services and drug care should contribute to the fight against violence in close relationships. In many cases it's about looking and saying from behind. Finally, I would like to point out that the Left vote in favour of minority proposals No. 1-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e744	In these discussions on budgets and items, it is important to stress the importance of our being in the Cooperation Reform. It has a direction. It has an idea of emphasising prevention, of emphasising early efforts, of emphasising public health, of focusing on what creates health in a population, rather than one-sided focus on repair. It's about putting the local level -- close to where people live -- in the center. I would like to remind you that we are one year into this reform. It has to go on. There we need an interaction between the state and the municipality. We need to think completely, as is done in the health and care plan, and we need to think a whole between state and municipality in terms of economics. It's not enough to add some twenty million items to the hospital budget when we think about health. There are also questions about what is actually allocated to the municipalities within the framework of which the municipalities should give priority. The representative Solli made some interesting points about Norway remaining in some areas where we think in very centralised terms — with long-term treatment and institutions — while in areas such as drugs and psychiatry, we have clear international advice to move towards the local level, with rapid intervention and low threshold. I am pleased that there is a lot of consensus in this debate, and there are a lot of ambitions – we should recognise that. Let me comment on some of the things that have come up in the posts until now. From the Right Representative it is said that today's regime for hospitals prevents investment. No, I disagree. It is invested like never before in Norwegian hospitals. What prevents investment is out of control and big deficits -- we have experience of that, we're now putting that behind us. Right, with the support of other parties in the opposition – with a slight change in enthusiasm – will bring regional governance to a halt. They will remove a link with regional and local politicians and remove a link where employees also have representation in hospital planning. The proposal that has been promoted and which we have a lot of reason to debate in months to come will, in my opinion, lead to centralisation and bureaucracy. Everything will swarm around Oslo, this hall and the department a little up the street that I have the honour to manage – far from the west, mid and north, further from the reality that people are up to. I believe that with this kind of reform proposed by the Right, national health policy will become even more a hospital policy, where small and large will enter this room, where the Minister of Health will operate detailed management of small and large, and where all matters will run up towards a department in Oslo. I think that's crazy development. I noticed that in the posts of the representative, Höie, the word public health, which is the premise to prevent people from entering hospitals, hardly mentioned. I'm glad that the Right and many others in this room talk about the importance of focusing on those who are most vulnerable – the areas of drugs, psychiatry, rehabilitation, elderly, chronic illness and the last phase of life. We agree on that, and let me very clearly distance myself from the claim – which came particularly from the representative, Höie – that these are areas that the government does not give priority to. On the contrary, there have been policies, money, willingness to change and not least qualified personnel and emphasis on turning our focus towards early efforts and low thresholds near where people live. This is interaction in practice. It is also a reform to which the Right is skeptical. But the solution we get to hear, at my discretion, has an old mark and a hang of old structures. So that's the question of the free choice of treatment. It's interesting to hear the very clear message that the Right Party and the Advance Party have in their program proposals and also in this room, but it's a little bit unclear what is really meant by the four parties. It is a rather interesting sentence in the setting where it says that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party "considers it appropriate in the long run to strive for a free treatment system". It does not conflict with the intent of implementation in that sentence. It might have been interesting to hear what is meant by ‘in the long term it would be appropriate to strive for a system’. I believe that the answer to the unresolved challenges we are hearing here is more effective in public health – there are several suggestions on this in the vote. It is to play with the private people and make sure that private people get paid by the public to start up with offers. In this budget, public hospitals were cut and money was used to buy privately – without any interference in many cases, without priority. Not least, as the representative of Breen pointed out, the issue of prioritisation is a worrying sign in this context. Finally, I would like to say: I have noticed that the representative, Höie, is constantly coming back to 2005 as a brand year for the Norwegian health care system, among others. he shows that less was waiting for treatment then than now. Isolatedly, it's a straightforward observation, but it's deficient if it's going to give a picture of what our hospitals deliver. For he never – I repeat: never – informs that this year 1.7 million more investigations and treatments will be carried out in hospitals than in 2005. Looking at the relationship between those waiting for treatment and those treated, the proportion is much lower and has fallen significantly since 2008. Let me repeat – since we are referred to in these debates – that everyone who has urgent needs is being treated right away. 70-80 pst. of patients in Norwegian hospitals have such needs. It ends in the other Right Story from 2005, except that Erna Solberg from time to time indicates that the treatment of patients increased sharply during the Right Year of Government. Yes, it increased, but at the same time the government let the economy scour and go. The representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party are not talking so much about it is that it was an increase without the hospital being given the necessary funds at the same time. Hospitals were in a dramatic economic situation. The deficits were almost 2 billion. kr at the beginning of 2005. From 2002 to 2005, a deficit of more than 6 billion was accumulated. kr, in which our government has had to take some time to clean up – with improvements year after year. After a lot of hard work by employees and increased appropriations from the new bulk of population, hospitals came together in a financial balance in 2009. Now you can look forward. Now it's invested like never before. In fact, more is invested than normal consumption of capital should be expected. A great deal of other health concerns can be reported in 2005. The economic space of the municipalities, for example: has a significant impact on almost half of our health efforts in our country. Through significant transfers to the municipalities, we have turned pessimism into optimism. Since 2005, the local economy has been strengthened by over 60 billion. kr. With the cuts Right and Advance Party proposed in the property tax, the municipalities could lose billions of dollars. This has an impact on the ability of municipalities to prioritise, including health. Of course, it affects the ability of municipalities to provide both healthcare and care services. It will mean less care and welfare where people live. For it is in the municipalities – organised by them, funded by them, followed by them – that decisive health efforts take place, not least for public health, for prevention and for rehabilitation. Then the Right Party and the Advance Party would like to add a few million to posts in the isolated health budget, as we see in this setting, but it does not tell us everything about health services in Norway. The municipalities – if they are to build on experience, and they do – know a different picture, and that picture is reinforced by an even more general picture, namely what is involved in the resources available to the community. Much of the extra effort Right-wing desire for health should come from streamlining after the prescription that it should be more of a smaller – specifically in the public domain. That should be noted by the thousands of employees in this sector. So they have to run even faster after even tighter schedules. There won't be better health, care and quality of it. Nor in this debate can we overlook the consequences of the Progress Party and the Right's massive tax cuts in a place between 30 billion. kr and 100 brd. kr. That money has to be taken from somewhere. Cuts will lead towards welfare. The municipalities can think of themselves. In addition, the proposal to remove the wealth tax will make the wealthiest even richer in this country. It will in turn increase their capacity and want to buy their own healthcare. Together with the Right’s proposal to subsidise the start-up of a large private market with public funds – a system that no other country has tried to do – the representative Höie informed us about last week – there really is a pattern of two-way healthcare. It is in the right comments in the setting that they want to play on layers with the private ones. That's coverage for that goal. We want to play with the patients. That is what we do by giving priority to public health and prioritizing that we have personnel in public, have qualified people, who can participate in and treat the complex and complex disorders – not by getting a system where this is fragmented, and the ability to take care of the weakest in this way is weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e776	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e779	If the remark referred to by the Council of State, it may at least be replied to in a ghostly way that it is written in a language theme to be understood by the Council of State. I want to draw attention to regional health companies, where I do not share the views of the Council of State that there is nothing to spare, that there is no bureaucracy. That this is a Glava team against both the clinical staff and the patients, I am absolutely convinced of. We see in numbers from both Samdata and elsewhere that there are considerable regional differences both in waiting time and in the supply of patients. That's why I'm a little worried when the Council of State won't take inward that we can see up to 20 pst. the difference in waiting time in the case of various diseases. Isn't there something that should worry the Council of States about offering a similar offer all over the country? Is the Council willing to look at measures to change these differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e786	I'm worried, but there are also differences between hospitals internally in the regions, so it's not that they are in different regions, which means that there may be different waiting times. So here we have to work on having clear national targets. We need clear guidance in the letters of assignment of regional health companies in order to set targets in the individual medical areas. I want more coordination between regions in areas such as ICT, acquisitions, skills development, research, etc. That is quite clear, and we are also in the process of implementing it. But I don't think the differences that the representative points to here are being overcome by the fact that this is managed from floors in the Ministry of Health – which I have everything I can say about – that would then become a purely hospital department, or by the fact that here in this room we are going to adopt ambitions for different clinics in different hospitals and believe that this will result in equal treatment. No, there is hard work out there in the hospitals of motivated, competent employees who make the prerequisites for doing the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e793	I have to admit that I have somewhat more limited faith in mission documents after having actually sent mission documents for seven years and these differences have, however, only become larger. If you want to try another mission document, I would like to, but I don't think that's where the solution is. We have to go to the heart of the problem, the regional health businesses. I want to ask the Council of State another question about the budget we are now discussing. The recommendation states that ‘the involvement of Norway in the ethical recruitment of health professionals has produced results’. I wonder which reports the Council of State may refer to where these ethical guidelines have produced results. The only thing I've registered from results is that our largest hospital has been reported for human trafficking, and that's not very good ethical treatment for employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e800	Here I think it was used big words. First of all, I would like to say first of all that I think making the RHFs the core of the problems in the Norwegian health care system is a fantastic problem description. The representative therefore believes that by removing them you should not have a mission document in the hospitals. But still this room and the department have to send a mission document. People have to read, people have to take signals. When it comes to trafficking in human beings at our largest hospital, I don't have a prerequisite to answer. It seems to me like a big and eaten question, to say it carefully, and I'll put myself into it better before I answer. I assume that we have ethical recruitment of health professionals in Norway as a guide, and that the great people who work at our hospitals, hospitals and institutions are ethical in their position and ethically recruited. If there can be some trick question here that I am not aware of, I will make a reservation about it, and then I will get involved and possibly answer the representative afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e807	In the setting, there is a note that came from the government parties, and it is allowed to say so, since the government parties themselves have done so. The note, which refers to the use of drugs, states that there is a ‘need for a review of the total capacity’. My question to the Council of State is: How does the government intend to launch this review? Will there be a review that will take place in connection with the drug notification, Report. St. 30, look at me, as we have to treat? Will there be a review that will take place in the ministry, which we can get into the big news? Or there will be a professional review that will have to come after the treatment of the Report. St. 30? This needs a clear answer, because in the posts so far Breen has said that we need a break before we go on in the field of drug treatment, while the representative Lightbaken says that much remains, and that we need to have a political focus on this area of drugs. My question is: When will this professional review be related to Meldning? St. 30?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e817	I think the representative here misinterprets the representatives Breen and Lysbaken a little bit, because they have been very impatient – like me – after having such a review. So here you've mixed the statements a little bit. We're working on it in the department, and I'm fully open to looking at how we can have a dialogue with the Storting in connection with the treatment of drug abuse, for example. – how to apply it. Here I am looking for two things. One is to get a better overview of and more reliable data on quality in drug treatment. It's important, we're concerned about that in all parts of our health sector. In the Quality and Patient Safety Notice, which is presented in two days’ time, this is a major issue. In the field of alcohol, we need more. The second theme is the capacity for long-term treatment – how it should be. We need to take a closer look at it — we have got some concrete input into it — and on how to generally respond correctly to outpatient treatment and long-term treatment. We want to do that pretty quickly, and of course we have a close and good dialogue with the Greatness in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e824	I record from the Minister of Health that the Council of State is preparing for four years in opposition, towards a health policy that he has already begun to address. It surprises me that the Minister of Health at the first opportunity to talk about a health budget chooses to talk about the Right Health Budget and not the Labour Party alternative. But that is true of the Minister of Health when he took over the key from the previous Minister of Health. He said, "Now, Anne-Grete, I'm going to work on health for a year." So the Minister of Health is preparing for the time in opposition. My question is related to patient treatment. For the Minister of Health loves to use the figure 1.7 million. My simple question to the Minister of Health, since his decline in time, is: When did the treatment of patients in Norwegian hospitals increase most — between 2001 and 2005 or between 2005 and 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e831	I have talked quite a lot about the government's health policy in a large budget that has been presented, thoroughly argued with a clear direction. In respect of the opposition, I have also commented on the various posts I have heard here. This is in many ways the opposition's debate, so I do not need to argue once again for an excellent budget, which will last for an entire year. I intend to sit the whole year, the year that comes after, and the year after that again. So the representative Höie can look forward to still four years in opposition. When it comes to the growth of patient treatment, I think, as I have said several times in debates with the representative, that we need to see the number of people treated against those who are waiting. I have recognised today that it was a growth – a rather strong growth, I think it was up to 7 pst. – mid-2001–2005. But the problem with that kind of growth is that it's out of control, that it's not funded, and that it leaves the hospitals with a huge deficit, which in turn gives problems in the long term in the future, and which you saw through a lot of effort you have to bring back to balance and start investing. The kind of growth in patient treatment I think is bad, irresponsible, unsustainable and not recommending.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e838	Those who are addicted to drugs need treatment, health care and rehabilitation. The goal must not only be restlessness, but also a worthwhile life for those who are unable to become restless. I expect the Council of State to agree. Can we expect the Minister of Health to be in favour of other measures proposed by the Left in the Stortinget, which the Labour Party has previously voted against, such as: 24 hours treatment guarantee for drug addicts entering acute detoxification?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e843	I'm very much in favour of good emergency measures for drugs. I've visited some of them, and I'm impressed by the way they're arranged. So I think, as I have said, that we need a thorough discussion about the best quality of drug treatment – both the acute and the long-term. I believe that the report on alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, doping, the role of relatives, etc. provides a good basis for a debate on this. In terms of guarantees, I don't want to go right into it, but I think those who have been responsible for voting down that proposal have had a reason to do so, given that just adopting a guarantee to say that something has been done, one should be withholding. It should be ensured that there is capacity and quality in those who treat those entering the emergency room, so that they are helped in the very vulnerable situation they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e850	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e853	Sometimes – sometimes – I read posts on the wall of my Facebook friends that make me stop and think. It happened here a day. One of my friends tells me that she's sick and is currently hospitalized. She writes: ‘I am one of the thousands who are in the middle of a treatment and at the price of the Norwegian healthcare system. It is when you get sick and need long-term treatment and expensive follow-up that you can see the overwhelmingness of the Norwegian health care system, which we are in. It provides security – indescribable security. I know gratitude!" I thought this is the case: we're going to have a health care system that's there when we need it, no matter what happens to us or where in the country we live, and that never asks for status and rank. That is why we need good hospitals throughout the country, and that is why the cooperation reform is so important, where the aim is prevention and good services near where people live. We have seen over ten years that regional hospital management, in combination with state ownership, has proved to be good. We have had strong activity developments in the period following the introduction of the reform. Norwegian hospitals are treating 1.7 million more patients today than in 2005. We've gone from being average to being among the best in the world on cancer survival and survival after stroke and heart attack. The number of timeouts is reduced, so are the waiting times. Regional organisation of hospitals has also contributed to the rational use of the comprehensive occupational competence and good functional distribution between hospitals in each region. And we're going to be better: on ICT, on innovation, on the general use of welfare technologies, and – not least – on better quality and safety in patient care, in particular by: ensuring adequate, diverse and good occupational skills in the health sector. The special thing about today's health debate is that it shows us more clearly than ever that there is a strong ideological difference between today's government parties and the bourgeois block. The right slogan is new and provocative: ‘free treatment choice’. In order to achieve that objective, the right-wing parties are called upon to ‘equalise’ private hospitals with public hospitals, i.e. freedom of establishment. This means that, for example: private, commercial groups with tax havens may, as long as they are professionally approved, settle where they wish, treat those patients and diagnoses that are profitable, and then send the bill to the State, without prior agreement on cooperation, as is currently the case. Thus, for the first time in health care in recent times, we have a situation in which political parties knowingly and willfully cut the link between resource use and the politically adopted priorities and the distribution between patients and regions. It's a whole new situation. The bourgeois parties prescribe a policy for hospitals that does not hang on to them. On the one hand, there is a call for strict government governance of the specialist healthcare service, which requires the establishment of a national hospital plan with defined minimum standards and hospital content – a plan to be adopted by the Stortinget. On the other hand, full freedom of establishment of private, commercial operators will be allowed, where no agreement will be necessary on where to provide which services — in other words, a health policy that only tells half the story of the so-called national health plan. The right-hand side claims that public hospitals should have a kind of gatekeeper function, thereby enabling the proper patients to be excluded from the health market, and the result will be reduced waiting times and the closing of the queues – through so-called free treatment options. All experience shows that this is not true. The freedom of establishment of hospital services at the Community's expense has led to increased costs and increased pressure on the professional resources in the countries that have tried this, not least in the public hospitals. It is true that cows have fallen in the short term, but this has happened by making it easier for the healthiest to treat, while those with chronic and complex disorders – for example. Diamonds – have remained in longer and longer queues, stabbing in violation of the right side claims. Freedom of establishment will mean that commercial actors will establish offers for ‘wage’ patients, and naturally rather in the most populous areas – here in us probably primarily in the capital area. This leads to social and geographical distinctions in resource use between patients, regions and parts of the country, which we do not want in our country. It is not often that we can have purely ideological debates here in the United Kingdom. Today we can have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e882	Good and safe health services occupy the vast majority of the population. Several media lookups show failures, shortcomings and challenges. These negative findings are important contributions to improving and renewing healthcare. At the same time, I think most people know and have learned that there is a lot of good work in our health care system – also it's important to say. But I believe that I would not have done my job if I had closed my eyes to anything that is not good, and I think many find it provocative when the government parties try to smooth over any bad thing that appears. Especially painful for those who have experienced the defects of the body. Transparency is essential if we want to get better. Even I have always been concerned with those who labor, those who fall outside, and those who need the little extra to create their good life. Policy is about correcting bias and giving everyone the opportunity to succeed. Then we have to admit that errors and defects exist. Seven years of red-green governance has given rise to challenges, especially in the field of drugs, psychiatry and rehabilitation. It helps little that the government's answer is that there has never been any use of more money. Those out there who stand in this every single day, they tell us something else. I am calling for a government that is concerned with results. At the same time as the long-term drug demand came, the government is removing its main anti-drug tool; it is removing 333 million. Earmarked crowns from municipalities. During the Question Time a week ago, I told the Minister of Health about Michelle, who is now being printed on a longer treatment offer, and who is afraid of what the future will bring. Since the Minister of Health no longer wants earmarked funds for the care of drug users, I therefore asked what he would actually do with the protection of the municipalities. The Health Minister replied that Michelle hardly understood what earmarking was for anything. I've been talking to Michelle, and I have an important message to the Minister of Health: Michelle knew perfectly well what earring was and what lack of this could mean for her and others in her situation. The Progress Party will also have security, freedom and action in the care of Russo, and will again mark the 333 million. kr that the government has removed. In addition, the Progress Party adds a number of other items to the budget: fresh means of prevention, lowthreshold provision, treatment, aftercare, labour market measures, organisations and housing. Everything is related to everything. If we are to succeed in the care of the drug, the whole chain must be in place, without any delay. This I think everyone has got – everyone except the government. Also, the psychiatry experiences cutbacks. This creates insecurity for many sick and their relatives. It is serious, especially given the knowledge that mental distress accounts for a large proportion of sick leave, that mental distress often leads to intoxication, and that lack of help escalates disease and leads to major relief measures. Again, it is a chain of actions that must be linked without delay. Again, the Progress Party shows its way and grants new, fresh money earmarked for prevention, lowthreshold provision, treatment, after-sales protection, labour market measures, organisations and housing. The last group that has marked cut in recent years is those who need rehabilitation — for some time in life, for others at regular intervals for the rest of their lives. Rehabilitation provides the opportunity to work and to live a self-held life as much as possible. The progress party therefore earmarks extra money for rehabilitation. Treatment trips to warmer strokes are an important tool for many. This is not about a free holiday, but about hard work with great effect. Even this would be cut by the government, despite the fact that one had not achieved the goal set last year, and despite the fact that evidence of effectiveness after the Progress Party vision is good enough. We all know someone who has had such a trip. Seeing the result with your own eyes holds for me. The progress party therefore strengthens this by 40 million. In addition to the government's original draft budget. The promotion party prioritises as normal health and care high, because we believe it is essential to provide people with security and opportunities. At the same time, it is a reality that there are savings in health benefits, redundancy benefits and disability benefits — money that finance parts of the investment. We give priority to this because we want to fight against the development we have seen in recent years, with a two-part healthcare system: one for those with money and one for those who are in line. The Progress Party's alternative budget provides treatment to many thousands more people in the field of drugs, psychiatry, hospitals, care for the elderly and rehabilitation. Handshake, let's call it. The government has faith that the public can solve everything. The Progress Party believes that the public can solve everything in cooperation with private and volunteers. This is important for capacity, for diversity and for quality Elder care is a repetition and has been debated countless times in this room for many years. What is perhaps most sad is that the debate has been much of the same – over and over again – and there is reason to ask ourselves if we can ever say that in this room we have made a difference. The Progress Party is very concerned about the development of care for the elderly. There are still too many people waiting for the necessary hospitalization, which concerns the elderly and makes them anxious. There is a great need both for the development of and the operation of hospitals and for the establishment of a statutory right of access in the event of medical needs. The government has repeatedly demonstrated the promise of full hospital coverage, but the government’s own figures show that there is a net increase of 1,146 hospitalisation sites from 2005 to 2010. This contrasts with the government's stated objective of 12,000 new hospitals during the period. When things aren't as expected or desired, it's common to change strategy. Since the government continues to preach what doesn't work, it seems that we need to get a government shift to succeed in achieving some goals. The Progress Party will change the funding model. It shall be the medical need that determines whether or not the individual should be given sick leave, and not whether or not the municipality finds the economy to give a place. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we allocate 1.2 billion. kr more, which is earmarked for care for the elderly. It will ensure both more seats and more employees. Unfortunately, feedback from municipalities shows that the tight financial framework does not result in the provision of services that are both expected and required by citizens. The Progress Party wants the money to be more closely followed by the individual user who chooses to receive the service. This will provide greater diversity and a more custom-made care service. Pending this change, we want to ensure that municipalities have an increased framework so that they can fulfil the rights that individual users should have. It is worth noting that questions to the Ministry of Finance about coverage in the care sector show that developments in the number of annual works have kept pace with the number of users and thus have not led to a standard increase. So we're left with a sector that's under even stronger pressure than ever. Local authorities use hospitals to accept ready-to-print patients in order to avoid fines, and this has made it more difficult in some municipalities than ever to have a place to stay in hospital. We're out of our minds in terms of the number of new places, and the number of employees per. So the caregivers haven't increased. But the government is very pleased with its own policy. Finally, some words about the seriously ill and dying who do not receive the necessary care and help in the final phase of life: The Progress Party has worked a lot and for a long time to strengthen this offer, and is of the opinion that the establishment of hospice places could improve the quality of the offer by providing comprehensive care in an environment of tranquility, dignity and time to both patients and relatives. In particular, the need for care of children at such a stage has been raised in recent years, but for the time being only by talking. I perceive that all parties are really concerned about this and that it is sad that winter comes and winter goes without us being able to get closer to a solution. Once again, it seems that a change of government is the only thing that benefits. It is necessary to build up a better and more varied offer of life support at the end of life, and the Progress Party believes that a separate plan for this should be developed. Hospice must be one of the alternatives and the Progress Party will establish its own State grant scheme for its establishment and operation. I want to finish the way I started. We have good health services, and a lot of people just experience positive things around their injury or illness. This I try to say often. But I, and the Advancement Party, are concerned that everyone should get this experience, and the way there is long. But if we were to raise just one thing, I think that the queues are the most precarious, the biggest challenge – they are hospital queues, survey queues, drug treatment queues, sick home queues and psychiatry queues. The health system is simply undersized, and this means that hundreds of thousands of people are in some condition. This is simply not good enough!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e937	The state budget for 2013 was the last chance for the government to meet the expectations they have created in the field of health. But the red-greens have stuck to the same policy, a policy that has given increased health cows, uncertainty about the management and patient safety of hospitals and a lack of escalation of the supply of the most vulnerable groups in drug treatment, mental health protection and rehabilitation. In all these areas, the Right has proposed a concrete policy to improve the quality of hospitals, to better manage the health sector, to improve patient rights, to reduce queues and to improve the provision of rehabilitation – and to be discouraged by the Red-Greens. The right has always fought for patients’ rights in the healthcare system – the treatment period, the right to an individual medical deadline for treatment, and free hospital choice. Now is the time to go further and introduce patients’ right to free treatment for priority patients who have a right to treatment. It is not as the representative Knutsen, the Minister of Health and others from the Workers' Party say, that it is free. Habilitation and rehabilitation are essential for the quality of life of many people. Training offers give them the opportunity to master their everyday life and cope with their own strength. For society, it is a good investment that more people can participate and contribute to both working and social life. The Norwegian healthcare system is good at saving lives, but patients do not get enough help to live on. There is a failure in the training provision both in municipalities and in health enterprises and not least in the interaction between them. Many people experience an impressive health service in an acute phase of heart attack and stroke and in the event of a traffic accident, but when the blue lights are switched off and everyday, too many people feel that the help fails and often fails. There are many examples of this: only 60 pst. from victims are offered treatment in stroke units, which have demonstrated good results in terms of reduced mortality, severe disability and hospitalisation needs. Only one in five heart patients get rehabilitation, even though we know that this results in significantly faster recovery. And the Health Authority has warned that the offer of disabled children is failing all over the country, and that many children are thus losing the opportunity to develop their potential. Free treatment options will be most important for the weakest patient groups — the chronically ill, drug addicts and the mentally ill. There is no free choice in rehabilitation today. Chroniclers must respond to the offer offered by their health businesses. Thus, patients are cut off from choosing rehabilitation institutions that specialize in just their suffering, such as MS patients in Health Nord, who are not allowed to use MS Center in Hakadal in Akershus. Drug addicts who are motivated for treatment often have strong views about which treatment they believe and with which they can succeed. With a free choice of treatment, they could be treated immediately, and the public had paid for the treatment. I am convinced that Phoenix Haga could continue well, even without an agreement with Health South-East – because the need is unquestionable! There are over 2,500 addicts in line waiting for treatment. The right considers the most important is a well-functioning public health system. Of course, we don't want to privatize the hospitals, as the red-greens claim over and over again, but unlike the red-greens, we want to strengthen patients' rights and use the free capacity of the private to solve the community's problems. As usual, government parties talk a lot about their good intentions of betting on rehabilitation, but a government that has had majority power for over seven years is past the stage where you can impress with talk. In fact, we expect the government to deliver results. The reality is that government parties have not only broken their promises of a commitment to rehabilitation, they also run a policy that weakens the training offer: offers are being dropped across the country and patients are hit hard. They lose important offers that can enable them to master everyday life and work. While it is a political responsibility to ensure that health businesses do not make decisions contrary to health policy, we note that government parties place more emphasis on protecting regional health businesses than on caring for patients’ needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e960	Never in history have we had more opportunities and health services than today. Suffering that one and two generations ago was mystical and fateful, today encounters professionalism and treatment. The keywords are knowledge, distribution and prioritisation. Never in history have so many people worked with health and care in Norway. Never has the budget area we're dealing with today been bigger, and never have we increased more than now. Health and care are also strong in policy priorities for other social sectors. Knowledge developments are fast. Historically, it's more exponential than linear, and there's no sign of it stopping now. It means even faster progress and more hope, but also new dilemmas. In 1990, research would identify man’s genetic material. Then the question about the world had large enough computers to support the work. With rapid progress in knowledge, work was done in 2003. In our near past, 14 years were used to map the mutagenicity of the HIV virus. When sars came later, this was possible in 31 days. Knowledge is increasing, the number of employees is increasing, and budgets are increasing. At the same time, the need for priority is increasing. The absence of priority in health is the most obvious, most dangerous and unfair priority of all. We can be plagued by the difficulty. It was a little bit easier to prioritize last year. It'll be even harder next year. It is in any case cowardly to run away from responsibility. Why is it getting harder? Well, because Maxwell explained electromagnetism towards the end of the 1800s, so that Schrödinger could formulate quantum mechanical principles and Dirac postulate the positron, and after further progress in physics, in our time we get imagery of disease with PET scans and PET-CT – great progress, new opportunities, but also more demanding priorities. What can we expect in the future? What are major trends in knowledge development? One trend is that different technologies are merging, among others. from molecular biology, ICT and nanotechnology. These are all areas which individually create demanding priorities. Cognition surgery and robotic surgery are already standard treatment in Norway. First robotic surgery was carried out in 2001, when a woman in Strasbourg was peeped into surgery by surgeons in New York on a broadband line that is now out of date. Unlimited knowledge development in a frontier-free electronic world will increase the challenges of legislation, fair distribution and prioritisation. The content of justice will also be challenged. The U.S. Medicines Control, the FDA, approved a new heart drug a few years ago, but only for African American patients because it was different in different populations. More knowledge requires more interaction and cooperation between professional environments. With yesterday's organization, we get bottlenecks and waiting time. Knowledge of the design of processes comes to health care — fortunately. Much of this is really intuitive, just unfamiliar. Nelson Mandela said in his Nobel lecture that the hardest thing is not to change the world, but to change itself. In Nordfjord, psychiatry professionals have changed themselves and organized most of the waiting lists. At Oslo University Hospital, the scientific community in breast cancer has received support for an innovation project for investigation and treatment based on the patient’s position. Perhaps the result could be a ‘drop in model’ for patients, says the project manager – nothing less. This is as important to our patients as describing electromagnetism. We have a strong health budget here today, with almost 2 billion. Dr more to the hospitals, new breast reconstruction initiatives, dental check-ups for the elderly and the centre for particle therapy, follow-up to the Interaction Reform and a new hospital in Kirkenes, to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e980	One of the major challenges we face in future care for the elderly is the increasing number of dentures. By 2035 it is estimated that more than 120 000 have been affected and that even younger people are getting the disease. That is why I am pleased that this government is taking this challenge seriously, and is granting even more money in the budget in 2012. It is now allocated 100 million. I hope that the municipalities will start even more offers so that even more people can get a better daily life. The aim is to introduce a statutory daily offer to people with dementia when it is developed enough. We're not there yet. In 2012, 150 million were earmarked. So we're going to have NOK 100 million. Add kr. The grant may be used for operating and establishment costs, while the annual works are taken from the free revenues, which have also increased under the red-green government. Day care for demente increases the dignity of those who are affected, but also for relatives and close surroundings, such offers are an opportunity to live a life next door and not to wear out. For lonely, home-dwelling denments, a good effect in quality of life can be seen. It gives increased well-being, better nutrition and increased self-esteem. Such daily provision shall be meaningful for the sick person and shall relieve the dependants. Where one has good daily services, one may delay or prevent accommodation in an institution for a short or longer time, and that gives dignity. The new Health and Care Services Act presents dignity as part of the health requirement. Health and care should ensure that everyone is provided with a decent service, and the prescribed provision clearly states that we should have a worthy care for the elderly. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, this is the job ahead. Such a regulation guarantees the right to prioritize the provision of care services and gives enhanced rights through the review and supervisory process — all the time with the aim of improving the provision of services. In order to achieve the best possible care, it is important that we have the right skills. It is important to think interdisciplinaryly and to use several professional groups. It provides the best possible care and care when they complement each other in an overall offer. With all the complex disease images we have, good competence is necessary. That is why the red-green government has spent a lot of money on empowerment and has put a lot of effort into hiring more people in the care services. An increased level of operation in municipalities makes this possible and figures from the SSB show an annual growth of 7700 from 2008 to 2011. It is gratifying that about 84 pst. of the new annual works, health and social education personnel. The municipalities do the job. Over 57 pst. municipalities now have dementia teams or dementia coordinators. 246 municipalities have established indigenous schools, an offer that is important and useful. Learning to deal with the disease to close family, or learning what is common development, makes everyday life better. Local government employees also show great enthusiasm for learning more. More than 12,500 employees in about 85 pst. by the municipalities of the country have completed or started dementia training through Demensorgens ABC and Eldreorgens ABC. Some municipalities also have their own arrangements for raising their skills. All of this gives a boost to care and gives them better quality with dementia and the relatives. We want all people to have opportunities for a good and active old age, and get the help they need, when they need it. The goal is to provide older people with a decent life, choice, respect and privacy. With the budget presented, the red-green government continues the extensive effort we have in the care of the elderly, a commitment that is also made to building several days' care places. That we are now proposing 87.5 million. SEK to 1,750 happy days place in 2013 is necessary. Some of the existing things can be rebuilt and offer good offers. Some places new buildings are needed. Everything is possible with that system, and will totally improve the offer. There's a lot of good going on in the care, but there's still a lot of things to deal with. Even more warm hands and wise heads are needed, even more care places, better opportunities to live at home, more use of welfare technologies and more research on what works best.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1001	Norwegian municipalities account for almost half of Norway's health services. They are important actors who every day contribute to the prevention, treatment and not least rehabilitation of many patients, and they care for many, many thousands of our elderly. We all want to get older, and we want to be old with dignity. Municipalities make a great deal of effort by providing help to the old, night and day of the year. Still, we see that this isn't always enough, that life can be experienced as unsafe, and that it doesn't help. Most people will live active lives in their own homes instead of moving to a passive home in the hospital. Therefore, we need to turn the attitudes of older people into a weak and sick group and rather look at the resources of the older generation. We do not automatically become "like" only because we are getting older. We are equally different and have different needs and desires. Someone has a healthy and mild old age; others become seriously ill. For those who are at the beginning of a disease development, we need to provide help for self-help and efforts at rehabilitation and training, so that they can continue to be independent and active people. For those who are too ill to benefit from training, we need to ensure that they have a worthwhile whole-day care provision – for many people this will be a sick home place; for others, a nursing home will be the best. Differential care provision tailored to individual needs and needs is key here. The concern of the individual will be the most important when we discuss the care services in the future. We must not see ourselves blind in hospitals as the only salvation. Here we have to dare to challenge old myths, and we have to be creative to find new solutions and new answers. In Denmark, many municipalities have provided care services so that they put a great deal of resources into early disease development, making older people more self-help and able to achieve their own goals. This is a good care that gives the older self-respect and experience of mastering again. This is innovation and innovation, and is good both for the elderly themselves, for the relatives, and for the municipality and society as a whole. We're still going to build out hospitals. We need more sick homes, and the government is halfway to the goal of providing 12,000 sick homes by the end of 2012. But a sick home place must be top steps on a long ‘care staircase’. Municipalities must also be able to offer much on the way up the stairs. Even if the focus needs to be focused more on training, self-emestering and rehabilitation, we need to ensure that the sickest, those who are approaching the end of life, have a decent and good service supply. That's what the government does. These things are not the opposite of each other. It's about seeing the individual, the individual's needs, and arranging the services after that. Norwegian municipalities have a long tradition of providing good services to people, and studies show that people are happy with the services they get. This government has made a great effort to restore balance in its municipalities' economies. This balance is crucial because municipalities have been able to employ nurses, carers, etc., who do a formidable job every day. We have received 22,000 new annual works from 2005 to 2011. 17,000 people completed basic, continuing or other training. In order to strengthen efforts towards people with dementia, more than 13 000 people have been trained. In addition, a new eartag additive system is in place to create the daily supply especially for people with dementia – which is an increasing group of older people. This is about the individual. This is about people that are different, that we are different in other parts of life. So I'd like to pay tribute to all the thousands of relatives and volunteers who put an invaluable effort to care for. Calculations have shown that volunteers carry out huge 100,000 annual works. It is a good contribution, and there is good cooperation between competent municipalities and competent individuals, both added and volunteered, who ensure that our elderly people can see old age more clearly in a meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1029	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1032	First, I want to thank the Council of State for engaging in the health debate, not least as regards the care of the elderly. She says a lot of sense about the Fredericia model. I only hope that she will also get a greater impact in her own party and in her own government for this, which the Progress Party has taken up for a long time. But I want to ask the Council a little bit about alcohol policy. In the hall today we feel that a representative has a mantra, and that is limiting access. At the same time, we have an agricultural minister who travels around saying that farmers should be allowed to take care of Norwegian tradition and sell home brewed beer from their own farms, which I think is a good measure. We also see in Europe that alcohol consumption is actually falling, and the only thing that goes up is alcohol-free beer. This government is proposing to increase the tax on non-alcoholic beer. My question to the Council of State will then be: What is the reason for the high tax increases in the non-alcoholic beer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1039	One can, of course, discuss whether we are talking about large tax incentives in general on the product that is now receiving a tax increase. The background to the taxes on beverages is excessive consumption of sugar. It is not related to alcohol-free beer in particular, but it is attached to drinks such as shower and many others, and of course also to alcohol-free beer. So there's also sugar in it. Health policy must limit the use of both sugar and salt. It is part of a broad public health policy that this government is promoting and is going to increase its efforts in the future. Then what has happened when it concerns non-alcoholic beer, is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1046	I guess I don't see that exactly as an answer to what I asked for. But I'm still going to try to move on to another topic, pre-hospital services, which also the Progress Party is very concerned about. We see that many local hospitals are being closed down, or, after the government's view at least, they have changed their content. Not least in the state council's own home state, where we have hospitals both in Eid and in the council's home municipality, hospitals get a different content than they had before. At the same time, municipalities all over the country are regionalising their bodyguards to improve quality and perhaps even more efficiency. It means that people get a longer way to the hospital when they need it. The Progress Party believes that there is a need to strengthen the ambulance service, not least the air ambulance. My question to the Council of State will then be if she sees the same need. If she does, why does she not want to be part of proposals that strengthen, for example, Ambulance service in Sogn and Fjordane?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1057	Now you may be moving into areas that are not directly under the local and regional minister's authority, but on a general basis, I think it is important that we see the different parts of the health service in a context – from the municipal health service, which I think is very important, which accounts for almost half of the health services, and to the different parts of what healthcare providers are responsible for, among other things. the ambulance service. I find it difficult to go into and comment on individual relationships in my own country or in another state council's area, but of course, health is about everyone, regardless of where they live, having access to health services within acceptable distances. I think the representative knows that I have a lot to do, both in my own country and otherwise, so I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1064	On the website of the Centre Party, the present Minister for Transport, Marit Arnstad, said on 10 September: ‘Health and safety is a matter of safety and trust. Today's regional health companies lack democratic legitimacy. They should therefore be wound up. The ownership and operation of hospitals must be better anchored in Stortinget and decentralised." Does the Council agree with Marit Arnstad's opinion on the Central Party's website?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1074	Marit Arnstad speaks out on our homepages as the leader of a hospital selection that the party has seen down. They have submitted a report which is part of the party's work on a new programme and until the national meeting. There is no secret that the Center Party, and therefore also the leader of the Center Party, has been strongly critical of today's organisation of health services. We've been from day one. I think it should be changed, and what the selection has presented is a proposal for such a change. It will be dealt with at the national meeting, which will be held in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1079	I understand it when you said that the Senterpartiet is still critical and has a different view of this than the government partner Arbeiderpartiet. But to follow up on what the Council of State said in its statement – where I saw that I can sign everything – there are very wise words about the development and importance of the development of the municipal care service, and the emphasis on the importance of rehabilitation. In the area of rehabilitation, we receive very clear calls that there is a need for a rehabilitation plan covering the municipality, but also the specialist part, and not least a clarification of where the responsibility should be – a development of the need. The experience of the Danish government, which is very positive, also shows that there is a need for more skills related to rehabilitation. Why, then, is the Central Party voting today against a proposal for a phasing-out plan for rehabilitation/habilitation that had just responded to the needs outlined by the Council of State in its statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1086	We in the Center Party are concerned that we should focus more strongly on rehabilitation so that both young and old people in particular, as I think might have been a little neglected in that field, should have the possibility to come back to a normal life after a femoral fracture or a stroke, or whatever it might be. What we see now is that several municipalities have taken up a new way of working alongside the cooperation reform, which we have introduced from the government's side, and also associated with experience from, among others. Denmark, which has taught and taught many municipalities, is enthusiastic about it. The government is continuously working on the phase-in of the cooperation reform, which is a policy reform. The question of any escalation within rehabilitation will be dealt with by the government in cooperation with the bodies with which we cooperate to develop – not least – KS, and to see if there is a greater need. I have no reason to say that there is a need there today, but in that case we will come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1092	The Council of State said that the Norwegian municipalities are responsible for nearly 50 pst. by the Norwegian healthcare system and that they are important actors. The Council of State took the view that the individual's needs should be taken into account and that one must also dry up against myths. That's wise words. About the sickest of our elderly, the Council of State said that one must have the care of a worthy day of good luck. The municipalities get 5 billion. kr in increased funds until next year. In the budget hearing, the Municipal Council of the European Communities said that a nursing home with 50 patients would not be able to expect more staff in 2013 with this draft budget. My question is, was it the way the municipal minister thought that the increased funds would be used in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1099	It's surprising if KS says it, because it's the basis for calculating the 5 billion. kr, is precisely that there are more elderly people, and more people are to be appointed to care for them. They're a big part -- together with kindergarten kids and schoolchildren, it's the big part of the five billion. kr. It's the growth of the population and the change in demography. I'm not going to do well for what KS has said and not said, but it's clear that a large part of the funds, the 5 billion. kr, is just going to set up people to take care of our kids and our elderly. That's the big part, and that's what's inside of TBU's calculations, and I think Norwegian municipalities are going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1104	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1107	Norway is named the world’s best country to live in year after year, and we have good public welfare services that are widespread among the whole population. Nine out of ten believe it is the public's task and responsibility to secure people's safe and well-being services. By strengthening good public health services, we also ensure an equivalent and good offer across the country. Next year, when we strengthen the budget by 2 pst., we are also committed to strengthening the health budget in order to provide even more treatment in the various hospitals – a growth that is historically high, and which will help to make it new and good for those who need it in terms of both somatics, mental health protection, drugs and rehabilitation. Today, we see an increasing number of specialist healthcare services being treated, and we hear that regional health companies report a decrease in waiting time, a decrease in deadlines, a better quality of treatment provision, and not least good economic governance and good results. Economic control helps one to focus work even more on the quality of health care, and even more people can get a treatment offer. Not least, good financial control contributes to the use of resources for large tasks such as new construction and investment in new medical-technical equipment. It is a paradox that there are more patients who do not arrive at an agreed time for treatment than those who are actually waiting for treatment in Norwegian hospitals. There's a challenge. From 1 January this year, the Interaction Reform was introduced. Everyone welcomed this reform, and we all agreed that we had to shift resource use more from repair to prevention. We see an increasing number of lifestyle-related diseases resulting from inactivity, smoking, alcohol, sugar, etc. This can be prevented to a much greater extent, but it requires both political courage and determination. Of course, the availability of alcohol and the price of alcohol have consequences in terms of consumption. This government does not want low prices of tobacco and alcohol; we do not want more availability of alcohol to be in the grocery store. We want a restrictive and strict alcohol policy that contributes to the decline in alcohol consumption and thus contributes to the strengthening of public health. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and And they want this to be sold in the grocery store. They want to spend money on repair rather than turn resources on prevention. Public health work is the societal effort to influence factors that directly or indirectly promote the health and well-being of the population. We need to continue to develop a society that facilitates positive health choices and healthy lifestyles. Social health inequalities are a public health problem, but it's also a justice problem that affects us all, wherever we live in the country. I am pleased that the Council of State has already said something about her wanting to promote a new public health report during 2013, a public health report that needs to affect more departments and more areas – how they can jointly find important choices to promote public health work even better. This applies from kindergartens, school, SFOs, transport, voluntary sector and not least working life. The interaction reform, the right treatment at the right place at the right time, is very important. It has only been one year, and many good measures are reported in the municipality of Norway in these areas — early efforts rather than late efforts, prevention rather than repairing, moving services closer where people live, and that we have good local competence in these areas. New public health law, which has been in place since 1 January, is about having preventive work and a greater responsibility among municipalities – it is those who know the challenges in each area. Next year, we will strengthen the budget for the Cooperation Reform by a further 140 million. NOK, and in 2013 it totals SEK 900 million. kr. This is in addition to a good municipal economy which enables municipalities to spend money on large and important welfare tasks and to facilitate good public health work in all areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1135	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1138	There is probably no finer and clearer expression of the success of Norwegian society than the fact that we are getting older and that the elderly live longer. We see that very many older people are healthy and perhaps experience the best time in their lives, where you have a good time, where you have security, where you have freedom and where you can be with children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. On the part of the community, we need to make it possible to stay at home as far as possible, live an active life, and participate in much of the wonderful cultural offer we have in the country. Others may experience the worst time in their lives – they experience that they need help. Then the community has to set up and give what you need. All over the country, we now see that there are multiple investments, that more people are employed, and that we are still discussing how to provide better services to older people who need help. I can mention an example from Ytterøy, my hometown, where you use culture – song – against the denments. They say that where you had to be three in the past to add one of the demented patients in the evening, you can do with one person by singing. It says something about what opportunities exist when it comes to getting more dignity for the help-needing, a more interesting working day for the person working there, and how to free resources with simple grips and by using the best available in humans. We can do this because the community is setting up. We can also lose this with massive tax cuts, and with right-hand solutions. We also see in the hospital field that it is invested for billions. You can do this because you've got control of the economy. Another example from my home municipality: the hospital in Levanger may now have the country's finest and best intensive care unit, precisely because it has been given control of the economy and therefore has developed a buffer that allows you to invest in new technology, in a better offer. This can be done because you have been controlled, because the community is strong in Norway and because we have a good health care for everyone. With the right-hand solutions, we see that there will be more privatisation, there will be greater differences, there will be more running for those who work there and there will be more uncertainty. It is this election on 9 September that is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1151	Unlike the latter, I would say that the Right's health policy actually leads to less differences than the current government's policy does. We believe that more people should be given the opportunity to get treatment where there is capacity, rather than that those who have poor advice have to stand in line, while those who have employers who want to pay for them or who have good advice themselves can buy in the queue. To put it simply, we want the freedom of choice Jonas Gahr Støre, who has given himself up by the Minister of Health, to meet others who may not have the same level as we have in this Chamber. Health cows are increasing, and they are currently at about the same level as before the hospital reform was adopted. After having had a sharp fall, we are now back at about the same level. The waiting time for treatment is lower, but still long, and in reality considerably longer than that stated by the government. The national audit has indicated that the waiting time for treatment is actually close to 100 days. Long health cows and waiting times simply show me that there is a need to have other ideas — new ideas — and that it is important to have better solutions to achieve the goal of providing health care to all when they need it. Our new solution is that patients should be better able to choose between authorised treatment sites — public or private — when they are authorised and prioritised for treatment. The last thing is important, because it's not like that there's a lock door open. You must be approved and given priority before you receive a treatment right in our scheme. The difference is that patients release long queues for treatment, but can take advantage of greater diversity, without depending on the diversity that needs to be funded by their own wallet, as is currently done with red-green policies. If it is that time you are on the waiting list is an expression of the priority of the diseases – which is sometimes heard as from red-green politicians, that those who are waiting for the longest are those who are least priority – it is actually that there are young people with mental problems that should be the lowest priority. I don't think that's right. Then I want to say that I fully understand that a government council that has worked a lot on foreign policy does not have a complete overview of the municipal funding system, or how the decisions are taken on Stortinget. But it is such that the framework for the local economy was adopted in the context of the financial situation. It was not the case that there was less money for a local economy with a right-wing arrangement than with the government's arrangements. The krone for krone is the property tax compensated for by cutting in other areas of government expenditure – not in the municipal economy. The sum is, in fact, that with the right approach, there is a little more to health in the municipalities because we have committed to quality measures such as continuing training to ensure that the cooperation reform is implemented. I hope that the Council of State can therefore confirm that he now understands that the property tax does not go at the expense of the municipal health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1168	It is a very strong budget that the government has provided, in order to be able to both repair more and repair better. The reason why I take the floor in this debate is that the more important it is that we have a clear focus on how we can prevent people in this country from becoming patients. In this way I see the line instead from the representative Toppe to the Progress Party was very good. The saddest was the answer from the Party of Advancement. We feel that the Progress Party manifests with great clarity requirements for rights, requirements for appropriations and requirements for examination and action plans in the field of health. It makes it paradoxical to hear the answer of the representative Toppe on the issue of prevention, and in particular on drug prevention. We see a party that almost collapses on the issue of prevention. That's sad, because that's one of the most important questions we're facing. We're going to repair more, and we're going to repair faster and better, yes – but it's a significant potential to prevent us from getting more patients. We know that for a third of patients who have cancer, cancer diagnosis can be related to some kind of way of life. We see drug use dominating in the area of violence against women and children — the situation of the medical officer, and hospitalisations were mentioned. It is paradoxical to hear the party of progress so eager to repair in the case of drug users, without having to think about what it is that could help prevent. It is in these areas that we have succeeded so far in history. With regard to the issue of drugs — both illicit drugs and legal forms of drug — we have had a policy that has just helped to keep consumption down, whether it be wine monopolies, charging mechanisms, advertising bans, etc. These are important instruments for further prevention into the future. We must strengthen it, and not foment such a debate with the farmers' right to make home brewed beer. It's about so much more. Especially the Progress Party has been the exponent to tear down what has helped prevent us from getting a lot of patients. We do not least have a policy that has contributed to a lot of well-being and happiness for both small and large people in this country. I look forward very much to the government providing the announced public health report with these perspectives, and I am also pleased that we have a health minister who is still talking about prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1179	Today, we have nearly 3,000 drug users in line for treatment. And it's like politics is up to the exam to meet the individual. In this field, I think the impression character is close to the government. It is the case that drug users differ from very many other healthcare patients, in the sense that they must be offered as soon as they are motivated – not when they realize that they need it, but once they are motivated. The result today is that the government is actually laying down long-term places for drug users to replace a few short-term places, without it being shown why — on what scientific basis — this is happening. Destruction of the drug field means that in my area two drug institutions – Nybøle in Spydeberg and Phoenix House Haga in Eidsberg – are closed down and replaced by a few less short-term places, despite having almost 3,000 queues. The decline within the Ru area is taking place at the worst possible time. The government launched a big deal earlier this year that offered – at least a great expectation – that the rural area would actually be given priority, while the result is that the municipalities will lose NOK 330 million. Right put them back. The Health Council is visited by rapporteurs from my own party municipalities Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg and a number of other municipalities and institutions such as Nybøle in Spydeberg and Phoenix House Haga in Eidsberg, with notice that this money is needed. In addition, this also occurs at the worst possible time, as the interaction reform does not have economic instruments in place in the fields of drugs and psychiatry. As if this is not enough, it also leads to a reduction in the supply of drugs and psychiatry within the regional health enterprise, Health South-East, while the Right is relieving extra funds, so that we can further reduce waiting time. There will be storms in the drug field with this kind of degradation in the municipality and in the specialist health service with no incentives in this area in the Cooperation Reform. Right put this back. It is therefore necessary to give private, non-profit and public institutions the opportunity to meet precisely what is important: that drug users have a door open when the motivation is there. And with nearly 3,000 queues, this should not only call for economics, but also a warm heart within the area to say that the field needs to be upgraded further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1199	An important tool to combat discrimination is user-driven personal assistance. When we become dependent on public services to cope with everyday life, we are in a vulnerable situation. You have to organize your life according to municipal tour plans. You don't know who shows up to help take a shower, you can't accept a spontaneous invitation to join a movie, you can't be with the kids on soccer because you don't have the necessary assistance. For the Right, the User-guided Personal Assistance Scheme, BPA, is an important release project. I LO Current No. 19, 2012 we can read about Aage Gäsdahl who in a very common week had 26 different people from some municipal service within his home. He got his life back when he received personal assistance. When you can control the help you receive, you have greater freedom in everyday life and can control your own life. It's an important value for the Right. In our right time we extended the BPA scheme to include children and people with developmental disabilities. But we saw too many variations in the use of BPA in municipalities, and many municipalities did not offer BPA at all. Therefore, in the spring of 2005, the then State Council, Erna Solberg, proposed the introduction of the right to BPA for people with a high level of assistance needs. Then came the election in 2005. Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad after that, on behalf of the government of Stoltenberg, said that they mainly supported the Solberg proposal and promised to follow it up with the first. Then the BPA was in the government's drawer until Minister of Health and Health Ström-Erichsen put his foot down for rights fixing in his proposal for a new law on municipal health services. But the majority of the Stortinges say yes to the BPA and made a request decision on 17 June 2011. It says, among other things. that Stortinget asks the government to come quickly «back to Stortinget with a proposal for the rights-attachment of user-led personal assistance for users with high needs». I wonder what is "fast" in this government's terminology. And not least, I wonder what kind of executive this government has, when several of their representatives in the big debate that day in June 2011 confirmed that quickly meant at least during the spring of 2012. The right will continue to be a driver for the implementation of the rights attaching of BPA to those with high assistance needs. Only then are we an important step forward towards the goal of equal opportunities for all. The right is impatient, along with people with disabilities, and I find it disappointing that the government hasn't done anything about this matter yet – as long as it's been.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1220	Patients are largely satisfied with the health care system when describing their meeting with those who work there. The problems are more common in the organisation of the health system itself. This shows that the government’s system thinking is also gaining ground here — at the expense of healthcare users. Under today’s government, the number of patients waiting for treatment has increased by 70,000, and there were over 60,000 deadlines in 2011. The fact that Health Minister Gahr Støre said in a debate in News of the Day 18 that queues were natural tells a lot about attitudes in the red-green government – about why the systems fail. The right has always fought for patients’ rights in the healthcare system – from the introduction by the Syse administration of the first treatment period in 1990 to the introduction by the Bondevik II administration of the right to an individual medical deadline and the right to treatment for drug users. Right does not want patient cows to be accepted as natural. Last time we were in government, we reduced health cows by 70,000 patients and average waiting time by 151 days. We now experience long waiting lists as a result of a red-green health policy. We also see that after seven years of this policy, never – and I never say – the thickness of the wallet meant more in the Norwegian health system. Today’s health cows are so long that private enterprises are forced to take out health insurance for their employees. They actually don't dare not. It could be too expensive. In order to mitigate this negative two-way division of the health service, the Right proposes to provide 20,000 more patients with services in private hospitals. We are increasing the appropriations allocated to public hospitals in order to introduce free treatment options. Right will take care of the value of everyone’s right to the same health care, regardless of the economy and the wallet. We think it's an important part of the Nordic model. Once patients with the Right Model are given the opportunity to choose between public and private health services, the queues will fall again. Once again we use better solutions with Right solutions that serve the patient over the system – only then will we again see the results of well-being that work. We saw that last right in government, and Norwegian patients will experience that when the Right comes back to government the next autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1241	We know that if we are to achieve the goals that we have set for a better health and care sector, we need competence. Not least, we need more skilled health professionals. The need will remain high in the future. The reasons for that are many and complex. That people live longer is a positive reason in themselves. In upper secondary schools, occupations in general have had a lower status in the choice of education programmes than preparatory programmes. That's too bad. In particular, there has been a serious lack of vocational training. Recently, we've seen that the iron percentage has risen to Vg3 in particular. This seems to be linked to the fact that too many jumps of the professions after two years and choose build-up. It is very important that we organise an education system that leads people to letter and study skills. We're not doing it well enough today. I'm going to point out three important aspects of the Center Party think we need to change: Firstly, young people want opportunities. Many people realize that they will have some practice, but also a little theory that makes them not stopped from taking higher education later. However, since we require students to take out their right to three years of secondary education continuously within five years, it is too many who choose to take up two years of professional education first before they drop out of the trade union track and go to preparatory Vg3. This is perhaps the toughest of all the years of study. The result is that more than half of those starting on the ground are ironing out. This means that they have neither a diploma nor a study qualification, and in addition they have exercised the right to youth. From the autumn onwards, the country of origin has chosen to remove the requirement of three years of continuous withdrawal of youth rights. This has meant that 51 students are now in school or are learning again instead of on the Nav or in the job to wait for adult law, which starts when you are 25 years old. Secondly, some states offer Vg3 supplementation after the students have completed a letter. This means that the students can safely take a letter to make sure that they can take it up later if they want it. Those who then choose to build will probably be more mature and have better conditions to implement and survive than now. Thirdly, we should also facilitate an exchange model in which students receive combined theory and practice in the four-year training cycle in a better way than today. I look forward to the announcement of the Minister of Knowledge to be made in the spring. It will take special care of high school, and I hope it can also help us get more health professionals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1262	In my first post, I was only talking about position policy. Now I'm just going to talk about the Right Policy. I want to start with the little visitor representative Solberg had in the hall when it came to the municipal budget. It's like if you choose to spend billions of dollars on tax bills, there'll be less money left in the community. When it comes to municipal policy, we all know the little honorable story of Solberg's representative, and what it was like in Municipality-Norway when she crashed. So it's like I announced a comment about the new line that the Right has now added up to in its policy. One thing is free treatment choices, which are commented on by several, another thing is the political shift Right now adds up in economic policy. This is how the Progress Party now appears to be responsible on the opposition side when it comes to economic policy. They have, after all, invested money for free treatment. They realize it costs money. The right shall only cut public hospitals in order to finance this. The second concerns last year's debate on the ICT initiative to the Right, when representatives Bent Höie and Jan Tore Sanner almost ridiculed my questions about how they had intended to finance their ICT initiative. We all remember when the four opposition leaders went out and launched 10 billion. kr to ICT over five years. But then they are no safer on themselves than they have sent a question to the Ministry of Finance about the year's budget, and received an answer from the department on how this is to be budgeted. It is clear from the answer given to the Right that 2 billion is to be budgeted. kr in loans over the line. Budgets are to be made with increased depreciation costs and an interest-rate compensation is to be budgeted. In total, it costs $2,220 million. kr for next year. The right-hand side has added 20 million. kr. What is it? Is this a warning that the ICT bet has been cancelled? Yes, I think both the voters and we deserve to know about it. Or is this a shift in economic thinking, where one no longer thinks of responsible financial budgeting – that is, trying to avoid the actual cost? Now this year I demand a proper answer on how to think about this. Have you just ignored the answer to question number? 137 to the Ministry of Finance, or has it now been thought that this would pass under the radar? This is a health policy debate for the budget where these options are to be discussed, and then I believe that this is a very central question we can demand answers from the Right. In addition, in repeated debates, the Right has also criticised the pace of change by, for example, Oslo University Hospital, OUS. How will it be with regard to the rate of conversion in public hospitals when it comes to covering all the bets on raisins with cuts in the framework, covering other bets with cuts in the framework and in addition financing a private offer out by means of free treatment choices? What does that mean for the OUS and other public hospitals conversion rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1277	One of the main points of the Gjørv Commission is the strengthening of local preparedness, whether in terms of police, fire and rescue, ambulance or local hospital. All experience is that it is the local preparedness that provides rapid and good help. This is a matter that is being dealt with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs now, where I am a member, and this is serious. There are very many in Buskerud who have experience of the terrible tragedy on Ut Island. As regards the West Viken, the Ministry of Health and Welfare's budget states that: ‘Ringe-rich hospitals and Kongsberg hospitals shall be further developed as local hospitals within the functions adopted in the Western Viking Strategy Plan.’ It is a strategy plan that was developed before the experience we have now gained in connection with the terrible tragedy. For the Ring Kingdom, which passed the test on July 22, this is a good development today. It's a good development with a full-fledged local hospital, with a local management under Per Bleiklia's alert look, and it's a hospital that is now being visited by a number of local hospitals to look at the experience of how they developed their trauma team in the critical situation. One looks at how one can implement the national trauma system, as it does, among other things. was described in a 2007 report from Olav Røise and Tina Gaarder at Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål. It is important that the Ringerich Hospital can further develop itself within the context of local management in the sense of both human and budgetary responsibilities, and that it should also include the other functions not within it today. What is the problem, however, is Kongsberg Hospital. The situation is much more difficult and calls for the attention of the Council of State. Kongsberg Hospital calls on the attention of the Council of State because today it does not have radiologists on guard and not emergency surgery – two functions. If one allocated 10 million. kr more to Kongsberg Hospital, it could have been a full hospital. Kongsberg is the war material capital of Norway. It's a potential target of terrorism. It's a strong popular commitment. Hospital is a political choice. It has to be a priority, and the interaction between Drammen and Kongsberg can work well, but Kongsberg has to develop into a fully-fledged hospital. I ask the Council of State to elaborate on it in its article. The future of Kongsberg Hospital: a full-scale local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1295	I have wondered about a word that has been used a lot in the debate this fall, namely the claim for the rationalisation of private services. I understood it so that it means that if someone has established an offer, e.g. For commercial purposes... excuse me, President! I have taken the wrong posts! Can I start over?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1300	Yes, please – it may happen!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1303	The right has been out in the media throughout the autumn and has claimed that we have received a class division of health care. It has been justified by the fact that more subscribers to private health insurance. Such insurance should not be necessary in our country, has the Vice-President of the Right, the representative Bent Höie, repeated several times a fall, a statement he made in a line change from this pulpit today went back on. Now it's not that dangerous with private health insurance anyway. And that's the way day goes! Another evidence of the classed community is, according to Höie, that several allegedly pay out of their own pocket for health care. What is the truth? If we look at the purchase of private health insurance in the Nordic region, such purchases have primarily speeded up when the right side has had power. In Denmark, the proportion of such insurance increased dramatically during the bourgeois period. In fact, Norway is far behind other Nordic countries in this area, and only a small fraction of such insurance is with us individually drawn. Most of them are enterprises and often include young, healthy men. The right claims that we see significant growth in the purchase of healthcare paid out of own pocket. A claim lacks a basis for research. SINTEF has conducted a survey that suggests that the trend we can see in the increased purchase of private health services is often a type of service that is not part of the public health service offer. This could be done, for example, by: are cosmetic services, different alternative treatments and other types of services that we have gradually received in Norway. Many researchers point out that increased private purchases of services in health and related areas have not least to do with the fact that most of us have gradually received good advice. We are increasingly spending our private income on our own well-being, on well-being and on our health – in a broad sense of the word. And there's a lot of people going to do it for years to come – without any cause for disgust. We, as politicians, should strictly keep our focus where it should be: on how we spend community money for the benefit of a health care system that should be for everyone. If we look at the political handling of private health insurance, we quickly find out what is the difference between the Workers' Party and the Right. The civil government introduced tax exemptions for employer-paid treatment insurance in 2003, despite the fact that the Right has always said that such insurance is not necessary — or perhaps not. The Stoltenberg Government decided in 2006 to remove the tax exemption and instead introduced earmarked subsidies for the Raskere scheme, which is managed by regional health businesses. The next year, this is 530 million. kr, and there is to be rehabilitation and multidisciplinary treatment provision. And that's true, as they say, public health is the best health insurance we can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1316	Today I am deeply disappointed. I don't know. 11 today we were told that the Research Council has said no to all research at ME. The quality of the projects is good, but it is the economy that limits them. ME is a serious disease. There is still a great deal of disagreement in Norway about the diagnosis. Patients are not believed to be ill, patients are not treated, there is very little help. Many are left to the family. It concerns children, in the case of young people, in the case of adults. I myself have been visiting several families. I've had to list myself into dark rooms, and I've cried my brave tears afterwards. The researchers report that Flye at Haukeland Hospital has raised a great deal of international awareness with her research at ME. Their results show that much indicates that ME is not a mental illness, but a physical disease, a so-called autoimmune disease. Their project has given new hope to ME patients both nationally and internationally – this because they have also been given a medicine that actually works well. Some have become completely healthy, some are in recovery. When the announcement of Flye's uplifting research became known, then Minister of Health Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen went into the media and launched that the government would raise 2 million. kr for further research – this was last year – and it was done. In this year's budget, a further 2 million have been set by the government. kr. But this is far from enough. It remains – after the last numbers I have received – approx. Nine million. kr in order to have this project fully financed. When we have as large a patient group as Norway is unable to provide adequate treatment, we need to take political responsibility – not least the government, which has a majority – and make sure that everything that can be done to solve the ME guess is done. Then research is what is absolutely crucial. Through the President, I would like to ask the Minister of Health, on behalf of sick M.E. patients, today to ask the regional health companies, for example, to set up funds – this is not a research project in one regional health company; it is nationwide – or find funds through the various posts that I know the government has, and the whole Storting, all the parties, are going to stand behind it, I am not in doubt – or please allow the government parties and the others to recalculate 9 million. kr on today's budget. It's not too late, we're not going to vote until tonight – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1327	I heard the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen give a witness about patients who are satisfied with the treatment they receive in Norwegian hospitals, and I agree with the heart that there are many. I am convinced that all, most of them being treated, are very satisfied with the treatment they receive in hospitals in Norway – or with other services they need, within the healthcare system. The challenge is that it is approx. 250,000 people who do not receive treatment or the healthcare they need and who are in a health queue in Norway in 2012. It helps very little for the 250,000 people to know that all those who get it are satisfied with the offer they get. It's really good for them, but they also want to get treatment. Then I think the debate that we've seen becomes quite special – the fear of the private and this that you don't have as hot hands as those who work in the public sector have. I think if you work in health care, you have warm hands whether you work in a private hospital or in a private health service, or you work in public health. If it's true that those who work in the public sector have warmer hands than those who work in the private sector, it's a little strange that more government councils and more representatives from the red-green parties buy health insurance or buy healthcare via the private sector, which obviously don't have the same warm hands. Or is it perhaps that the hands are just as warm with those who work in private service as with those who work in public service, and provide health care to people? I don't think the 300,000 people who bought private health insurance do because they want to get less warm hands to treat themselves. I think they do because they want treatment, and because they think they get the best treatment. And it's actually so that this is what's involved in creating a class distinction. What this government is doing is what it's doing to create class distinctions. What this government is doing is making sure that those who have money buy themselves in line because they have money to do it. And as others say to me, if I turn up NOK 2,000, I get to check what I should have checked, in a day or two, but if I'm going to wait in public, I might have to wait for three months, for eight months or even more. I think maybe you should be a little more careful in this debate. What I was really going to talk about was the air ambulance and the air ambulance service in Telemark. We have received a response from the Council of State saying that Telemark has one of the best services in the country. That's not true. Business, politicians and health professionals all agree that it is not right. It would therefore have been to hope that several parties had participated in the Progress Party's remark to ensure an air ambulance in Telemark in line with what they have in the rest of the country, so that you have an equivalent ambulance service, whether you live in Telemark, in Finnmark, in Nordland – or where in the country you live.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1338	The Progress Party is concerned about the development of care for the elderly. Despite the fact that a few months ago we had another campaign where care for the elderly was the main theme, the government is failing again when it comes to practical policy. The Progress Party believes that there is a great need for both a massive expansion of hospitalisation sites and a statutory right to take place in the event of medical needs. The government has repeatedly presented the promise of full hospital coverage. The government’s own figures show that there is a net increase of 1,146 hospitalisation sites from 2005 to 2010. This is in stark contrast to the government's stated objective. The Progress Party believes this underlines the seriousness of the situation and shows the need for a change of system. The Progress Party therefore proposes to change the funding model, so that it is the medical need that determines whether or not the individual should be given sick leave. The Progress Party believes it is a public responsibility to ensure that there is good care and care for older people. This offer should not be limited because you live in a poor municipality. Everyone has the right to a decent and good care and care when they need it in their old age. This is precisely why the Progress Party wants care funding to be a state responsibility, and that the money follows the user to the level of treatment that each individual chooses. Since the responsibility for the care of the elderly lies with the municipalities, the Progress Party wants to grant more money to the municipalities. In the last four years, the Progress Party has proposed a strengthening of the local government's economy by over 10 billion. kr more than the government. The Progress Party takes care of the elderly seriously. It is a pity that care for the elderly does not become a higher priority of today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1353	Now it is about the concept of ‘rationing’. The right-hand side uses it to describe that there is no free access to everything that is offered in the healthcare system. I believe the right-hand side means that if someone has established an offer, e.g. for commercial purposes, it is only for patients to put it into use – public pay, no priority is necessary. I can't see that you've taken this into account in the budget, at least not the right. We know one thing: massively free establishment of offers within a patient segment with the right to send the bill to the public, makes demand follow. All the research shows it. There is no door guard function capable of counteracting or opposing such dynamics. The result we get is pressure on both human and economic resources. It means massive centralization. This policy is very bad news for the part of the country I come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1363	The Progress Party proposes a significant commitment to Norwegian hospitals in the budgets. We're doing more grips. We are proposing to both streamline the operation through red tape through the closure of regional health businesses, and we are proposing a cut in the use of consultants and the central administration of enterprises. Hospitals must be able to treat patients more quickly and with higher quality. That's why we're proposing to cancel the hospital debt by 1 billion. kr, and we assume that this is reinvested in a modern ICT system and medical-technical equipment. Furthermore, the Progress Party proposes a significant strengthening of patient treatment. This is done by adding 750 million to health care businesses. kr for increased patient treatment and that the input-driven funding is increased to 50 pst. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to allocate an additional 750 million. kr for the purchase of treatment capacity in the private and non-profit sector and for treatment abroad. Overall, this budget allows for a reduction of 50,000 patients in the number waiting for treatment — from the current level of 277,000. In addition, increased patient treatment due to new investments and efficiency in the operation of healthcare businesses will be added. It will also contribute to the release of migration funds in health enterprises undergoing conversion processes. The Progress Party prioritises patients to return to work in its budget. It helps many to return to work more quickly and can contribute to increased tax revenue and a reduction in the payment of sick pay. In my region, Health West, the Progress Party in its alternative budget will increase by 473 million. kr. In addition, efficiency gains in own enterprises and the effect of the introduction of neutral VAT will have an additional effect. As if not enough, the Progress Party will also strengthen the Health West with a new air ambulance located in Haugesund. This shows that the Progress Party prioritises good health care for its citizens by focusing on the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1378	I record that the Minister of Health is returning to the fact that a reduction in tax revenue, as a wealth tax, will result in a reduction in welfare supply. Not only do we get indications that reduced government revenues will have the consequence that there will be a reduction in red tape and red tape. So today’s government sympathises with the bureaucrats, not with caregivers and sick people if income goes down. We see that today we have an overbureaucratic society. Regional health care agencies are a good example of this. The signatures themselves have experience in regional governance in the Middle Norway RHF, where one of the top goals was to extend the control to a suitable number to keep red-green control. So the size and costs associated with this were subject to control. We were charged with projects in the mission document, among other things. cost cut in operation to finance a new hospital in Molde. When it incurs planning costs of up to 100 million. kr, the money was spent before the entire project was dropped. So this is almost 100 million. kr toss away due to a lack of control. This is one of several projects that show that regional health care agencies are out of control, not least on the IT page, where one has as many IT systems as one has hospitals. One thing they have in common: they don't communicate with each other, and they create a lot more work. Gong after I asked for coordination of IT investments, but it never happened. With such a pressure as one there had on the economy, and with many delaying precisely because of the weak economy, one found still willing to enter into an ideological debate about public or private ambulance services. The answer was basically given in advance because of the arrangement of the board. Red-Green Public Solution was selected, at an additional cost of over 100 million. kr. Neither did the costs any longer mean that the service was good at quality. This was well known in advance. Other regions had gone from private to own production, with large additional costs, without having been able to measure a difference in quality. These were two concrete examples of the fact that if a person is unable to obtain control and good structure of the hospital supply for what represents the population in a suburb of medium-sized European cities, a throw in the glove. The promotion team would like to add health services where they feel that they can provide good health services with a reasonable use of resources, because the need is so great. It is then necessary to establish a governance that has a national overview and from there, in a sensible and consistent manner, governance, rather than protecting regional health professionals, which has repeatedly shown that the time for conversion has come. For where is the sense that half of Norway's population is in one RHF while the rest is divided into three?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1393	Now we have been sitting in this room discussing the health budget for 2013 for three and a half hours, and I do not believe – except that I have been out in one post – that the word ‘teeth’ has been mentioned by anyone yet. It's kind of weird, because dental health is important. This may not have been mentioned because the government has not followed up its election vow etc., etc. But if I leave that ball, it's at least important that we also focus on dental health in this debate, because there are many who are struggling with dental diseases, and there are high costs. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party has an impact on people who have a lot of money in terms of teeth, by changing the self-esteem of this group. Finally, dental staff who have suffered amalgam damage have gained their own compensation schemes. I have to say, I understand that amalgamated patients think it is strange that they too do not get such a replacement arrangement. I am pleased that in this committee position there is an overall committee which notes that we in Norway are throwing too much food. Every fourth carrier bag that we're going to trade during this week, we're unfortunately going to throw. We can pull our shoulders and say it's not us, but the statistics tell us something else -- that's the way it is. Then it's good that there's a joint committee that focuses on how we can throw less. Then the food and health profession is important. We know that many of us throw food because we don't get the date stamp. We do not know the difference between ‘best before’ and ‘last use date’. There's nothing wrong with raising your skills, and at least we have to start with our youngest. We see from the statistics that there is this competence less available. I am pleased that there is a joint committee that supports the ForMat project and the various projects that they have so far. Then I just want to say at the end of my post that I'm glad that there's an overall committee that supports the work that the Church's SOS is doing. It is an important offer for the prevention of suicide, as a good interlocutor. I expect the Council of State and the Department to be able to clean up what chapter and what line they will be in next year's budget, so that – one – they will be mentioned, and – two – they will be under the right chapter and heading.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1408	The representative Erna Solberg argued for the Right Privatisation System earlier in this debate, saying that the goal was for patients to choose ‘where there is capacity’. That is a good goal, but the big debate is how the Right's proposal affects the capacity. There I believe there is still a clear answer, because we know that it is that some types of intervention, some types of treatment, some types of diagnosis pay off, while others do not, and that it largely controls where private commercial offers are established – in contrast to the private ideal offers, which are, of course, just driven by a different type of motivation. But if you want to give an opportunity to trigger public money on any private offer that has the capacity to do so, we know that it will affect the structures of Health-Norway, affect what kind of capacity is being developed, and thus also who gets help. It won't be the weakest, marginalised, as the representative Erna Solberg spoke about – it'll be the opposite of those who have the diagnosis that it pays for commercial treatment. It will create major challenges and differences in health. It will make it more difficult to finance a good public offer to those who need it the most. In addition, it will mean a greater pressure on the most important scarcity we have in the health care system, namely people. It's not like it's going to be a single extra doctor or a single additional nurse or assistant because if you create more private offers. But it is that there can be a stronger competition for competence. There, too, if we get more and more very profitable commercial offers, we'll be able to experience that the public becomes the loser, and that it will go out on those who need it the most. On the right, there is still a major explanation problem about how to have a rhetoric about the weakest in the health system on the one hand, and on the other hand, proposes a system that will obviously reinforce that type of problem. The same contradiction comes in the Right's constant cannons against private health insurance. I stress that there are marginal figures of how many private individuals in Norway are taking out private health insurance. It's the employers who do it. It shows that most people don't think there's any need for it. But the right, when they put their power in the last time, had a goal of stimulating this through tax laws, and then the rhetoric that you're now coming with seems special and strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1421	This has been an interesting debate. All the performances of the Labour Party and the Red-Greens may indicate that the main priority of the majority government in 2012 is to find out who will replace it in 2013. That society the Labour Party says we're going to tear down is the society the Right has been involved in building up for years. The right has helped to build a welfare state with, among other things, a social safety network and tax-funded health services for the population. The right has been in the driver’s seat for a responsible economic policy, including: through a reasonable use of oil money — to secure jobs and tomorrow’s pensions. The attacks from the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens may indicate a frustration over the government's inability to bring down the health cows, raise the quality of school and build new roads, and desperation that time is now running out for the red-greens. The special strategy of the Workers' Party seems to be a direct import of the worst from the American election campaign. Caricatures, parodies and scare images must create polarization – they construct scary images that they then argue against. I don't think that's worth it, and I don't think it's fair. Relatively small differences are quality in Norwegian society. It is not primarily a social democratic or conservative value, but a Norwegian and a Nordic value that the Right will retain. The main difference in Norwegian society is that children leave primary school without being able to read and write properly, that young people fall out of high school, that too many fall out of the labour market because of lack of basic skills, and that there are long treatment queues and lack of services in mental health, drug treatment and rehabilitation. The right is concerned about creating opportunities for everyone. We're dedicated to bringing down health cows, getting up quality in school and investing more in research. We want a strong and well publicly funded health service where people get high-quality help when they need it. We can achieve that goal if we also cooperate with non-profit and private hospitals on healthcare. We must become partners for the public and not be seen as competitors. If we are to secure a society of well-being that works, we must think again. We need better solutions, willingness to change, and we need to let go of all good forces and give patients and users security, diversity, quality and freedom of choice. It gives better and faster help. It will create security and ensure well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1436	After listening to the debate, it is striking that the opposition, then I mean the Right Party and the Progress Party, does not talk about prevention and public health policy in its contributions. There will only be talk about the need for treatment, and the new focus is free treatment options. I would therefore like to re-examine a few points about prevention and public health policy and stress the distance between the red-green party and the Right and the Progress Party in this area. In the row change, one could also get the impression that this is a policy area where all opposition parties can easily be found together. What I mean is, I'm glad of some political realities. In the field of nutrition, the Government Party and the Christian People's Party state in the Committee's comments on diet that they: ‘where the country has to actively use price instruments and charging policies in order to contribute to changing behaviour’. In the case of physical activity, the Government Party and the Christian People's Party state in the Committee's position: ‘there is a basis for assessing the increase in both body and other physical activity in the school compared to the current level.’ [[...]] In the alcohol field, there are even greater distances. The Progress Party will abolish the wine monopoly regimes and sell spirits in the grocery store. The Right Party and the Advance Party agree to liberalise alcohol laws so that municipalities can be allowed to donate alcohol 24 hours a day and that the wine monopoly should be open both Christmas Eve, Pentecost and election day. The Christian People's Party stands for a completely different line, more in line with the preventive red-green health policy, and will reduce the maximum drinking time of alcoholic beverages by one hour. In the summer, several Right Party and Advance Party representatives ridiculed the government’s decision to introduce the 18-year age limit on solarium, even though we know that this public health measure, as many other countries have already introduced, is to prevent feces – a very deadly form of cancer that affects many young adults, and where Norway is currently at the crossroads when it happens. One of three cancers can be prevented. We're just debating treatment. But by the fact that the Right, which is opposed to free fruit and green in the school, against the work of increasing physical activity in the children's and youth's sphere and allowing children and young people under 18 to freely use carcinogenic solarium, the Right shows its true face with a lack of public health policy. In the debate, it is well explained that blue health policies will mean privatisation, worse conditions for voluntary and non-profit organisations and a weakening of public health. It's bad, but it's reversible. It is worse with public health policy. Missing, blue public health policies will lead to more disease in the population in the future. This is irreversible for those in debt, and in general this will be a threat to the welfare state as a whole in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1464	First of all, thank you very much to the representative Davøy who raised the issue of breast-feeding and lack of resources for such an important thing in our society. I'd like to pass the staf stick on to the Minister of Health. I expect him to respond, and I would ask him to act and find the $9 million. kr a need for this. The progress team thinks that everyone should have equal opportunities to have good health and not least to get that treatment one needs as early as possible. The security of individuals in a difficult situation must be focused, as shown by the Progress Party’s draft budget. There has been a great deal of uncertainty about health in some areas, and it is especially important to listen to the governing authorities that everything is rosary, and that one is not soft enough to the individuals who are exposed to mistreatment, waiting time or lack of treatment. A look up in today's VG is about Kari, who got cancer diagnosis one year ago. If she had received the denosis when she was going to, she had dropped the radiation treatment and the stoma. It is frustrating and painful to read about such fates. The fact that she got the benefit of Norwegian patient damages, does little to help against the stress she has suffered, and not least has ways of living with, given that something could be avoided if she had got what she actually had a claim to. It's a tiny cross of mind when you see that a license is nearly 100 million. kr more in the 2013 budget than in the 2012 revision just for Norwegian patient damages. One may almost think that one is expecting multiple waitlist breaks and another is expecting multiple errors. Treatment delays are of little help when such cases appear at times, in spite of promises from the government. One often forgets that this costs a lot for both the debt and the community. Therefore, we need new ideas, new ideas and new choices and opportunities for the individual patient. The Health Authority has recently reviewed the waiting list practice in Norwegian hospitals and continues to find signs of rooting with waiting lists – especially in this group that Kari belongs to. The waiting time leads to unworthy insecurity for the patient, but one must be aware that it can also lead to additional diagnostics that provide both mental and physical extradiagnosis. If you have one disease picture, you can quickly get more because of waiting lists and root. The progress party wants to see less of such lookups - preferably none. It doesn't make any better for waiting lists and roots, that you have obsolete computer systems and systems that don't talk in layers. At the same time, one must think more whole - souled. One must have a strong focus on socio-economic and think about treatment, sick leave and rehabilitation, so that the totality of a patient ends up with a shorter path of illness and a long path to recovery. The progress game wants more people to do what they want best to do. That is why we want administrative tasks to be carried out by others, that one is more conscious and not least more effective than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1483	Thank you for that. It is good that the Council of State comes after me, because I have some questions for the Minister of Health. Let me look back at yesterday's edition of the VG and the situation at Oslo University Hospital, where it is said that there are 122 intensive beds but use less than 100 of them for budgetary reasons. Health South-East management is reported to be on track and will carry out all the operations planned until Christmas. Nevertheless, from November 15 and out, 26 of the operations, we see that the operations are shifted. You do not use the capacity, but you report that you are on the route and that all the operations will be carried out. This is how the debate on health policy has been the last year. My question to the Minister of Health is, What's right, and what's wrong? Is the opinion of employees at Oslo University Hospital incorrect? Is that the management I'm supposed to be listening to, or is it the employees? I am very in doubt, and I also understand that all patients waiting for treatment are in doubt when you have such a system, such a situation and get such a description of the Norwegian health care system – which indicates that you have come out of control completely. We also look at the waiting lists. In the debate today, we have heard that the waiting lists are going down. At the same time, we also record that in the debates in the open room, in the public and in the NRK during the debate last week, doctors are standing up and saying that the waiting lists are cheating – they are cheating. They are longer than what is being notified. What's right, and what's wrong? I understand that Norwegian patients are dismayed, worried and wondering what is really going on. I would like to hear from the Minister of Health: Whom shall I listen to? What's right, and what's wrong? I also record that several reports confirm, among others. in the case of Ahus, that patient safety has been poorly ensured. Some patients may have – it is established – died due to mistreatment and lack of staffing. Why don't you provide enough staff in Norwegian hospitals? Why not introduce manning standards? I record that the response to SV's party leader and parliamentary leader, Audun Lysbakken, on how to resolve the health crisis in Norway, is to improve basic manning. He has brought forward old progress party proposals, which have been promoted many times by the Progress Party, on increased manning through manning standards. It's good to see someone comes after. I also hope that the rest of the government will come after and attend the Progress Party in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1502	I want to start by saying that there has been a good debate, and I want to repeat what I have said in a previous health debate here: I don't suspect any of them I disagree with for having bad motives for the suggestions they have, if they want to solve things in other ways. That's why I'm a little surprised by the representative Sjøli, who called the Workers' Party unworthy and accused the Workers' Party of introducing American states without giving an example. I assume that we can agree that we can disagree, but that we can actually also agree on the goal, to improve health care. To the representative of Kjønaas Kjos and Michelle: I didn't say she didn't understand it by earring, but that I don't think it with earring is the most important thing for her. And I mean that. I believe that the most important thing for her and others who need these services is a good professional level, that the services correspond to the needs, that they exist near where they live, and that those treated can be followed up according to their needs. We add: we have allocated more money, we have a big message for treatment, and we want to focus more on quality in the treatment of drug dependence. I would also like to thank the representative Solberg for explaining that I do not understand the municipal situation because I come from abroad. But she should understand this, the one who has been a municipal minister. My point is that the total economy of municipalities has something to say about the overall efforts of municipalities for health. Therefore, it is my opinion that the local economy in general is important for how to provide public health, care services and a wide range of services. I just point out that there was a broad uprising among Hørre's own rapporteurs in 2005, the local economy was poor, and the rapporteur at Hitra said that it was not possible to implement the welfare policy for which they were responsible, with that kind of budget – that was my point. Therefore, I believe that a strong cut in the total income of the state has, which is also to be distributed to the municipalities – I know it comes in the municipal bill – over time will have something to say for the services that can be offered. Then I agree with the representative Davøy regarding ME. I am surprised at the decision of the Research Council – let me put it this way. We have put into the budget continued support for Health West's research, which will take place in cooperation with the other regions. I expect that in 2013 a device will be made in the Research Council that will enable clinical research to be addressed in this area as well. I am not in favour of now throwing around on this budget and depriving myself of anything at the last moment, but I can assure the representative Davøy – and we keep in touch with the Stortinget – that I will be in contact with the Research Council on this topic and clarify the expectations when we get into 2013. These are controversial areas where there are professionally strong views that draw in different directions. So I'm not going to conclude that, but there's obviously a need for research, and there's also a clear need for resources to go into knowledge acquisition and research in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1518	President, to a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1524	The president is in doubt if it's allowed, but, please. The President hopes that the misunderstanding is evident.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1527	In his first post, the Minister of Health said that the cuts in the property tax would be at the expense of the municipalities. What I said in my post was that they were not taken out by reducing the municipal framework. It must therefore have been a misunderstanding if the Council of State has perceived that it was in general. So the issue is that the property tax is neutralised in the arrangement of the municipalities, and the cuts will have no effect on the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1532	Does the Council of State wish the word for that misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1535	I think if Solberg's representative heard my entire contribution, she would know that it focused both on what the wealth tax has to say in terms of distribution in Norwegian society, and on the tax cut promise of between 30 billion. And 100 billion. kr over a four-year period. My point was that in some way it will have an impact on the local government's capacity and economy. The fact that the Solberg party in this budget has made arrangements and arrangements in which it is believed that the cuts in the property tax – which is a small part of the total they propose for the next four years – should not affect the municipalities, well, that was a useful clarification. But I do not think there are any misunderstandings about the overall picture, and I do not feel that what I was hearing now clarified in a particularly convincing way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1540	But as far as the President understands, this is the budget we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1543	A lot of the health debate we've had lately has mentioned a lot of what's happened a few hundred meters away from here with regard to the Health East and the challenges that are there, and that's understandable because it concerns a lot of people. But Health-Norway is so much more than what's happening here in central circles, and let me, as a representative of the districts, express my concern when I hear that representatives of the dark blues so warmly mention the private offerings. We can agree that the private offerings are a good addition to the public, but that the private ones are going to be equivalent to the public, as the right side wants, concerns me. And why? Well, for the simple reason that the private will establish where the market is, and the market is central rather than Kautokeino or Mehamn. And is there any reason to worry about that? Yes, because there is limited access to health professionals in this country, and we all know that the challenges in the future will be even greater. In the struggle for these resources, my clear fear is that it will be the districts that will be drained for competent personnel, and the losers are us who live in the districts. This fear is real, but unfortunately completely absent from the rhetoric of the dark blues. The decentralisation of the specialist health offer, which we are doing so well, is one of the offers I fear will be the loser. I would like to highlight the positive thing that is happening in my own municipality, where we have gradually – without having a hospital – received very good specialist health services. I fear that if we get a government change, the offer in the long term could be hit. But as the Minister of Health said in his first post, he wants to be Minister of Health even when we pass 2013 and 2014, and I support him in that. I want to join our voters, from this pulpit and on other occasions, and to draw attention to the consequences of the options we are facing, especially when the right-hand side says it will change Norway. In health, the right-hand side wants to give priority to the private establishment, but the Workers' Party will give priority to patients, including those who live more than 300 km away from the specialist health service. There are many in Norway who live at such a distance, and therefore it is important to have good services in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1550	So I asked for the word for a three-minute post to pick up some of the things I wasn't supposed to say in my original post, and to comment on some of the things that have come out in the hall. First to the Second Post of the Council of State: I am very pleased that he once again stresses that he respects and believes that we have a genuine desire to improve the health system. That's the whole point. We propose other solutions when we see that the solutions of the Workers' Party do not work. It's with the solutions of the Workers' Party we've got the big health cows, that's where we've got the long waiting times, that's where we see that the system is more important than the patient, and that's exactly why the Progress Party has other solutions, which we have the pleasure of promoting in this budget. I'm also very happy that the council corrected the picture we put back in; he said he didn't say what we thought we heard about Michelle. Michelle is a great girl who fights every day to remain restless. It's been a long and tough fight, going on every single day, and I have a lot of respect for both her and everyone in her situation. When she was confronted with what Gahr Støre had said in this room, she said clearly and clearly that she understood well what earring was, and she also said clearly that – she was quite convinced – that earring disappeared from the municipalities, would make the offer for her and others in her situation worse. I think we should respect that as well. I also want to draw attention to the so-called new aging that has now arrived, where the government – at a price – proposes to increase the hospital budget by 250 million. kr because the activity growth has been higher than assumed. That's very good. But the proposition also clearly says that with the 250 million. It's about 90 million kroner. kr more than that foreseen in Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 – i.e. the one we are dealing with today. This really means that if we adopt the government's budget today, we will have a budget below the level of activity to which it is added in the new era. Then it would have been interesting to hear what patient groups it is that we should down priorities when the budget for next year is 90 million. kr less than this year. In the end, I just want to reply to the representative Toppe that she could not have followed very well in my post. I talked about both prevention and rehabilitation. I'm proud of all the suggestions we have in both fields, and I also want to remind you that it's only a few weeks since the Center Party itself voted against our proposal for more physical activity in school. So there's a piece between life and learning in that party still.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1563	I have a few brief comments. For the Right and the Advance Party, tenders and competition are very important. It must also apply where the offer is lost, but then all of a sudden the pipe gets a different song. It is then either to be granted, re-adopted, or at least there are other criteria to be taken into account – such as whether we are set here to assess who has a professional basis and who is to be awarded a contract. I have no reason to say that one or the other should have something, but I think this is repeated in debate after debate. Last year I think it was rehabilitation institutions that had lost their bids, and it was those who had to get the offers. The right has become the defender of «the ear tags». They want to return the money that has now been given in the framework of the municipalities related to alcohol. Yeah, that's good, but we also think the municipalities can do the job. There's no new money on the right, but they want to take it back. So for the privatisation and use of private solutions in health: here we disagree in both quantity and extent. There is no unknown problem. But what we should include, as the representative Lyssbakken was inside, is the availability of personnel. We don't have an abundance of health workers. We're dependent on recruiting from the outside. That's why ethical recruitment is also important, which Per Arne Olsen's representative obviously has not understood – he hangs it on an event in one place in the near past. Private and public compete on the same track, and it's very often the pay that decides. The public loses in that competition, i.e.: that we have a movement of personnel. There's one side that we rarely discuss, and I'm glad that the representative Kåre Simensen is also involved, that this applies not only to recruitment from countries from which we are careful to recruit, but also to our districts. So a little comment on Kjos' articles about hospice. That's where we've been given very good advice from the Medical Association, as we see it, that palliative treatment is a special field. That's why it's important that we build good palliative solutions and good places where people can be allowed to die, but these places may need greater multidisciplinary competence and a large apparatus and advanced equipment, so we can't expand hospice everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1574	Sonja Irene Sjøli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1577	I understand that the Minister of Health was indignant about parts of my contribution, but I will ask him to go through the minutes both from the debate today, from a debate we had here last week, and also from the financial debate, and he will see that the Workers' Party and the other red-green parties mistrust and misinterpret the Right's proposal quite deliberately. They construct a reality, and then they argue out of it. This is particularly true of the free choice of treatment that we have proposed. We clarify and clarify time and time again – without luck. But what I really asked for was the representative that Davøy took up, namely the research at ME. The right has granted 10 million. kr on its alternative budget for this research, and I am pleased that the Minister of Health also sees the importance of this research and support for these environments, and that it will be properly followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1584	Thomas Breen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1588	I record that after I asked a specific question – and that's all I've asked you today – about the ICT bet and the budgetary technique of the Right, the Right has been up on the pulpit three times without answering the one question they've been given that is concrete. It's kind of funny, but I guess it's related to the fact that while you tried to ignore it last year by saying that I didn't understand the budgetary skills, you don't choose to comment on it, because the Ministry of Finance has given them a letter that says exactly what I said last year. So then we get to wonder if it's such that the Right no longer stands for a policy where one has budgets that are linked, or if one has cancelled the ICT bet. The voters and others will find out when they do not want to know about it in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1593	I don't feel much better, to say it like that, and certainly not the patients either. I'm still empty and sad. However, I would like to thank the Council of State for its good words and expectations, but expectations for these patients are not, in fact, enough, because they have had it for years. I just have to point out again that Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, as Minister of Health, was making great expectations when she, in Dagsrevyen, rejoiced over the research project for Mella and Fluge. We all thought that now the money is coming, now they get the money for this research project – obviously they get it. Then it didn't come, and on my written question to the Council of State, the answer was: The government can't give direct money to research, it has to go through the Research Council. But the government went $2 million. kr last year and has given 2 million. kr this year until exactly this research, and now it is even approved by the Research Council in a quality manner. I think that research can also be an instrument when we have a patient group where no other offers are available. I'm not saying it's for everyone who's been diagnosed with ME today, but it's for a lot, and it's for many of those who are at home, with probe feeding, with diapers, maybe problems turning themselves around, etc. – again, I've been visiting them. Then I have to say that in 2007 there were also created expectations from Sylvia Brustad. Now she was going to set up ten beds for ME patients, sheltered, quiet, quiet, here we would really get a good offer in the specialist health service, an investigation for ME patients. All right. I asked questions, because those beds never came. Then I asked the question to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. Then it had become up to ten beds. Then I asked questions when Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen came. Then there were two beds. Today I have received an e-mail from a mother asking: Are you aware that there has only been one bed? On Sunday I received an enquiry from a mother with three children in the family with ME. She says it like this: «We live in the hope that the three will have a viable life in the future. Now they only exist, and with great sorrows and pains every day." They suffer every day. Now they have to wait until sometime out in 2013. The Health Minister expects, but there are no promises for these patients, with as many expectations as it has been for many, many years. Finally, I have never in my life wanted to become a Minister of Health. But truly, today I want to. If only I had been today!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1609	I'd say to the representative Davøy, as the king says, it's never too late. One wants active seniors, so stand on! I want to answer some of the questions that have come to the right. First, to the interest compensation scheme, which the representative of Breen is very concerned about: when the Ministry of Finance answers questions other than those asked by a asker, an answer to something other than what you have asked for, and that is what happened in that case. What the opposition is proposing is exactly the same as the scheme is in the municipal sector, in school, in sports buildings and in the church. It works great there. If you were to do the same in the hospitals, it would have required some changes to the statutes. But for the Right and the Opposition, it's easier to make some constitutional changes and get an ICT bet than just talking about it, as the government does. It is a model that works well and can also be introduced within enterprises. So to the discussion about health businesses. Today's debate has shown that the SV, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party are to shut down regional health companies. There we also join with Buskerud Arbeiderparti, who says that ‘the Buskerud Ap believes the regional health companies are a bureaucratic intermediary in health policy’. That's what Bjørn Tore says, the desert, who is the leader of the Busherud Workers' Party. That the Workers' Party chooses to spend a lot of time defending a model that they are the only party that stands for, they get to do so, but Right-wing objections to the model we largely share with a broad political Norway. So to the attacks on the Christian People's Party because they want to cooperate with the Right in terms of preventive health. Well, prevention health is going on anywhere other than in the health budget. I think there's a broad consensus on that. This is why, among other things, it proposes: Right in our alternative budget, tobacco taxes are higher than what the government is doing. All opposition parties propose 200 million. more to volunteer, especially sport, in our joint proposal in the financial situation. We're for more physical activity in school. So we have a commitment to prevention, but we have it in those areas where we can actually succeed in getting results. Preventive work on the health budget is not always the best success. So to the Council of State reference to the deficit of health enterprises in the years Right in government. It's quite amazing that the Workers' Party is somehow indebted to the Right. I would like to remind you that in the budget negotiations in 2004, when the government negotiated with the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party demanded that the balance requirement for the hospitals be deferred, and demanded that hospitals be allowed to report a deficit. And then they come into the debate and owe it to the Right that the hospitals went out of business, when there is a claim from the Workers' Party that has been met. That's what's the truth. In addition, the Right proposes more money to health companies than the Workers' Party does, 150 million. kr. We're not suggesting that they have to go with deficits, as the government does, to keep the same activity next year that they have this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1622	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1625	First to Per Arne Olsen: It's great to see that the Progress Party is busy with physical activity. The proposal he referred to was a proposal that had been made without budgetary coverage. There was also no vote against it, but the Minutes were attached. To the representative Bent Höie: It's a rather amazing answer, I thought, given to Thomas Breen on the lack of funding for ICT bets. It's not a good idea, and it seems that the joint effort from the ICT opposition was an overcrowd. So finally, that right should be for increased physical activity in the school. Then I would like to ask the representative Bent Höie to go into the Minutes in connection with the representative's proposal from the Progress Party which the school-political spokeswoman said about it: This is not a priority proposal and a bet from the Right's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1634	The next speaker is Arild Stokkan-Grande. Stokkan-Grande is among the last of those who have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1637	It's a shame that there's misinformation on this speaker's chair from Bent Höie. In fact, in the Ministry of Finance's answer, it is pointed out that VAT compensation is to be provided for this sector, the loan must be carried over the line. This has not been done on the right, and that is why – and it is clearly pointed out by the Ministry of Finance – there is a gap of 2.2 billion. kr in that calculation. It should be corrected so that the information is not attached to it. It is clear that when the Right is challenged and gets concrete questions about their policies and their policy solutions, they turn around in the chair. Now you've tried for the longest time not to answer the challenges. Now we got an answer, but it was also wrong. Therefore, it is important to challenge the Right that this should be clearly answered by both the voters, patients and those who run the business, because one must expect that one will not circumvent the truth and that one will act with actual figures when budgeting. Here, something essential is missing in the calculation of the right hand side, and it deserves an explanation. Their answer when they are challenged about this is that now the Workers' Party is going to run an American election campaign, and that you are going to get high and dark in relation to this and other debates. This is a well-known tactic with which we see the right-hand side operates throughout Europe, including in American politics. It's an attempt to paralyze the rhetoric of the other parties that are unreasonable. It must be possible to have an open and free debate and to ask questions about the solutions that other parties go for, especially when discussing budgets, without being charged with unfair play and a U.S. election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1646	The President shall not beat for the term ‘high and dark’. It's over then! The representative Bent Höie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1651	I'm neither tall nor dark, so it's going perfectly well! I will again be allowed to try to explain this question to which the Labour Party has received repeated answers, in the previous budget debate one year ago, and which they are also being answered again. The model proposed by the opposition is the model that Trond Giske introduced for the municipal sector for financing investments in school buildings, sports buildings and church buildings. It is fully possible to introduce also for health establishments if they are willing to make any changes to the statutes. For the opposition, it's more important to get an ICT bet than to defend the statutes, as if there's something that's determined by a higher power than the one that's here. No, it's determined by this magnification. That means that the Storting can make a change. It is fully possible to invest in enterprises based on an interest-rate compensation scheme provided by the State in the same way as is possible in the municipal sector. The fact that the Ministry of Finance chooses to answer a question other than theirs really undermines the Ministry of Finance's task of being an investigator for the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1660	The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1663	I'll be very brief, President. I'll thank Bent Höie for that clarification. He hereby confirms that there is no opening to do so within the framework of today's legislation. That means there's undercover in that bill of 2.2 billion. kr. It's very good to get it clarified in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1671	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1685	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 35 minutes, the Progress Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left 5 minutes each, and the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed to give rise to a sequence change of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1694	First of all, I am proud to be a party politician today. I am proud of the budget presented by the Progress Party. I am proud that we have a draft budget that will lead to increased employment and lower unemployment. It is also well established in the conclusions of the SSB after they have gone through the alternative budget of the Progress Party. The party of progress records that there have recently been massive attacks by the government parties, which insist that the party enters too large a cut in the sick pay scheme, large cuts in the payments to the unemployed and cut the daily allowance for the unemployed. With respect to reporting, I can strongly cancel it. The Progress Party wants to maintain the level of health pay that we have today. The Progress Party has no plans – either in opposition or in government – to change today’s sick pay system, except at one point: we want to improve it by providing a longer sick pay period for cancer patients. We do not want to reduce the level of social benefits to the underprivileged, and we do not want to reduce the level of day-to-day pay for the unemployed. I hope that debate is dead with that clarification. We've also taken it quite thoroughly in the financial debate. Although much is good and much is going well in Norway, we face major challenges. I record that many people are out of work and want to get into it. 84 000 people with disabilities say they want to be part of the inclusive working life, but they are now outside. I record that there are 37 000 fewer people with disabilities in the workplace today than two years ago. I record that in the last ten years the proportion of people with developmental disabilities in the labour market has been reduced from 30 pst. to 13 pst. - from 30 p.m. to 13 pst. It shows research from NTNU. It shows that the medicine used by the current government has not led to a more inclusive working life and labour market. The Progress Party is committed to taking on the talent of the individual. We're concerned about seeing the possibilities of the individual, and we're concerned about realizing the dream of the individual who wants to get into the world of work. Let me show you three stories: Soraya Ahmed, a 37-year-old woman, a mother of three, lives in Trondheim, fleeing Iraq in 2002. Soraya's been on social assistance for one year, and what does she say? She says the following: ‘I don’t like to receive money from the state. I'm stressed out. Gaining wages means freedom.’ And she goes on to say, «I'm healthy, I'm young, I have work experience. I want to work." She says that she strongly dislikes going to social assistance, and that because of the lack of follow-up to get into work, she has now offered to work free at the SFO at Kolstad School. Stian is another one that I have also referred to earlier from Stortinget's pulpit. He's from Røyrvik, North Trondelag. He's at the beginning of the 20s and lambs from the chest down. His great dream was to become a wheel loader driver. He was offered to quit school, take a professional course and get into other education or apply for disability benefit. Through good efforts from the Forgetty Entrepreneur, Stian has today realized his dream: He is a wheel loader driver, even though he is paralyzed from the waist down. Rolf, who dropped out of school, has mental problems and lives in Trondheim, had lost faith in himself. He was taken over by a collaboration project between the refurbishment company Prima in Trondheim, a project that Rosenborg Ballklub runs, RBK – young at work, and Nav, which they got on the team. They have helped Rolf to have faith in his possibilities. They've helped him see his talent and find his possibilities, and he's on his way back to being a construction worker in Heimdal Entrepreneur today. In this way, the Progress Party wishes to strengthen its draft budget with a number of measures that will provide opportunities for a more inclusive working life. We therefore want 7,300 more sites for action. We want to upgrade Nav by 65 million. to follow-up people at risk of disability. We want to strengthen Nav by 75 million. kr to get people back faster instead of giving them sick money. We want to increase the redundancy pay by 309 million. kr. We want to increase social entrepreneurship by 15 million. kr. We want more work-training projects for young social welfare recipients, and we strengthen it by 25 million. kr. We welcome projects such as Green Care, into the thin and blue seas, which are an example from Austevoll, and strengthen them by 20 million. kr. We want such a merger of the sports, the hub and the reintroduction companies, as RBK – young in work is, and as many people have started up, precisely because it works, because people succeed and realize their dreams. We're strengthening this work by 20 million. kr. We strengthen actions aimed at young people with mental health problems, including: Ribo in Nordland and Unikum in Oslo – with 15 million. kr. This is a massive effort from the Progress Party to get a warmer and more inclusive working life. At the same time, the Progress Party is very concerned to ensure a policy that leads to a safe welfare society, based on man. We want a welfare society that is built from below and up, and that is based on man – not a system like what we see today, where we are concerned that man must adapt to the system. The Progress Party will therefore have a welfare society that strengthens the rights of the most needy. Let me take from the rights of seriously ill children, and I also refer to the proposal for a representative for the Advance Party in terms of care allowances. Let me take three quick stories too here: Markus, nine years old, has a rare and severe muscle disease, and only 1 pst. Of those with the disease, more than ten years of age. He walks with a hand-held respirator every day to be able to breathe. He needs follow-up 24 hours a day. Rolf Kristian is an 11-year-old boy with whom we got acquainted through TV 2. He has a very rare and serious illness. He cannot keep his head up, sitting or standing, and needs follow-up 24 hours a day. We were all apprehended by Bertine, the three-year-old, cancer-sick girl who saw death into her children's eyes. Common to these three stories is that they were not entitled to care allowance in the red-green welfare state. The Progress Party wants a policy based on man, prioritises the weak and gives them the opportunity for good care and follow-up. That is why we have chosen to strengthen our budget in that area in terms of care allowances, so that parents can be at home and take care of theirs in a good way. I finally record that the government has given up the fight against poverty. I record that the Minister of Labour today's Evening Post admits that she has stopped talking about it. So I note that the government's poverty policy has gone from wanting to eliminate all poverty with a pen stroke to wanting to fight poverty, which has then ended up in full resignation and to having stopped talking about it. I just want to remind the government parties of what is said in Soria Moria II that the government will ‘allow children in families living on social welfare to have an independent right to activity support’. Furthermore, the government writes that it will ‘develop further cooperation with and increase support for user organisations and other voluntary organisations that make a great effort for the welfare community’. This cannot be said – with respect to reporting – that the government has followed up in a good way. Support for voluntary teams and organisations in our areas has been on-site, so to speak, for the entire four-year period. The Progress Party wants to make this promise, get this interaction and ensure that the poor children can participate in activities in the same way as other children. That is why we are strengthening efforts towards voluntary teams and organisations by 100 million. kr in our alternative state budget. With that, I am tabling the proposals on which the Progress Party is alone, and the proposals we share with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1768	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1773	For a long time, the party has tried to make itself comfortable with the country’s pensioners and has a number of comments in the committee setting, including in this area. about the scheme that many people use and that is called contractual pension. Here's what the Progress Party says: ‘These members distance themselves from a policy in which the State is to subsidise the pension to some selected persons, in order to obtain a ‘golden edge’ early retirement scheme.’ I would like to ask the Progress Party to confirm that they are also distancing themselves from such a policy if it would be possible for the Progress Party to enter into a government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1783	Now I'm not quite sure if I understood the question of Gullvåg, but I'm going to try to answer anyway, to the best of my ability. Yes, the Progress Party separates from a policy that discriminates between its pensioners, where its taxpayers provide an additional pension to one group of people, while others do not receive the same benefit. We think that's wrong. The rules for pension in popular security must be the same for all, with strengthened rights, and that's something we want to fight on for even if we're going to be in government. Now when I have the opportunity to talk about retirement, I would say that the Progress Party will also work actively and fight with beaks and claws to remove one of the great injustices, namely the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners, which has become even more unfair with the new pension system. So we look forward to coming into government and correcting many of the biases that the current government has created in pension policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1794	With a single proposal in this budget, the Progress Party makes an estimated 17 000 children poor. All the money spent on other poverty measures by the Progress Party has been taken from single-parent families. There is an income these families may have while the lone parent qualifies. There are two and a half times as high a risk for these families to remain in poverty if they do not qualify for work. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that this is a passive social benefit, and that if the requirements are there. On the other hand, they think it's okay to pay people cash support to be home with two-year-olds. Why is it passivating to qualify with transitional benefits, while it is not passive to be at home with cash support when we know that there are two dependants and two incomes – while these children and these families have only one income, which the Progress Party takes from them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1803	Firstly, it is right that the Progress Party reduces the number of years of transition aid, from three to one year as a general rule. The Progress Party believes that the most important way to combat poverty is to ensure that people get out of work and become qualified, as we have schemes and benefits for already today through redundancy payments, that they qualify for work as quickly as possible, so that they have the freedom to live on their own income. Then I also draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party maintains the derogation even if we reduce the number of years, which means that if you are in the necessary education, you become a single-parent before the age of 18 or have children who are particularly in need of supervision because of disability, illness or major social problems, you may have transitional benefit for a longer period than one year. In answer to the question: I see no reason why the Progress Party weakens this, we strengthen it by getting them to work faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1812	We heard about Stian's dream of becoming a wheel loader driver. I'm glad. The government parties and the Center Party have similar dreams that we realize every day. For example, Hærhre Entrepreneur does the same job. That's good. The party of progress now says that one should not cut off from sickness, disability and unemployment. That's good. One shall secure the weak, says the Party of Advancement. My question is about the labour market situation. In the labour market, we have strong and weak groups. Does the Progress Party also want to strengthen the weak groups in the labour market, so that they can gain greater power through trade unions and thus receive a payment that gives a level playing field in society? Is it also within the work of the Progress Party for the weak in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1821	No, the Progress Party wants, and is in favour, to remove the tax deduction from the trade union quota. Given that half of the working life is organised and half unorganised, the Progress Party believes that the Norwegian people should have freedom of organisation. We do not believe it is right for this House, by the Stortinget, to contribute to specific discrimination in the tax system in terms of who is going to receive deduction schemes or not on the basis of an organisation association. I think that's also a basically good point of view to have. Then I think that we need to strengthen our cooperation with the trade union movement and with the employees through tripartite cooperation, because I don't think, with respect to reporting, that the NOK 3 750 that you can deduct is completely insensitive to maintaining the strong Norwegian trade union movement or not. I think it's completely different things that have to do to succeed, and then I think a better tripartite collaboration is the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1828	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1832	This budget shows clear and clear political differences between the government and the opposition. This budget also shows that the autumn elections are a clear direction choice for Norwegian working life as well. The government has led Norway in the right direction for seven years. We have record high employment. More are at work than when we took over, and it's through a financial crisis. Less are on social welfare, and we have record low sick leave. The IA agreement works. We are cutting high in international work environment surveys, and we are the sixth best country to operate in, according to the World Bank. These results have not come of their own. They are the result of conscious political choices and a hard political struggle over time, for the elements of the Norwegian model have not come about by themselves, and there is no consensus on them. Each and every element that has provided these results is threatened by the opposition parties. It is this choice in 2013 that must be, and should be, about, whether different attitudes towards ownership of natural resources, state ownership, the strength and role of the trade union movement, respect for tripartite cooperation, safe economic governance, equality or all the reasons for the quality of Norwegian labour. We have created jobs and strengthened workers' rights. When the Right ruled last, they created few jobs, and they weakened employees' rights. This line is still in the position of the opposition, and this line also bears this budget. In the last seven years, we have strengthened Norwegian working life with two action plans, over 30 measures to combat social dumping and involuntary part-time empowerment, we have implemented the pension reform and the under-reform, introduced the job strategy, several new measures to strengthen the work line and the Qualification Programme, we have followed up the Nav reform, we have got a new IA agreement, we have introduced the Jobjessen, we have invested in social entrepreneurship, and we are now coming up with the new youth promise and the new job redeployment attempt, to mention something. We're on the right track, but of course we're not on the right track. Things aren't perfect after seven years of red-green rule, of course not, but we're on the right track, and we want to go on. We need four new years, because we are hungry to continue to solve the major challenges we face in Norwegian working life. We'll give even more opportunities for good life along the same track to get more. We want to continue in the fight against social dumping, against unprofessionalism and labour crime. We have announced a third action plan on social dumping. The opposition has warned that the measures that we have put in place, which have worked, will be reversed. We have to go on in order for more people to join in, against exclusion. More can and will contribute. They must be allowed to do that. We'll get more involved by creating an even more inclusive line of work. To get more people involved, Nav has to work. That is why Nav is also winning in this budget. Nav gets what Nav needs to be able to follow people up better. With 735 million. kr to ICT in Nav, we're going to approach a hub that's better equipped to accommodate and help people, with more self-propelled solutions. The goal is for those who want and know to be able to use their iPhone as their Nav office for simple enquiries. That's where we're going. To get more, we continue and strengthen the job strategy with new measures in this budget as well. We make work and education trips on a permanent basis, and we set up a system where we use redundancy money as a wage subsidy. We are also strengthening in the budget the fight against social security abuse. Drug abuse is stealing from all of us, it's stealing from the community. It must be more rigidly turned on and more must be taken. A well-functioning society does not waste its resources. A fair society does not allow anyone who can – but will not – be free passengers to send the bill to others. For the Workers' Party, the workline is the one that applies. It pays to work. You shall do your duty, and you shall be able to claim your right. But our workline always has two tracks. You have a duty, but you also have a right to get help when you are unable to master your life, and when you are unable to get out of work and activity yourself. Giving up people is wasted with opportunities and resources – which we can't afford. We're putting Job balance in the budget – 30 million. kr to get specifically immigrant women into work and activity. We are also putting an extra effort on young people in this year's budget. Young people who become unemployed for a long time are at high risk of remaining so. It's wasted on human resources, wasted on labour. It's a problem for society, and it's a problem for each young person. One must start early to build good lives. When the kids show up in the Nav office, it's really the last chance. The main effort is to prevent, at child protection, in kindergarten, in school, on responses to ‘drop out’, on mental health. We also want to move on in this area. That's why we have, among other things, enhanced child protection. We have to move on even when the youth comes to Nav, to the last chance. We are therefore putting in the budget the youth promise, a strengthened and renewed youth guarantee that will apply to all young people coming to Nav. They will get one person to deal with, not be sent around. Within one month of standing on the stairs or picking up the telephone line and contacting Nav, they shall have a schedule of activities drawn up with their supervisor. That plan shall include measures tailored to individual young people, their needs and their challenges. It can be as simple as an appointment to get up in the morning. There may be a need for action, rehabilitation or other treatment. Everyone has the greatest responsibility for his life, and everyone has to contribute. But you also need to get better help and support when you need it. We are also strengthening the fight against involuntary part-time in this budget. Involuntary part-time is unemployment, and it is to be combated as it is. We are therefore following up the commitment of several years earlier also in this budget, with 25 million. for local measures and trials. With a pen stroke cutter Right and Left the whole pot and tell all of these – especially the ladies – that their problems are not worth prioritizing, either with political attention or with money over the budget. We see, as I said in the vote, clear political differences between government and opposition. Where, in recent years and in this budget, we have given priority to measures that ensure welfare systems and strengthen the working line, the Right and Advance Party have given priority to tax cuts, attacks on the labour environment law, weakening workers' rights, tripartite cooperation and resistance to the fight against social dumping. It is not a forward-looking policy, but a backward policy, where the challenges meet with old solutions. The left will cut the sick pay scheme by one month. In addition, they want the sick person not to receive 100 pst. paid, but 90 pst., when they are ill. Right and Left want to introduce government templates through standard search messages that determine when to return to work when you are ill. We believe that you should return to work when you are in good health. The Progress Party has an unbalanced budget, with a total budget of 3 billion. kr in sick pay and disability and claims that no one should feel it on the body. Yes, I know that the Progress Party guarantees that no one will be cut in the performances, but, with respect to reporting, this is not a matter of action. Our – i.e. the government’s – estimates of the cost of popular security have been calculated by the experts based on actual reality. Estimates of expenditure and revenue are based on the projection and analysis of accounting figures and demographic trends. It is considered normal budgetary practice not to take into account the possible effects of measures that do not involve regulatory changes. This jumps the Advance Party bend over – they jump over it, moan on and want more savings than is realistic. The dynamic effects are undocumented, they are inflated, and the consequence had to be cut or otherwise. That's what this is about. Some people have to take the bill for the big tax cuts – in another budget. Then I have more respect for the Left Party. At least they say right out that they want to change it to make the sickness pay system worse. With the magic budget of the Progress Party, with the priorities of the Left – while we know that the debate on the qualifying days and the health pay system is hot internally in the Right – and the questions that have come to the department in this budgetary round, one does not need to be psychic to understand that the health pay system is threatened if the citizens are to have the chance to come to power. The reason is that well-being costs, and so does tax cuts. We're prioritizing the first, the opposition obviously the last. There is no doubt that employees' rights will have to be paid for a civil government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1879	Let me remind the representative Trettebergstuen that, in the revised national budget, the government proposed to cut sick pay by 2.3 billion. NOK, in the daily allowance of SEK 1.40 billion. kr and in the disability allowance of 500 mill. kr. In the 2012 balancing budget, there is a further cut in the daily allowance, with 504 million. kr. Why do you do that? Well, that's because estimates have fallen. When the Progress Party uses the same experts, the same estimates, it is referred to as unprofessional. I think that's strange, but we'll get back to that. My question is – for well-being was not mentioned in a single word: in the case of sick children who do not receive care – which I referred to in the pulpit – how sick do children in Norway have to be in order for them to receive care from the red-green welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1886	That's what I thought -- sorry about the expression -- vulgar question. I have a lot of understanding that very many people are in a situation where they don't feel like having the right to care, but think they should have. There is a great deal of understanding for all those who are in such a situation. We have to have rules and boundaries. The representative Eriksson knows just as well as I do that we are waiting to deal with the Kaasa Committee's position in Stortinget, and is going to come back to these things there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1895	The recruitment sector is an important piece to help out as much as possible in the world of work, and many recruitment companies across the country do a brilliant job every day. But there is a lot to tackle in the field – waiting times, cooperation between Nav and other actors and, in particular, accurate and up-to-date information. This is one of the reasons why the so-called Brofoss committee was reduced, which delivered its report almost a year ago. The approach of this sample was three-fold and at least two of the proposals involve major sectoral changes. But since the selection, we haven't heard anything concrete from the department or from the government parties. This means that a whole sector with tens of thousands of employees and action participants now lives in uncertainty. Can the representative tell which of the three models from the Brofoss Committee she will recommend and when, if so, will there be a follow-up to the Brofoss Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1902	I would like to say to the representative Graham that we are going to the Stortinget with a case on the Brofoss Committee report in an appropriate manner before the autumn's elections. It's clear. I don't want to go into model 1, model 2 or model 3 in the Brofoss committee's report. I don't think it's as simple as just choosing a model. The representative Graham can be sure that we will spend a good amount of time – we are working well on the sample report – and will come to Stortinget with a case that will result in a strengthening and improvement of the response field. That's the most important thing for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1909	In the evening post today, I see that the Council of State says that poverty is now less about children being hungry – to a lesser extent than what, and when, I think. In recent decades, it may be said, the debate on poor children has focused primarily on children’s participation in social activities – the problems with it. Some families are still hungry – at least the influx to the Fattighuset is large. But my question is, if it is that poverty today is less about children being hungry, what are these statements based on? If there were any investigations by the government or others, it would have been exciting to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1921	Of course, I do not exclude that there are children in Norway who go hungry to bed. It's a shame, and it's very serious. However, compared with all other countries, poverty in Norway is more about social exclusion than about hunger and need. When we use the OECD targets, which we calculate from the outside, and a family where father earns 600,000 kroner, mother is at home and you have four children, and is poor, it says little about our poverty limits being different from others. We believe that the best way out of poverty is the way to get self-sufficient, get people out of work. We have record high employment, more participation in the labour market now than when we took over, and fewer social assistance. That's our most important line. Of course, we also need effective measures to address the children living in low-income families. We have also strengthened this in every budget in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1928	That's when the queue change ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1931	The challenge for Norway is summed up very well by the Brochmann Committee. They write: ‘Although employment in Norway has been exceptionally high in recent years, the number of people depending on public transfers has not been reduced. If these developments continue, in parallel with population ageing and a likely decrease in gas and oil revenues, government expenditure will increase faster than revenue in a few years.» Then we're just talking about macro numbers, that is, the social economy, and the consequences for the whole of Norway, we're not talking about the consequences for the individual. We're not talking about the feeling of being given up, the feeling you get when you don't get the chance to handle yourself, the reluctance you can experience by being passive, or the unworthiness by being fed off with a check instead of getting into a job or having to contribute more. Right goes to elections next year on new ideas and better solutions. We believe that we have a policy that can help reverse development and equip ourselves better for the future. What's the right one suggested, and what's what we want to do? Well, we want to strengthen the working line first – and most importantly – and make sure it pays to work. For those who say that it is like this for everyone today that working pays off, I recommend reading the report of the Brochmann Committee, to which I referred earlier. How do we do that? Well, in our budget this year, we're going to put 100 million. to introduce the obligation of activity for young social clients. Our goal is that it should be a firm activity obligation for all healthy social clients — always. Let's take 50 million. Inactivate young people so that getting a disability benefit does not automatically mean giving up. That's the message from many today; that at the moment you get a disability benefit, you don't hear from the system anymore. We take funds from the transitional benefit and put the funds into active job measures and follow-up. The transitional benefit keeps women out of work, prevents integration and prevents equality. But we make exceptions for those who are under education, and we make exceptions for those who have particularly demanding children. We're doing something about – not just talking about – the length of the illness cracks from state to state, it's not based on profession. It doesn't crack because one is a carpenter and the other is an office lady, it's based on where you live. That is why we propose the same thing as Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg proposed in 2010 – and the Prime Minister then found that it had worked in Sweden – namely, norms of treatment, but of course with the possibility of individual treatment, and the possibility of extending the application, if necessary. We do this through a tax policy that is not particularly radical, but which will gradually — step by step, a little every year — make it pay more to work for them with small, low and medium-sized incomes. Instead, the government’s tax policy has been — two years in a row now — to implement the most unsocial tax increase of the time, namely a tax increase directed directly at sick people in Norway. It must take some effort to get a tax increase that is so targeted at those who are ill in Norway. The government’s response to the obligation of activity so we today — after seven years, the municipalities have been called to a dialogue meeting. Point 2: The right is based on the individual, not the system, and wants action that works. It does not help to measure the number of action sites – i.e. just think the number – if people are not in the right action at the right time. We have a big system, but it's not a system that delivers the results we can expect. Figures show that in the case of e.g. the dissemination of work with assistance, the best community, Telemark, is able to pass on eight out of ten to work, while the worst counties are two or three out of ten to work. The right has stated clearly that the requirements need to be clarified, and suppliers who do not deliver cannot expect to continue their operations. We are placing massive emphasis on wage subsidies, and we believe that more of the training must be done in the labour market. We have also consistently – every year – called for more information from the government. For one of the major problems in the reintroduction sector is simply that we do not know enough. We still do not know – and the government does not know – how long you, for example. will have to wait for action and for how long to wait between measures. It is precisely that kind of policy, and the fact that you – I was saying – do not want to know knowing with knowledge and will, which means that we get people who go on action year after year without getting into work. At present, reintroduction holdings have a certain predictability. Although the government has done its job in the last few years to try to disrupt it, there is still some predictability for reintroduction companies. Ideal businesses such as Fontenehuset, Retrekt or JobbX – measures that contribute unduly to getting people to work – live from hand to mouth. The right is proposing a new system in which all those who contribute to getting people back to work will be rewarded for it – not as a substitute for today’s action sector, but alongside today’s action sector. It should just be lacking that when Nav actually uses social entrepreneurs, volunteers and private people, you don't pay for it. The right also strengthens psychiatry in its alternative budgets, but even more importantly: we have proposed – several times in this room – a systematic effort on reading and writing training in Nav. We must not just rust up the systems, we must rust up the people. Point 3: Right will ensure a strong working life that can give more than one chance. The right ensures the basic safety of the labour market. We ensure the protection of employees against unworthy conditions, we guarantee the rights of the organisation, and we guarantee the rights of the unorganised. We are in the fight against social dumping and have voted in favour of 19 out of 24 proposals that have come from the government. We're not saying what the former health minister said, that the work environment law is sacred. Through small decorations and careful liberalisation, we believe that we can ensure that businesses get more flexibility in periods of plenty to do. We believe that we can give more employees a chance for a little more flexibility in everyday life – as many demand. We can put the user in the center by having several trials with alternative turns that are easier to start, easier to get approved and that can last longer. And we believe that more people who are outside today can get a chance. Unfortunately, the government's response has been that a comma should not be changed in the Working Environment Act. Point 4: On the right, there is a massive effort to get disabled people out of work. The employment rate among disabled people is falling, and my colleague from the Right in the Committee will talk more about this later. Point 5: The right also has a targeted response to poverty. Poverty is often a more complex problem in Norway than it appears in the political debate. If there's something we've been proven in the last seven years, it's not possible to remove poverty with a pen stroke, as Kristin Halvorsen, as SV leader, once said. Trying to pay or afford away from poverty is unlikely to work. We must tackle the causes of poverty, not just the symptoms. It's about a school policy where everyone learns to read and write, and where you get the social differences down after ten years of school — not that they're increasing, as the situation is today. It's also about free core time in kindergarten, which the Right puts money into its budget. It's about prioritizing psychiatry, youth psychiatry and drug treatment and bringing down the queues. It's about the right-wing consistent focus on the workline, from the activity requirements to the payroll. It's about reading and writing training. It is also a question of aggressive addressing one of the most important causes of poverty in Norway, namely debt problems and major economic problems. The right has submitted a proposal for a representative during the period. As far as I have seen, the government has done little about the matter. And then it's about a policy for the children, too. Although the goal is to get people out of poverty, it is unfair for children to be affected by the poor or poor advice of their parents. The right-hand view is that all children should in any case be provided with facilities to take part in sports activities, that all children should attend school and that all children should participate in leisure activities. The government has – shamefully enough for a government that thought it could afford out of poverty problems – not even clear. This type of action for poor children has been underfunded every year, including in the next year’s government budget. These are some of the Right proposals, some of our new ideas that we think can help to rust Norway for the future. I will address the proposal that the Right has with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1979	The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1984	The representative, Røe Isaksen, did not mention sick pay in one word. Right-hand talk about sick pay a day. Nor is there anything about sick pay in their new programme design. However, the Hard facts programme asked the representative, Røe Isaksen, what he thought about the sickness pay scheme. In this respect, the representative said that if sick leave were to start to rise again, the new measures to be taken had to be assessed. In the budgetary process, the Right asked the Ministry to calculate the proceeds of reducing the sick pay period to 10 and 9 months respectively and to extend the working hours to 8, 12 and 26 weeks respectively. When you ask that kind of question, it's probably because you're wondering and evaluating. The voters and the council deserve answers to what the Right stands for in this context. What new grip, if any, does the representative of the Red Isaac stand in if sick leave rises again? And can the representative Røe Isaksen, despite the questions that have been asked, guarantee that there will be no withdrawals, sick pay or increased earnings if the Right would come to power in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1991	Thank you for the question. The premise is a little wrong, because I said something about sick pay. I was talking about norms of health messages, this proposal from the Prime Minister – whom he commended in 2010 – that the Right has now re-examined. It's not exactly a new idea, but it's at least a good solution, in which we agree with Stoltenberg. I remember in the 2001 election campaign that Prime Minister Stoltenberg's government had worked on different models of sickness pay. It is quite natural – if sickness absences in Norway were to explode, it is quite natural to look at other solutions. However, the truth today is that the IA agreement reduces sick leave, especially in the private sector. The right has not proposed any reductions in sick pay in the last seven years, and unless the Right’s National Meeting decides otherwise, there will also be no changes in the current sickness pay scheme with the Right in the Government. I can repeat it: so if the Right National Meeting does not agree otherwise – we always make a reservation about it – there will be no change in today's sickness pay with the Right Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e1998	Poverty among children upsets us. Therefore, it is also quite outrageous to hear that the Right Party, which removes the need-tested grant that goes to the poorest families, the disabled who have children – there are over 30,000 children who receive it, in order to have a normal life when parents are too sick to have a job – is now also releasing the income of lone dependants while qualifying for work. The scheme that the government has now proposed, which has worked for one year, is such that no support is granted beyond one year if you are not in qualification or on measures to lead to work. Therefore, either the Right wants these children to become poor, or the Right saving has been introduced into their budget is notional, and therefore the Party has a budget that is not linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2005	It is not that the Right in its budgets has removed the child supplement from the disability allowance. We have said exactly the same thing as SV's government partner, the Workers' Party, that we want to look at the children's supplement. We have not concluded with a model, but we have exactly the same policy as the Workers' Party. I know that SV means something else, but the Workers' Party and the Right have said exactly the same thing in this case, and it also has the Center Party. As regards the transitional benefit, I think it is illustrative to use cash support for two-year-olds as an example to explain it. There are 41,000 families who receive cash support for two-year-olds – there are NOK 3000 per month. It is clear that if you do not get anything to remove cash support for two-year-olds, you only make people poorer, but the whole point of the government in that case is that the support prevents work – it prevents people from going out to work. We have exactly the same reasoning when we say we're going to have a transitional benefit for one year, and then we're going to give action and activation afterwards, instead of paying people social benefits to be at home. It's the same logic applied to another type of system – and it's really surprising that not the government parties do it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2012	One does not need to be a rocket scientist to learn that as the competitive community becomes increasingly tougher and labour immigration is increasing, social security and transfers will naturally increase in society. Right says they want new ideas and better solutions, and that's good -- we all do. Much of what goes on in new ideas and better solutions has to do with prevention, it has to do with what is happening in municipalities. I have a certainty that there are very many of the red-green voters who are active in this because they are directly affected by it – they are close to it and really want to do something about it. My focus is prevention and jealous relationships. The right representative said that 19 out of 24 proposals against social dumping had supported – they did not support the many important ones – and that the red-greens would not change a comma in the Working Environment Act. My question is: won't it be that if you're going to reduce benefits, you need to put more money in order to make better arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2019	First of all, working life: it's enough that some changes in some places can make working life tougher. It is also good research evidence to say that tough shifts, especially if done, can increase sick leave. However, there is nothing to suggest that the drop-out in Norwegian working life is due to a generally brutalised working life – rather on the contrary – there is very much to suggest that Norwegian working life in general is very good. Therefore, it is likely that the exclusion mechanisms will have to be looked for elsewhere. In the case of reduced performance, it is such that the right hand side, for example: has entered into an agreement with the Government Parties on the disability benefit. There we have agreed on the level of disability benefit. We were a driver to make it easier to go from disability benefit to work and to adapt between the two. We agreed with the Workers' Party to have openings to do something about the children's supplement later. So it's not like the right has gone in to reduce it, for example. failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2026	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2029	What is happening in the labour market is incredibly important for the distribution of both power and money in Norway. Therefore, SV is so busy that we manage to maintain an orderly working life where we have the right to decide collective agreements, where we have control of the work environment law, and where we do not open up more temporary employment and unsafe working conditions. That is why I am very pleased that the government has made a massive effort to combat social dumping with strong measures. Unfortunately, the opposition is voting against the most important of them, those who ensure that the lowest paid with the hardest jobs do not have to get a much tougher working day and lower wages. Because that's what this is all about. And it's such a work life that is being pressured by the unemployment that we see around us in Europe. There are thousands of people coming here, and many of them get a job. I'm glad, but it pushes the payroll, and it pushes the working environment downwards. Then it's incredibly important that we keep what has been the most important distribution of power and money in this country, and that this work life is so that several of those we're all talking about now, who have health problems and plagues, are going to get out of work – that they're also going to have a work life that goes on in, live with and live off. A working life without the measures taken by the government to combat social dumping is not a working life where these people will be able to take their place. There will be lower wages, there will be harder working days, and there will be more uncertainty with more temporary employment and more temporary workers. It's not a work life for those who need to get foothold there, and who are struggling with other problems. There is an increased effort to get young people to work in this budget, and there is an increased investment towards part-time work. These are incredibly important areas that SV strongly supports. There is a strong debate in Norway about poor children, and we will talk more about it, because there is reason to complain. But I get quite upset when I hear that the parties that, by direct decision in their alternative budgets, make thousands of kids poor overnight, take away the income that a lone parent should have while qualifying for work. I underline it again, because it is clear that neither the Advance Party nor the Right can read what is in the setting, namely that this is an income you have while qualifying for work. You remove it. It is estimated that 17 000 children are affected only in that scheme, and it is that if you do not qualify, you do not get that money. Then there is nothing to save if you say that you should get the money if you qualify. And we do it just because we know that these parents need to qualify. For those who do and have used the scheme until today, they have got a job. The same parties think it's all right to pay people thousands of dollars to be passive at home on cash support. The families, who have two dependants, you have to take care of and give thousands of dollars. That shows the distribution of these parts very, very clearly. Something else SV does in this budget of very important things about the poorest children is what we do in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. We have the largest child protection effort in 20 years. Child protection goes like a black, evil thread through generations of evil lives. That's the most important thing we can do if we want people to get a better life and break out of the risk of poverty. We also focus massively on what is called Jobjeansen, namely that immigrant women should even be able to be visited at home to be motivated to join and qualify for a job. The reason why most Norwegian children are not poor is that we, as mothers and women, have qualified and paid for ourselves. That's what it's going to be for the immigrant women as well. It's a long way, we have to have patience in the bet, we have to qualify them, and we have to motivate them to get to work. It is in these families that child poverty is increasing, and then there is no point in taking away from them the income they can live on while qualifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2040	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2043	SV probably agrees that prevention is important. It is particularly important for people with disabilities, both on a leisure basis and at work. But how does SV justify setting the 26-year-old limit for self-payment for help to prevent and provide all disabled people with a better everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2049	That's a very simple answer to that. It wants to work to get to, because we agree that there is an age limit that can prevent people from getting the help they can benefit from. So that's what we want to do in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2054	Two years ago, the government saved – if I don't remember correctly – 20 million. SEK with a half-yearly effect, 40 million. kr, with a full-year-old effect, to cut the system of PCs for children with difficulty in reading and writing. At the same time, government parties have consistently voted down all the proposals that have come from the Right to bet on reading and writing training for adults. This is one of the things that we know is that many people don't get to work. At the same time, this year's government has gone for what I have called the most unsocial tax increase of the times, a cut in the deduction of large disease costs, i.e. a tax increase directly targeted at those who are ill in Norway. Does the representative, Andersen, think that this has been a good policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2059	In the case of computers for children in school who need it because they have difficulty reading and writing, they have this right today. It is the municipalities that have a duty under the law to ensure that these students get that PC. Those who need special equipment for their PCs that need to be adapted to the individual are still the Navs in charge. But I have also received some reports that this system is not working well enough, and we have therefore asked the Ministry of Knowledge to go through this. Because it is absolutely necessary that these students receive the technical assistance they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2064	Government party representatives have largely referred to many new measures coming into the budget — certainly good measures — and in their general comments, government parties refer to the job strategy for people with disabilities and ‘provides that the government continuously assesses the need for new measures related to it’. My question is whether the representative believes that setting up new measures is the most important thing in a situation where we do not fully know what is working and not working out the measures we already have, and whether time really is ripe for an evaluation of both the structure, quality and effectiveness of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2071	Well, there is a need for a review of the quality of the measures, but there are some of the measures we have in the job strategy with which we have good experience and which we can focus more on in the future. I also believe that the very biggest obstacle in this area is actually an obstacle to the attitudes of employers, but also, I think, among other things. in the education system, in terms of how to take care of, encourage and manage to facilitate the actual realisation of the potential of people with disabilities. I also know many employers who complain very much, both because some people have prejudices, and because some people think it is much harder than it is actually to hire people with different types of disabilities or chronic diseases. I think we have to work on the measures and evaluate them, yes, but we also have to work on attitudes, because it prevents a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2076	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2079	Universal welfare systems need to be further developed and renewed on an ongoing basis, irrespective of participation in profitable working. It's very important for the Center Party. It's incredibly demanding, and it's getting more and more demanding. Then it is important that we focus on prevention, not least among young people. This requires that municipalities – both administrative and elected – give priority to it and focus on it. I encourage everyone – when traveling around municipalities – to focus more on the prevention work among young people on the issues I address here. It's far too little focus on it compared to the heavy, dead things that a lot of times discusses. Work is what creates values, and that's what helps to create powerful people. Increased use of contracted labour and increasingly unbridled employment make it more difficult and difficult to monitor compliance with relevant legal, regulatory and wage and contractual conditions. This applies to employees, but not least to self-employed workers. There is far too little focus in Norwegian society on the activities of the self-employed. Self-employed workers are generally less organised than many trade-union groups, and we see in transport, construction and agriculture that economic conditions develop that for employees would be very, very difficult to complain about. That is why I am pleased that the government also has a focus on the marine operators, and I hope that this focus can be strengthened. In the case of employees, a strong trade union movement and the authorities ensuring that the rules are respected depend entirely on a strong trade union movement. This is why it is maritime for the Centre Party to support new instruments that allow authorities and trade unions to implement action packages for more equal treatment of hired workers. This is incredibly important in terms of the work to prevent social dumping. The historically high level of labour migration today contributes to the pressure on wage and working conditions in several sectors, including the — maritime — in the sectors where there are many unskilled and where the proportion of education at higher education and university level is low. In Norway, despite what has been done, we have received a real wage growth that is divided differently. Real wage growth is clearly weaker in a good number of groups, and it has been proven by the SSB’s wage development statistics for the period 2000–2010. This has to be more focused than it's been so far. Differences in earnings are higher in the private sector than in the public sector. It is important that we follow up with, among other things. Labour inspectorate and ensure that one here is given value in working life. It is important to point out that government parties are promoting a number of proposals – which have not been supported by the Right and the Advance Party – to ensure that we are getting more effective instruments in the fight against social dumping. Similarly, there is the issue of Petroleum Supervision. There is a need to change the funding system, thereby respecting the principle that industry should pay for supervision and expenditure, and otherwise follow-up to industry. It's a system of government parties going for. The party of progress is clearly opposed to the industry being burdened in this way and thus prioritizing differently, while the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have unclear formulations at the point. Finally, two areas within our expenditure budget: Work clearance money is a reform from 1 March 2010 which includes 37 billion. SEK and 171,000 people. Everyone in the system has a four-year period for clarification. It is important that Nav ensures that users receive the follow-up they need, and that this becomes a priority task for Nav, so that people cannot risk – after the four-year period – being in a situation where they have completely uncertain income relationships. The same applies within the permanent work. Fortunately, there has now been a significant increase in the government budget, but the allocation framework is clearly too low. It is known from school how many people need permanent work. It should therefore be an automatic transition from school to permanent work so that the young people concerned are given a safe and good transition. It is important that there is a need for close professional follow-up, regardless of whether it is in ordinary or sheltered activities. It fails in many cases today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2097	I'd like to refer to a media statement from March 30 this year. There, Vice President Ola Borten Moe says the following: ‘Yes, it’s obviously too easy to get dissatisfaction when you see the numbers of young people going up, both in absolute and relative numbers. At the same time, the proportion of elderly deaths is declining as a percentage of the population. Admitting disability benefits to young people should not really happen. It's not good for society, but it's most demanding for the one who's going on social security. It is necessary to call for warning of the future of the welfare state when we see these figures.’ So the numbers come from the government's own policy. My question to the Central Party and to the representative Lundtägen is as follows: What concrete action does the Central Party want to take to address the concern expressed by Vice-President Ola Borten Moe in this media release?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2109	First of all, the concern is that young people can and should be able to get a disability benefit. Based on their situation, a number of young people — as older ones — are in the situation where they need it. That's point one. Point two: Is it that too many get social security? My impression is that there is strict treatment in this area, so I don't initially agree that one is debilitating when it comes to distributing disability benefits. This has been said a lot about many years, and the focus in Nav is strongly that there is something one – as far as it can be – to avoid, and we are very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2116	In some of the municipalities that have tried to have an activity obligation for young, healthy social clients, it has been, pending measures that qualify for a job or get people back to school or something like this, such as: to help people move, help with snow mowing, be out in the woods and moan at or help people with the pastry. A former Minister of Labour expressed strong concern that drug users were going around the forest with axe. I wonder if the representative Lundtigen shares that scepticism, for example. are to be put into action by helping with the maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2122	I do not share any concern that you should have an activity obligation – on the contrary. First of all, it's up to each municipality. Furthermore, the activity obligation must be connected to proper work. One shall not help to move; one shall not help to beat snow; one shall not help to run with your daughter or yours; one shall do something that is proper. I have experience of that, as a prison officer, I've worked on this here. Getting prison birds to do proper work and be proud of it, it's the best way to do it, but then one won't help with yours and your daughter. No, you're going to do something of your own worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2129	The representative is self-employed. I am, too, and we have therefore put in some measures relating to pregnancy and childbirth that we do not get the government parties involved. But my question goes on something else: The representative is concerned about Nav, and that Nav now has to contribute and help as quickly as possible. The opposition parties have previously proposed the creation of a Nav ombudsman, which has not been rejected by the government, but the entire Stortinget has said that the government will come back with its own case on this matter. So my question is whether the Center Party might be willing to contribute to us actually getting a matter of Nav Ombudsman before the 2013 elections – according to the model of the patient representative – because that is actually quite important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2136	I'll be careful to answer that question, but to answer with a little smile: I think a Nav agent today would get quite a lot to do. So maybe it's the most important and the greatest need that we're positive to make sure Nav's employees might get fewer clients -- 'clients' might be the wrong word -- a few fewer people take responsibility for and thus do a better job, and get a better education and get a simpler system. I think that's probably the Central Party line, and I hope that's also the government line, in front of more agents. Agents are very good, but I don't think that's the main solution model.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2141	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2144	It is a pleasure for me to present the Christian People's Party's good alternative budget for the labour and social sector with a framework of 134 million. kr more than the government. We give priority to groups with difficulties in the labour market. We increase the level of intervention for people with disabilities by 5,000 places. Of these, 1 000 are entirely new — in addition to the government’s proposal — and 4 000 places are re-prioritized from the regular action posts. In this context, we also strengthen Nav's capacity for performance assessment and dissemination by 10.5 million. NOK 40 million. kr in order to maintain the tasks of the reconnaissance holdings. In addition, the Christian People's Party has several proposals relating to people with disabilities in the workplace. We want to make the system permanent, we strengthen the allocation of service dogs and various tools, we give the right to group 2 cars for people with any function, and we maintain the IT Funk project. Additional funds for several interpreters and the establishment of interpreting training are also included. We do not know enough about the reasons why the proportion of people with disabilities in working life has fallen in recent years. At least the government is unable to implement its own policies and does not achieve its own objectives in this area. The appeal proceedings have also increased considerably. Problems include lack of individual organisation, lack of technical equipment and facilities, difficulties in changing work tasks or adaptation of working time. Disability is also a reason why they are not called for an interview or for the interview to be withdrawn. But another reason that may be of great importance, in my view, is the very structure of action, which is unbridled and very regular, with so many different measures to have an overview, as more pointed out in the Committee's hearings, and which I have also mentioned here in the past. What's particularly surprised me is that we don't know much about what works. There is a need for review, evaluation, structural change and simplification in the intervention agency, and it is nice that I get positive feedback from several government teams saying that they also believe this is important. There is also a need for an increased commitment to poverty. The Christian People's Party has created its own poverty package with a number of measures. To name a few: new children’s allowances, increased social assistance rates, increased housing frameworks, increased disposable birth benefit and adoption. We define poverty in the same way now as before, and participation in activities and social contexts remains the biggest challenge for children in poor families. Not long ago – it was a few weeks ago – we heard a debate between Lysbakken and Dagrun Eriksen, where it was documented that some children are hungry in today’s Norway. Unfortunately, the government has stopped accounting for its efforts to combat poverty, and they don't talk much about it, but the reality is that it is increasing! Another matter that is important: today, parents of children who need 24 hours of supervision over more than two years, excluding care allowance and who are left to the municipal level, are unable to provide equivalent benefits. The working line must not prevent optimum and sensible arrangements for families with sick children. A child who is long-term ill, with a high level of care needs, and who may or may not be in kindergarten or school at all, needs mother and father – not strangers from the municipality’s auxiliaries. The result has been that parents become ill-appointed, and some have to move to a cheaper home. Here we need a rule change. We also have some other new proposals relating to prison inmates and release, as well as improvement in sick pay and care allowance for self-employed workers during pregnancy and childbirth, as I just mentioned. Finally, a little about integrating immigrants into the labour market: it is demanding, and structurally, there are many closures. In a very exciting article in Today's Business yesterday, it was said that Norwegian companies may need help to overcome their fear of alienation. Instead, ‘immigrants are pressed into job hunting in a variety of well-meaning measures’, it says. Eva Grinde points out that it may be with employers that we should take action, give them more and better tools so that they receive immigrants who need work. Going to action after action does not seem to be of great help. I hope the government will dare to think even more new thoughts than they have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2170	The Christian People's Party is a socially engaged party, and it has also been shown here by the representative, Mr. Davøy, with his contribution today. Many people remember the time before the government change in 2005. Well, we remember the cuts in the daily allowance for the unemployed. We see that the right parties are on the march again; they are proposing to cut off the cost side of sick pay, in daily allowances and – perhaps most inappropriate of all – in support of the single caregivers. Now, the right-wing parties are once again choosing to put a big tax cut first, whether it's inheritance tax or wealth tax, which will go to the absolute richest people in Norway. Where does the Christian People's Party's limit of propriety go in order to enter into any government cooperation with the right parties after the next elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2179	Thank you for the nice words in the introduction. There will be demanding negotiations if we are to join the government with the Right again. That's the last one, and it's going to be now too, but it's really not really scaring me that much. The background to this is my own experience of being the State Council of the Bondevik II Government, with the Right and Left, where the aid budget was the highest ever, at least in percent, and where we got through a family policy that was brilliant – the first family policy in our country, since there has been no family communication – and the smoking law, and not to mention the many times I took up the government and debated women in the boardroom, a matter I was so lucky to be brought before the Stortinget. It wasn't an easy thing to get through, but the jam we did too, so it's incredible what you can do when you're sitting around the table up there in the high block!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2184	Nor do I doubt the Christian People's Party's commitment to disadvantaged people. But that's why it's so important to know where the boundaries go for the Christian People's Party, for example. in the case of the proposals for cuts for the families with children who are most at risk of being in child poverty, namely the lone carers, but also in the case of the need-tested child allowance for people who are too sick to work and who have disability benefits. There will be many thousands of children – at least between forty and fifty thousand – who, in that case, with a pen stroke, will become poor. I've read a little bit in this alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, too, where they say that they want employment obligations for social assistance, but also that they cut money in the municipal sector when they do this. So in sum, the Christian People's Party is giving social help, less than the government is doing. How can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2191	It's not that hard, especially if we refer to this Åmli project. Among other things, there is an example of a very good measure that actually allows you to save money at the other end. There are calculations, and some of these calculations we have presented to the Ministry of Finance and received assessments of. To stand here in that case and talk about the direct boundaries of the Christian People's Party if we were to negotiate with someone about the government power – or for the part about changing government, as we want – I can't do on a standing foot. But when you read the Christian People's Party's alternative budget and the social budget, you'll see where we differ in some areas from the other parties that are in opposition. We're going to fight for our budget anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2198	The representative Laila Davøy said with a smile to the question of negotiations between the Right and the Christian People's Party when it came to economic security for the weak groups, that it does not really scare so much. That's what I thought was strongly said – with that smile. It's nice to smile, but Laila Davøy, as a former government councillor, has experience from the government conferences and knows that there is a shortage of money. She knows that here we are talking about schemes that cost a lot. We are now dealing with a budget of 360 billion. kr. This is not going to be a big change until you can save a lot of money. So my question is really: is there any more difficult negotiation case between the Christian People's Party and the Right than what we're talking about now? Or am I on a tour?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2204	I can recall back to the Central Party that the jams have also been in many difficult negotiations during the government period. The center party knows very well that being a small party can be very demanding in a government. I'm not so scared of the Right, maybe because I have experience. But I realize that the government parties are scared, because you're facing a situation where you can lose the election the next time, and that's scary. But the government parties are unable to frighten the Christian People's Party to be afraid of the Right – at least not me, with the experience I have from government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2214	I also want to talk about poor children. I actually want to start by quoting the Prime Minister, but I have to admit that it was a few years ago. Then he said, ‘There shall be no poverty in the richest country in the world. The Government will present a comprehensive plan to eradicate poverty in Norway.’ It was the government's declaration of accession on 19 October 2005. When the budget was presented this year – I'm a little uncertain about whether I can show it – the government made a show-off list called the press issue. There are all the press releases to show off the fine things you get in the budget. There is always a lot of government to do, at least when you have so much money. In that press booklet, the word ‘poorness’ is not mentioned in one word. The left began this period with a suggestion that we should have a hard time when it was about poverty, especially among children. No one has been interested in participating in this effort. The first Document 8 we delivered in this period went right on to it – poverty among children – with lots of suggestions and with the invitation to be on a hard time to lift that particular group. In our alternative budget, we give priority to over 2.3 billion. kr just to raise this group. We're increasing the minimum rate of social assistance by 20 pst. We have a big package on drugs, and very many of the kids who experience living in poor homes also experience that drug problems are part of it. We are expanding free core time in kindergarten, especially in areas with high levels of immigration, and we have a real boost in child protection, also with reorganization. But what we see really has a big impact on families with poor finances is that we also go in and differentiate prices on SFO, on child welfare and on kindergarten. And just to give an example: we've got the Ministry of Finance to figure out what a lonely mother with income of 300,000 kroner and two children – one in kindergarten and one in school – gets in relief with Left's suggestion, and she gets over $22,000 more to walk with. That means something. There are numbers that really matter. Differentiation of prices for public housing payments is really one of the things that gets lifted this group. The second thing that matters to the Left in our alternative state budget in this field is to bring all those outside the labour market into the labour market. Today we have many discussions about everyone inside, and their rights. For us, it is important to increase the rights also for those who are outside. So let's do that. by strengthening social rights for self-employed persons. That's exactly what the representative Lundteg spoke about that was important to do, and we do that in our alternative state budget. There is also a great deal of effort in terms of the universal design of construction – which the government had promised long ago – that I believe is important for the integration of both school students and people with disabilities into everyday life. We have 2,000 more permanent places of action and 100 more trainee places in the state of disabled people. We have an entire package in terms of disadvantaged people in the workplace and all those who are being left out today, and for the Left it will always be the most important thing to fight for all those who do not share in all of the benefits that we have inside, to have the opportunity to participate in them. I believe that the measures we have seen here, both permanent job placements, the fact that the state has trainees, especially in the case of young people with disabilities, and the universal design of public buildings, are quite important to prevent the exclusion that very many people feel in today's labour market. The main positions of the left in this field are visible through the financial position. We are not going to re-promote all our proposals today, since we are not represented in the Committee, so we are voting in favour of the position of the government parties, as a subsidiary vote on the basis of what we did in the Financial Committee. We have so many divergent proposals in this field that it could also be tempting to vote against, but for the sake of simplicity in the protocol, we choose to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2241	When I read the budget of the Left, I think it's quite extreme. As I see it, the fundamental values of welfare policy are being attacked, and large wedges are entering a decent and safe working life. The sick pay period is proposed to be reduced from 12 to 11 months, standard sick pay periods are introduced, and the Left investigates sick pay by 90 pst. coverage. The left has thus developed in the chamber a policy that has a major impact on the sickest and most marginalised in working life, without conferring with the parties to the agreement. It seems that the Left considers it completely worthless to involve the social partners in discussions on important policies relating to them. Can we expect the IA agreement, a successful cooperation between the NHO, the LO and the State, and the tripartite cooperation, to fall if the Left comes into the negotiating position on government power?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2248	I have to say that I am quite dismayed by the tone that the Workers' Party is putting on here. In fact, the left has gone for an extension of the IA Agreement, precisely because it is not only the trade-organised with the main agreement that should have those rights, but that it should apply to all. We will fight for the rights of workers in this country, they will all have, not only those who have paid their quota to the Workers' Party. We believe that we should have a labour law in this country that applies to everyone. It's kind of weird, it's actually kind of weird, that it's a good idea for the Workers' Party to say that this is a brutalization of working life. These are proposals that their own Prime Minister presented just a short time ago, and then the head of the LO said that it was a proposal that he should consider. Today there is a brutalization when the Left presents the same proposal in the Chamber. I think that the Workers' Party may be wise to turn down the volume button something in the criticism of others, and rather discuss the outsidership that we are fighting down with our budget option – because it is really about those who are outside the Norwegian labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2255	First to the term "dugnad": the representative Skei Grande often uses it, and now said that no one has been interested in being on duty. I have to say that such as the term ‘dewness’ is used here in the hall, it is a gross abuse. Dugnad is when individuals work free of charge for others. I don't understand that the word 'daught' has anything to do with the work in our hall, because here we are talking about the allocation of resources, here we are talking about political priorities. It's something completely different. Left wants to lift people who are out of the labour market within. Yes, that's commendable. Why, then, is it so important for today's Left management to work to weaken the interests of the trade union movement? One of the strongest trade unions that contributes to what the Left expresses here is Trade Unions. Does the Left want to strengthen the Trade Union or weaken the Trade Union, to get more people into the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2262	The left wants a strong trade union movement – a strong trade union movement with which to negotiate. We like the tripartite cooperation. We were actually the party that provided the basis for a lot of the arrangements that we're talking about here. It's actually the Left that provided the basis for a lot of the welfare arrangements that we're talking about here. But we also need to be able to develop them, and we need to do that in a dialogue. So to the definition of good. For me, hard work means that people do something unselfish together. That means we can also have political virtues. Political effort is about putting together, putting away the party book, sitting down and trying to agree on things. During the distribution message, we presented all the proposals we had made up until then in Stortinget, on two. That was 22 proposals. I'm not saying that everyone was very good and would lead to everyone voting for them, but what surprises me is that no one was at all willing to discuss them, neither when they were promoted as case number. 1 in this period, or when they were promoted as part of a roll call from the government. The political rift that's a good thing is that some people put away the party program and agree on something a little bit bigger than themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2269	I believe in the Left when they say that they want to include more people in the working life, but it's a little hard to understand that the proposals that the Left promotes are going to work like this. The cuts for the sick that the Left is promoting are not good for people who have health problems and who are struggling to keep the job, or who are struggling to get into work because they have health problems. Then I wonder if the Left has actually looked at the Swedish experience with, among other things. Nominal health messages and more of this system are proposed here, because there is an exclusion much harder than it is in Norway. The second is that the Left has also systematically opposed the main social dumping measures. After all, cleaners, drivers, building workers, service workers, all those who have the hard jobs and who are the worst paid, should actually be able to maintain pay and working conditions. This work life is getting tougher, and this package doesn't work together if we're going to get disadvantaged people into the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2278	We've looked at what's happened in Sweden, and we think that this works as a good norm to use. This does not mean that you should always follow it, but it means that you have some norms to use when treating medical messages. We're willing to look at new arrangements for how this works, and maybe we can also improve the systems we have. Our point of change is not about taking the long-term disease, it's actually about getting the long-term disease changes a little earlier. We're very much in favour of the IA agreement. We're in favour of the mechanisms that are there, and we think they should apply even more. We believe that when one has been ill for a long time, one should perhaps get into a system in which to consider whether one should be re-trained or perhaps try another career, instead of going back where one was. The left has been a lot to fight social dumping, but we've used other tools than what the government is doing. We have e.g. raised it with the minimum wage, because we think it would have been a very effective act to combat social dumping, especially for the group that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2287	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2291	Never have so many been employed in Norway as now, and unemployment is low. After a strong growth in employment last year, growth has now decreased somewhat. The 2013 national budget assumes that employment will grow by 1.3 pst. Next year. It is positive that we are still seeing older people in the workplace. Those who are over 60 years old work more than before. The sick leave is now the lowest we've seen since the IA agreement came into force. From 2001 to 2012, sick leave has decreased by 14 pst. At the same time, we see that the use of classified sick messages has increased a lot, and that is important. Activity is much better than passivity for most who are ill. If we had the same sick leave rate as in 2001, our health care expenses today would be 4.5 billion. kr higher. This shows very well that it pays to work systematically to reduce sick leave. In the international context, Norway has a high level of employment and low unemployment but at the same time a relatively high proportion receiving temporary and permanent social security benefits. We take good care of those who get sick in Norway. At the end of the third quarter of 2012, 310,000 persons received disability pension. The number of unearned pensioners has increased, among others: the ageing of the population. But the proportion of disability pensioners has fallen slightly in the last ten years. An increasing number of young people outside the labour market and the education system are of concern. At the same time, we have to have some soberness in this discussion. A small minority of those under 30 years of age receive health-related benefits — there is no explosion. There are now under 10,000 people under 30 years of age receiving a disability pension. It's equal to a fraction of 1.2 pst. If we look at the statistics ten years ago, it was kind of the same thing then. However, there is considerable reason to focus on young people under 30 years of age, as these potentially have many years ahead of them in the labour market. It is also important to focus on those with persistent low incomes. If we look at the number and proportion of social clients, it's been falling in the last ten years. But if we look at those who are on persistent low incomes, we have seen that the qualification programme has got a lot more out of work. There are about as many low incomes today as they were in 2005, but the composition of low income families has changed somewhat. There are fewer minimum pensioners, especially among women. But where we see an increase, it's in two groups: it's in child-rich immigrant families, and it's among single-parent families. That's why I'm very concerned about the cut that Karin Andersen is still focusing on in the case of lonely caregivers, but through the new transitional support we get a new solution where they qualify for work and get support for it. I'm also very concerned about reintroducing cash support for two-year-olds, because it's like this in the Norwegian system that if you have about one average wage, homecoming wife and three children, you almost automatically get on poverty statistics. As Trettebergstuen so strikingly says, if you have $600,000 in wages, your home wife and four children, you get poor, or the statistics of the poor. Then I believe it is important to focus on the measures that get women into work, the job balance and the qualification programme, but also on the measures that help young people to be active. For poverty in our time, for some people, it's like they're hungry, but for most kids, it's like they don't have anything to tell from vacation, they don't get to take part in leisure activities. That is why we are in favour of free cultural school hours, against which the Progress Party is opposed, for increasing the cultural school system, and for more child and youth activities that contribute to youth holidays and leisure activities coming from families with low incomes. This is a budget for those who do not enter the labour market. Work is the main response to poverty. The Government will maintain a high number of action places in 2013, especially targeted at those with reduced working capacity. This is why we are increasing action places for those with reduced working capacity by 500 places. We also propose a new and reinforced guarantee scheme for young people aged 20 to 24. They will have more adapted follow-up – not go on a course with those who are good adults, but get people in Nav to follow them up. The funds will go to own contact persons to work on the follow-up of young people at the main Nav offices and to get a much better device on the guarantee system. Then, in this budget, we propose several measures to strengthen the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. Let's do that, for example. through wage subsidies for those who want to employ people with disabilities, but also other measures. These include: on the car systems, as we are now doing, and that we are going to have work and education trips, that it will be a permanent and nationwide system. What matters to us is that resources are released in Nav to follow up those who are struggling. What we've been looking at lately is that in the case of those who are going to get benefits, it's going faster than before, that people are going to be more satisfied. But there's still a lot left. The number of users to follow up is reduced — it is important. But what might free up even more resources in Nav is that we're now starting Project 1, ICT in Nav. This allows you to gain insight into your own case and the procedure can go much faster. Those applying for an old age pension already have this possibility, but with more self-serviced solutions, we can free up resources to follow up those who are struggling, even better. It is important for the government in these times to work for an inclusive working life and fight social dumping. As mentioned in the Communication on Employment, the government presented many tables and statistics showing that we have a good and sound working life in Norway. Nevertheless, some industries are characterised by unprofessional activity and social dumping. That is why we are now working on a new action plan. The aim is to ensure a clean working life and good pay and working conditions for workers in Norway. In addition, this time we propose to increase the Labour Inspectorate's budget by 10 million. kr, so that the Labour Inspectorate can exercise better supervision. In addition, we need to increase the follow-up to the petroleum industries and propose that Ptil increase budgets by 20 million. kr. There have been some serious near-misses in the autumn, and it is important that the Petroleum Authority is given the means to exercise good oversight. Recently, some negative information has emerged on economic developments in Europe. If developments at international level are significantly weaker than previously envisaged by the government, we must expect that we can also notice this in Norway. We have unemployment, it's not obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2336	I record that the Council of State in its statement says that she is very satisfied with the qualification programme, and that this leads to more people coming out to work when they are done. Then I register that on Friday in the Address Paper, her State Secretary, Gina Lund, says that she is not satisfied with the fact that the numbers are too low and indicates that 64 pst. by those implementing the qualification programme will not be put into action. Here it is clear that the Secretary of State and the Council of State have slightly different opinions. At the same time, a Fafo report shows that there are as many social welfare beneficiaries now as when the qualification programme was launched. My question is, is the Council of State satisfied, or is she not satisfied, and does she share the concern of the Secretary of State? The second question concerns the transitional benefit: What are the activity requirements of the government for qualifying?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2345	To get into work if you're a single-parent, one is an action that contributes to activity, the qualification programme, because we know that there are different types of activities that get people out of work. For some it is basic skills, for others it is a question of gaining formal competence. But the requirement is that you're at least 50 pst. in an activity to get into work through this transitional benefit. I believe that it is a very good and targeted solution, and I am very concerned that the Progress Party will make the single-parent poorer, throw more into poverty, by weakening the transitional benefit. The qualification program works well, but it can get even better. What worries me is that some municipalities cut in the qualification program. I want to contribute to getting more places in the qualification program.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2352	It is important to focus on the need for more disabled people to take part in working life. The party of progress is running a programme of state-owned trainee settings, although we felt that this should also apply in other sectors. The great responsibility for this lies with the Ministry of Labour. I'm sure the increase in this group in this department is larger than it was in February this year. Then the answer from the then state council was that there might have been one added. How many disabled persons have been added to the department now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2359	According to AKU numbers, 15 pst. by workers in Norway have reduced their ability to function. Most people don't see it. Most people have an invisible disability. We don't count them, and I think that's right. On the other hand, those we count are people who state this by application – then we can count them. But for most people, disability is invisible, that we don't count them by employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2364	I would like to thank the Council of State for an article where there was a lot I agreed to, among other things. the point that it is important to use poverty statistics with some care. It was actually a point the opposition made a few years ago, that relative poverty statistics are relative, and it is important to use it as it is. But the theme of my question is tripartite cooperation. It's a collaboration that many people talk a lot about, but at the same time it requires cooperation that not everyone gets everything, but that everyone gets a little bit all the time. I record that all the large employers' organisations have charged the government at different times to weaken tripartite cooperation. I also registered that the YS – i.e. a large employee organisation – in the class struggle on 6 March this year believed that the government listened unilaterally to the LO. Does the Council of State take any self-criticism in the way in which the Department has managed tripartite cooperation, and will there be any changes in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2373	There will be no changes in tripartite cooperation, because it is very well-functioning cooperation that has produced great results, where we have concluded agreements with the social partners. It is such that in major political matters such as temporary employment, the government agrees with the YS, the UN, the Academics and the LO, and the Right and the Advance Party agree with the Working Party and the NHO, so something is about political differences. But I am busy working together and talking with everyone. It doesn't mean I always do as the NHO wills, but I'll always listen to their arguments in every case. Sometimes there is political disagreement – and then it is often the case in Norwegian policy that the Right agrees with the employer side, while we have a stronger tradition of agreeing with the employee organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2378	I have two questions. One is an easy yes/no question. The investigation from the Brofoss Committee is very important. The question is: is the government following up on the Storting before the big shot next year? The second question relates to the new tax-deduction scheme for large costs of disease that was introduced in the budget procedure last year. From the government it says that this deduction scheme should go to the same groups. In these days – and so far for a long time – I have received enquiries from many who say that they no longer get these deductions, and ask how this goes. I know there's a part of the financial position about it, but it's not the same groups that benefit from it anymore. What does the Council of State think about that? Will the government review this? It seems very skeptical, what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2387	As far as the special deduction is concerned, this is a question that we are discussing with the organisations of disabled people. It's the reconstruction of homes that have been prioritised now, and dental care. But this was the case with the special deduction that it gave the most money to those who had the highest income. We're going to phase this out over several years now, and we're going to discuss with the organizations what we're going to do in the budget for next year. As far as the Brofoss range is concerned, we've already begun to follow it up. The methods have now been implemented through new pilot schemes and results-based funding is already in place. We will follow this up on an ongoing basis, and report to Stortinget en route.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2394	I've grown up in a home with a father who was driving something called a "snake team" in Trøndelag. That means he had three-four carpenters with whom he worked. I also grew up learning a few words, when I was six years old, which really six-year-olds should not learn, the words ‘smart businessman’. Because my father had a heart attack then, and it was serious about the world that we didn't have very good advice anymore – because my father was a seafaring businessman. Why is it like moving sick pay by 0.03 pst? Is a fury, but not to fight for seafaring business, it's not that dangerous?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2402	This government has improved the situation for the self-employed. By removing a number of requirements, we have made it easier to start business. In addition, we have introduced the possibility of a birth grant for self-employed women – it is about many women who now dare to start their own business, precisely because they receive birth benefit. We should go further with that, considering proposals that have come about the possibility of getting money to be home with a sick child even when you are a self-employed person. So we work systematically for better relationships for the self-employed – but the Left's proposal to cut the sick pay is not something we put ourselves behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2409	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2412	Norwegian labour will evolve in a completely different direction if the country receives a Right Party government after the 2013 elections. As you can see, the budgetary procedure for the year is quite elucidating. It is not that the parties agree in total, but in some cases several proposals and committee comments point in a particular direction: to weaken the influence of employee organisations on the labour market. Not enough for the Right and Advance Party to change the Labour Environment Act and abolish several of the most effective measures in the fight against social dumping — now they are also attacking negotiated rights. The proposal of the right and the left to introduce norms of sick periods and the fundamental criticism of the AFP scheme by the Progress Party is in line with the tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life. In addition, when the Progress Party intends to introduce market interest rates on government employees’ own pension funds loans, it shows that the party does not have any particular respect for a negotiated agreement either. These are the new ideas of the Right and Advance Party – or rather old ideas. What is new with normal medical periods, or a return of the AFP scheme to its original form? To the extent that it's new, it's old news. So far, few have taken seriously the pension policy of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has signed up for the longest time from the pension agreement, and the Right has responded to rejecting the Progress Party's pension solutions. Thus, of course, it is not said that the party is without influence in this field in any future government, and a government cooperation. As we have heard today, the Progress Party can find it difficult to live with the current pension system, and more explicitly the AFP scheme. It is worth noting that the Progress Party believes that the AFP scheme violates the actual intentions of the scheme, and the party considers it deeply unfair that the State contributes to a pension scheme negotiated by the social partners as long as 700000 workers do not come under the AFP scheme. The AFP scheme is linked to the organised working life, where enterprises and employees also bear the costs of the scheme. But what falls heavily on the chest is that we all contribute to the AFP scheme above the tax bill. We who are for an organized working life do not have such concerns. In the committee’s configuration, the Progress Party uses harsh words and states quite clearly that they distance themselves from a policy in which the State is to subsidise pensions to some selected persons, so that they have a ‘gold-edged’ early retirement scheme. In the case of the maritime pension scheme, the lot does not have the same infections, where the community is likely to also contribute to the tax return. But it can be because of a forgetfulness. I assume without a doubt that the Advance Party cannot be part of a government that is leading a policy they are taking a great distance from. Thus, the AFP scheme is put into play under a blue-blue government and in such negotiations after any election election in 2013. In other words, there is every reason to take the pension policy of the Progress Party seriously. Not only because it creates uncertainty about an important part of the pension system, but because it represents a clear breach of tripartite cooperation, i.e. a cooperation that is behind all major reforms in Norwegian working life, including the pension scheme and the underprivileged reform. It is simply not possible to imagine fruitful cooperation between employers, employee organisations and authorities when the authorities will not contribute, nor will they do anything but dictate both the premises and the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2427	It is good to get the opportunity to talk again about the Progress Party's policies when it comes to working life. The workplace already starts when we decide which education to take – and then we hope that this path will be flat and easy to go on. For one know that this is not of course too many young people today, that the road is as flat and as good as one had wanted. Many people already have an experience bank that does not give the best return, but simply a loss that results in the educational cycle being interrupted, or in the worst case, never getting back into this path again. The young become drop-outs with more contact with Nav at both good and bad. And for some it results in mental illness and in the long run a disability with a future work-related door. The progress game will never give up on the young and indicates that the group of young people under the age of 30 still has an increase. Therefore, the Progress Party wants one to install a bigger resource for this group. They need to get help quickly – and a help that is aimed at the individual. At the same time, we want more action areas, closer follow-up and no waiting time between actions. With this focus, a decrease in the number of disabled people and more working people will result in a reduction in the amount of social benefits paid permanently. For those who are lucky enough to have good health and who are in work, we need to do everything we can to keep them there and recruit new ones at the same time. Here's a big challenge. When one knows that society will need almost 30,000 nurses and the double when it comes to other health professionals by 2030, it's a long way from being able to say it's going to be all right. The Progress Party has supported the project involuntary part-time every year. While it is positive that the number of people working part-time involuntarily is falling, the concern for the voluntary part-time workers should be equally noted — if not greater, for more than 70 pst. part-time workers say that they do this for their own health, everyday life and family. There is still a part to it that has focus and not least an incentive to try more to work in a full position than in a reduced position. And society needs more in full. The sickness absence has been lowered, and it is positive. The IA agreement has led to a reduction in the absenteeism rate. Here must be a show of all, but it is worth noting that the private are actually better than the public – and then the municipal sector. There is still a sick leave of 7 pst. in municipal administration. Only by reducing sick leave in the municipal sector by 1 pst. from 7 pst. to 6 pst. gets a saving of nearly NOK 1 billion. Therefore, it is important that a continued focus on sick leave. And when one knows that the sale of antidepressants increases and sick leave and disability pensions due to e.g. Mental diagnosis increases, although different research suggests that we are actually not more mentally ill now than before, so at least one knows which area one needs to focus on in the future. The progress party wants an honest health absence statistics. That is why we have proposed our own sick leave section to deal with grief or life crisis. One is not sick, but may need a time-out and not least to get the right help when it's not at work. As several lizards have said, the system is actually pushing us to diagnose. Is that how it should be? Progress party doesn't mean it. We want honest statistics and not least proper treatment based on your health and life situation. The world of work in the future needs everyone. Therefore, the Progress Party would like to avoid discriminating against older workers from the labour market. There are several others from the other party that have said something about it, but lack of action from the red-green side makes it appear in the media. At the end of the stage of progress, older workers will not be taken seriously, based on knowledge and experience, and – not least – will be given priority over younger workers. There are a lot of myths that get spun around this theme, but without anything to hold. The only small thing I can find is that the elderly added are somewhat less willing to participate in training and career development activities. But there are many younger ones who are too. Job motivation, job involvement and creativity actually increase with age. Furthermore, having several age groups in an organisation is the best basis for having a good organisation. Therefore, organisations with an ageing mixed workforce should take age discrimination particularly seriously regardless of whether it is the elderly or the younger who experience it. Cross-age interactions must be indebted to our society. Therefore, the Progress Party also wants to focus on having older people or seniors in the workplace – not least after they have reached the age of 70. That is why the Progress Party has once again submitted a proposal on this which we hope we will receive support for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2455	From a perspective, we see that we are doing well in Norway. We have high employment, good wage growth and – for most people – a good and safe working life. For most people, the workplace is not just a place to earn income. There's also a social arena that means a lot. But unfortunately, too many people are still outside. And it's especially in one group that many people are outside: people with disabilities. Disability does not always mean reduced working capacity. With a little organisation, many more in this group could be at work — with all this entailing higher income, stronger social networking for the individual and lower social security costs for the country. Nevertheless, there are still more than 80,000 in this group out of the labour force involuntarily. The employment rate is low – and falling. It's not just the percentage that falls. Also in absolute numbers we've seen a decline in recent years. Since 2008, the proportion has fallen by almost five percentage points. There are about 40,000 fewer disabled people in the labour market now than they were a few years ago. And worst of all, development has accelerated in the last year, despite the fact that the fall in employment has stopped for the rest of the population and despite the government's employment strategy. In this room about a year ago – about the day – I did something so separate as boasting of the government. Honourable to the one who should, I said, because the government had finally raised this issue by presenting an action plan, but at the same time I warned that the government put forward was too small, too late and that the plan was too few, mainly those under 30. Unfortunately, the employment figures seem to have given me the right. In the figures there is no effect to trace the action plan. There are also no significant improvements in this year's budget. It is quite eloquent that the point that the government parties most often point out in this budget and this matter is 30 million. NOK to help young people under 30 years of age at work. That's good and good – for all things. But it's a twelve-thousandth of the budget – in other words, it's not a very impressive effort. This is a status quo budget, and the disabled who want to go to work cannot live with the status quo. They need new ideas and better solutions – not four more years with the same old policy. But there is one exception: the system of labour and education travel that the government is now making permanent. That's good. However, they make it permanent after they vote in this Chamber year after year. And not enough with that: they pay for it by taking the money from people with high disease costs that have so far been able to deduct these expenses from the tax. Many of these have been able to work because of this arrangement. So the government takes one hand and gives it to the other. At the same time, you can think of all of them as being properly organised, such as: journeys of work and education, had been able to enter the labour market during the years that have passed. It has taken this government seven years to implement this scheme. What does it say about the executive power of the sitting government? There is a lot that needs to be done, and we realize that everything cannot be done overnight. Pen strokes have been scraped. But the right will take some important, first step. In our budget, this represents a total of well over 100 million people with disabilities. Compared to the government's proposals. We want to make the functional assistant permanent and strengthen it by 30 million. Half-yearly kr, we will continue the deduction of large disease costs at the level of the year, we will raise the age limit for recreational services from 1 July, and we want disabled people to receive a green card – a reinforced and unbureaucratic scheme with an organisation grant. The Right Budget should be noted by the organisations of disabled persons and those with disabilities in Norway. We take this seriously and don't let this disappear in quantity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2472	The Labour Party has ambitions for people in Norway and for Norway as a country. We have ambitions for the world through aid policy, peace and reconciliation. The Labour Party has ambitions to get more people to work, and to create a working life with room for all employees adapted to a life cycle from youth to old age. Economic policy is predictable. We'll grab it when it snaps. The action packages in 2009 ensured Norwegian jobs. Industrial policy has created 350 000 more jobs. Fixed and not temporary, such as the Right and the Advance Party will have more of them. Greater temporaryity will lead to less predictability, shorter and random links with the labour market, less responsibilities and opportunities to develop jobs. The signals that they will also weaken the central power of trade unions show contours of old right-wing policies. The Right Party and the Advance Party create unsafe working days for vulnerable groups. anchoring the equivalency of the parties in tripartite cooperation is our answer to providing security for employees, for – unlike the Right Mayor of Bergen – we are not against everything that LO is for. Redistributing and not commercialising is our policy for equal access to health and education wherever you live and how much money you have. We want a progressive tax policy, which ensures that the level of taxation is fair and contributes to the fact that the differences between people's incomes are not unreasonable. It is they with the lowest incomes and who have the greatest challenges in life, who are losing on such policies. The right-hand and front-hand parts cut, among other things in the sick pay area to accommodate an unsolvable tax policy with lower redistribution targets. We agree with the leader of the Union, who in today's business in October fears well-being with the Right. Kindergarten is one of the most important welfare measures in today’s society. In Kristiansand there is now a debate on these, and also in Oslo. The majority of the parties to the right and progress will build public owned kindergartens to finance cuts in property taxes. Parents are deprived of freedom of choice. ‘It is discriminatory for private actors to open large kindergartens, while municipal, traditional kindergartens are being closed down. A large proportion of the population are excluded from the kindergarten market,” says a spokesman for the parents of the fatherland friend on 4 December. In the municipalities where the Right Party and the Advance Party rule, we see old politics. Publicly owned kindergartens are down-prioritised, and it is one of the most important welfare and gender equality measures we have. The sickest and poorest pay the bill for cuts in sick pay schemes, such as standard health care periods, variations in transition rates and the introduction of automatic activity for the most vulnerable young people on Nav, who have many and complex challenges. The answer they get from the Right and Advance Party is: more automatic, thank you! Yes, they have certainly started the change towards another society, where individual considerations are reflected in welfare policy and highlighted in tax policy. Those with resources are compensated for their individual needs. They can choose from market-based offers in school, hospitals and care. But if you're a social client or chronically ill, you're going into the automation, which is going to be state-directed. The same automation remains in their policies in the field of health care. At the chamber they have designed this without consulting the parties. Prior to the conclusion of the IA agreement, it was discussed whether normal medical periods should be part of the agreement. The parties chose not to include it because the highest proportion of sick messages was associated with persons with muscle and skeletal disorders and mild mental illness. These have only one thing in common: the diseases have very individual causes, processes and solutions. But also here the Right says, now along with the Left: More automatic, thank you! I believe that the direction we are now taking Norway is good. That doesn't mean we don't have challenges. The Labour Party will find good solutions to work against social dumping to include more people in the labour market and to maintain good and living tripartite cooperation. In all these areas, we have put forward good measures in this budget. We do not want solutions that go wrong or that put everyone in the same boat. The opposition proposes a welfare policy launched at the chamber. We will develop welfare, labour and industrial policies in cooperation with those involved. We want a better redistribution and a more fine-masked well-being network than the Right, Left and Advance Party add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2493	The Progress Party wants to give everyone the opportunity to live independently, take education and participate in the labour market and at different social arenas based on their own assumptions. We will prevent sickness and exclusion from working life and the social community by strengthening areas in the budget that allow more people to get into work or get better in their everyday lives. In the long term, this is socio-economically profitable, giving more people a meaningful life, and it contributes to the fulfilment of UN human rights for people with disabilities. Finally, after the ratification by well over 100 countries of the UN Convention, the Grand Duchy of New Year will deal with ratification. The strengthening of the rights of people with disabilities should also be reflected in this budget. Unfortunately, it doesn't. Universal design is not followed up in terms of school and old building masses, and it may seem unrealistic to expect the vision of a universally designed society to be achieved by 2025 unless the state takes greater financial responsibility. The Progress Party has therefore made a proposal asking the government, after the evaluation of key areas of action is available in spring 2013, to come up with a progress plan which also includes the economic conditions to meet the plan. Good transport systems are often a prerequisite for disabled people to live an active and more social life. It is therefore positive that the government is now in favour of making work and education trips a permanent arrangement, but the Progress Party believes that the need is not met by the government's commitment, and we have strengthened the budget line by 12.6 million. kr. Another small highlight of the government's budget is that they are now meeting the proposals of the representatives of the Progress Party last year to change the criteria for the allocation of vans. The Social Security Scheme is a budgetary issue, said former State Council Bjurstrom repeatedly, and once again we see examples of how the government redistributes between those who have special needs, instead of granting fresh funds. However, the Progress Party is strongly critical of the fact that increased expenditure on Group 2 cars is to be covered by cutting the amount of subsidies to other social security vehicles and therefore strengthens the budget line by 50 million. kr, both to increase the amount of the subsidy for Group 1 cars and to increase the number of Group 2 cars. The annual budgetary audits have indicated that read and secretarial and functional assistance mechanisms should be strengthened. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is listening to what appears at the hearings, and we have also strengthened these budget lines. Basic and auxiliary benefits do not follow wage developments, as the Progress Party has pointed out in recent years. In addition, there is reason to expect an increased search for aid from these items now that the government is liquidating the scheme of tax credit for high costs of sickness. Therefore, both of these items are strengthened by 24 million. kr on each entry. I listened to the article on the Liv Signe Navarsete in the previous debate, where she stressed that older people should be given the opportunity to live in their own homes any longer. But what does the government do to facilitate it? Last year, significant cuts have been made in the facility, which has resulted in many people no longer acquiring tools from which they may benefit or which prevent harm, such as: supporting handle attached to the wall. The Progress Party believes that by providing good access to resources, we can help more people to live independently in their own homes, and we have therefore strengthened the budget line by 10 million. kr to everyday aids. A new facility was being consulted and received massive criticism. After that it's been strangely quiet. However, there are nevertheless changes that indicate a gradual weakening of the facilities and a shift to sectoral responsibility. The Progress Party is opposed to transferring responsibility for treatment aids to health businesses, as proposed by the Government in the budget of the year. We believe that access to resources should be financed by public funding and not depend on local priorities, local economy or the budget framework of health enterprises. It is both disappointing and incomprehensible that, despite the fact that all parties have proposed to remove the 26-year rule for training, activation and stimulation aids, the government has not made any changes to the year's budget. It is a problem when disabled people over the age of 26 have to pay all training aids and training equipment themselves. It is purely a matter of age discrimination and is not justified by professional reasons. The matter has been raised by the associations and by individuals, and it was also taken up by employees at Sunnaa's hospital when I visited there in the summer. In the case of service dogs, there is a recurring question in each budget. Those who today are so lucky to have service dogs have been promised on different occasions by politicians from all the parties here in the hall, that they will get replacement dogs when the dog gets too old. It does not follow up the government, but the Progress Party has followed up. I will come back to other things in my next post, when the speaking time here was a little too short!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2514	‘Working line’ is the heading of the year’s budget. All the different areas of the budget form part of the same objective, for example: the health budget, which was discussed here earlier today, provides room for more treatment. All the parts of the big puzzle are carefully cut to fit into the big picture. We stand for safe welfare solutions, and we want more people working and more people working longer. Do your duty and demand your right – we don't get good joint solutions if not everyone contributes what they can. Unemployment is low, employment is high, but that's not enough for us, because there are some groups that still stand too far away from work. A new and strengthened youth guarantee is an example of increasing demands and strengthening opportunities. Youth shall not go without work or education. They shall be followed up and followed up quickly – with requirements and measures. We're expanding the VTA and separating it into our own mail. It's a bit of a tedious grip, a technical solution that's done in this room, but it's actually very important, because measures fluctuate as time goes by, but VTA is work and it's not going to swing with the time off. We continue and strengthen the job strategy, and I am pleased that several representatives have mentioned that we need to take action faster, and they need to be more effective. We started last year, but it takes some time before we get the big effects of it, but we agree: we have to do more of this – and more effectively. That is why we have added 400 additional areas of action for disabled people who also have a reduced working capacity. The strategy focuses on building up the barriers that have so far been identified. But it's not a very simple problem, mainly because people with disabilities are not particularly alike. Developmentally impaired, visually impaired, hearing-impaired and persons with reduced mobility meet a wide range of barriers. This is why the strategy contains a set of different instruments aimed at individuals and businesses and with additional resources for Nav. As several have mentioned, we make work and education trips permanent and double the allocation so that more can be covered by the scheme. It's a point to get to work if you're going to be at work. We also start projects in the state agencies and have selected the Labour Inspectorate and the State Pension Fund to be preparatory bodies to include more people with disabilities in the workplace. The municipal sector is also included, and the KS, together with the Ministry of Labour, has selected the municipalities of Sandnes, Bergen, Sarpsborg and Lindesnes, so that we can learn from how they include, and build up even more barriers and spread knowledge to individuals, to employers and to the instrumentation, so that we do it more effectively in the next round. But I have to allow myself to be a little bit curious today. I have to ask questions about how the Progress Party is making its budgets. In order to do a little bit more of everything, they need money, and there's a problem that many of us have known about. kr to find money for their bets, bets that I in many ways actually think are good. But what is realism in this cut? They specify that no one should be cut in performance and that no one should lose performance. Okay, I'll take the party and I'll believe them. But that means that relatively many do not come under the scheme in 2013. Because people come a little bit gradually into the scheme -- some come into the scheme in January, some come into the scheme in December -- it's so that the $12,000 that is the amount that it actually represents, $12,101, to be absolutely precise, we have to avoid 24 000 coming into the disability scheme next year in order to achieve the target of $2,368 billion. kr. It's not realistic. This means that two thirds of those today who are expected to be judged for disability next year are not going to be so – they are going to be completely healthy and get out in 100 pst. job, because you have at the same time cut the sick pay scheme, so they can't go there. And it's actually only 1,465 people who can fit in with the redundancy pay scheme – there's an increase of 310 million. kr. That's not going to work out. That's why this has something to do with old-fashioned or something like that. But we have a saying here in the country that it is stupid to sell the skin before the bear is shot, so I think we're waiting a little bit to spend the money, and then we can put the measures in place on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2533	The work on equality and discrimination is about safeguarding human rights. It's about respect and self-respect, about social values, about equality and about equal opportunities for all. No one should be discriminated against. In SV we are proud that the government we are part of has introduced the Discrimination and Accessibility Act. It's a milestone. It provides the essential protection of discrimination against persons with disabilities. Organising a universally designed society, a democratic community, is to make society equal and more effective. All people benefit from such a society — many more than those directly affected here and now. Norway was one of the first countries to sign the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It happened in March 2007. The county officials have been given new posts and will be ready to handle defence cases from July 2013. That is when it comes to ratifying the UN Convention. The big deal's commitment to this convention I'm very happy to see. The organisations for the disabled do a very important job for their members and as social actors. Equal opportunities are important and the voluntary involvement can never be replaced by a public or commercial system. It is gratifying that many different organisations for disabled people can be supported by the grant scheme that we have. In 2002, 107 received organisational support. In 2011, this had increased to 127. At the same time, there is a need to look at how the legislation works and how it can be better and fairer. The Ministry is working on the matter in close dialogue with the organisations. Organisations want a broad and thorough process. I think it is important to spend a good amount of time on this, so that all views are evaluated. A new legislation will only be introduced from 2014. A major and important commitment to equal opportunities for people with disabilities is the Government’s Universal Design Action Plan and increased accessibility. This is a collaboration between 15 departments. The original 2009 plan described 60 measures. Many of these have been implemented or are being implemented. In addition, many new ones have emerged. More than 200 actions are now registered within the priority areas of the plan, which are outreach/planning, buildings, transport and ICT. There is a very positive development in all the priority areas. Then there has been a call for a regulation on ICT for the Discrimination and Accessibility Act. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and the Church has now sent the regulation to the hearing. At the same time, the Directorate for Management and ICT is now preparing for the supervisory and information tasks they will receive when the regulation enters into force. It facilitates this in 2013. In 2013, we will also present our own report on the living conditions of people with disabilities. Although in many areas we have gained more freedom and more equivalency for people with developmental disabilities, we also see trends that do not go in the right direction. This concerns housing, work and leisure. The main themes of this paper are legal certainty, housing, work, leisure and health. I would also like to say a little bit about child poverty. Child poverty in Norway is not primarily about the lack of food for children, but there are a number of young people who actually do. At the same time, it's about kids missing a lot of other things that are as important as food, in order to be able to live a good life. That's why that discussion is a little infertile, I think. This could be done, for example, by: is about the money to be with where other children are at leisure, it's about access to social communities and thus the ability to make friends and develop like other children. It may be that they have parents who have neither profits nor health to provide good and close care, for example: due to economic difficulties and excessive income. It can be about the feeling of being – or actually being – different. For a child, this is far worse than for example. not to have hot food every day. I work from my department along several lines, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t strengthening child protection in interaction and cooperation with others who can make a difference in the lives of children. It's only at early and comprehensive effort that we can really reverse that development. to ensure that children are heard and that we have respect for the children. Social services, health services, child protection and school must talk to the children – really! For example, hub must be: include children’s situation in their assessments, something else that is totally unacceptable. to achieve rapid settlement and better integration from the start. The women's perspective is very important, and it needs to be clearer in our systems. Job opportunities – outreach work aimed at home mothers who have unfortunately been home for too long with cash support. Work is the key to freedom of choice. to look at how we can reach those families that are currently only entitled to one-off social benefits. We'll call about the transition aid and the child's back. I'm recording the debate that's been going on today, and I don't think it's worth taking 1 billion. kr from these poor children's families to pretend to be fined on their situation by spreading it thinly elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2583	Given that the Minister for Children spent so much time on child poverty in his post, I would like to ask questions about it. If you read today's Evening Post, you'll see, among other things, that the Minister of Labour has stopped talking about poverty. She admits that you don't talk much about it anymore. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality is very concerned that it is necessary to ensure that poor children have the same opportunities as other children to participate in activities. It says in the Soria Moria Declaration that the government will ‘further develop cooperation with and increase support to user organisations and other non-governmental organisations that make a major effort for the welfare community’. This increase has barely been on the level of the price increase in the last four years — there has been an increase of 3 pst. Is this an increase that the Council of State is satisfied with, or does she think that teams and associations should be supported much more so that a good offer could be made to all children – as proposed by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2599	Some non-governmental organisations could certainly benefit from higher amounts, while other organisations – as SV sees it – might have received less money. It's a continuous discussion that you have to take internally. In this area, there are very many organisations that are doing a very important job that complements the work done in the public sector. In the case of child poverty, it is primarily about redistributing resources and coordinating efforts — taking early action. We have to understand more of what we're doing, because we have to focus more of our efforts on the mothers. Then, among other things, we work. against non-governmental organisations – women’s organisations – in the field of migration. Today they are supported by us for, among other things, working out for women, so that they can get into the workplace. What at least does not help is to take the transitional benefit from the women who are now struggling – we are going to have poor children to a much greater extent than today. There will be about 17 000 more poor children in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2606	The IT function research programme has not been continued in the government's draft budget. Parts of the allocation are included, but are distributed for all wins. Right, sorry about that. IT function has contributed to important screening and research work for the disabled and should continue, not least when we are about to ratify the UN Convention. The evaluation report for the project presented earlier this year shows that the Research Council does not wish to continue the IT funk programme in its current form. However, in a note to the Labour and Social Committee of 15 November 2012, the Research Council says that they do not want research in this area to be reduced. The IT function has been the User Forum and the evaluation report recommends that the competence of this User Forum be further developed and systematically used. How will the State Council follow up the evaluation report for IT work, and how will the State Council ensure that the focus on disabled people can continue in the Research Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2619	I want to thank you for the question. We're going to make sure that this work continues. It is true – as the representative Graham points out – that this system was evaluated and that the Research Council did not want it to continue in its present form. Then we don't spread the funds for all wins, but we focus them primarily on the Delta Center, which is located in Bufdir – this because we want to see more of the work done in this field, in the context. Then we've also decided to maintain User Forum. It's important to us. I have noted the comments of the majority – the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – which ask us to follow closely the work after the reorganisation and ensure that the efforts in this area are not impaired. I can promise that we'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2626	The Government’s Universal Design Action Plan was a theme of the Council of State, and the Action Plan for increased accessibility was presented in 2009. It supports the vision that Norway should be universally designed by 2025. Priority areas of this plan include, inter alia: construction and outdoor areas. At the same time, we can read the following in the 2013 budget papers of the year: ‘The premises of the labour and welfare management shall ensure accessibility for all user groups, and particular attention shall be paid to disabled people. Many of the counties now state that all NAV offices in the county are universally designed. The same applies to all special units in the Employment and Welfare Act. Further action is still needed in other countries. Some offices will only be fully universally designed by extensive refurbishment of existing premises or by establishment in new premises.’ When does the Council of State think that all Nav offices should be accessible to people with disabilities? I have not found any ambitions about this in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2636	It's hard for me to answer that question. It should in itself be addressed to the Minister of Labour, who is responsible for the Nav offices. But my starting point is that we're going to be able to make all of these buildings universally available as soon as possible. However, it is clear that Nav offices are particularly important, because they will assist people with disabilities, for example. to get to work. – So it says sail. But what we're going to do is put forward a progress plan, as requested by the Stortinget. It's going to make sure that we can reach that vision that everyone agrees on, that we're going to have a universally designed society by 2025. It's about equality, about equivalency, about equal opportunities, and it's about human rights. Obviously, it's also about work and participation, so this is very important. Fortunately, many people have already done a good job in this area, so the picture is not black. I'm optimistic that we're going to be able to get more progress in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2643	I have two questions. The first is also here a yes/ no question – if possible. It is on the news of living conditions for the mentally retarded. We were many who worked for a few years before there was a majority in Stortingen for this work and what was going to happen. I think it's very good, not least in terms of housing and housing development we've seen in recent years, in terms of shortages of regular jobs and some other conditions related to living conditions. So the question is whether that message is planned to come before the election. The second question is poverty, on which the Council of State was involved. The average age of firstborn is approaching today 30 years, if it has not exceeded it — at least it is very high. Many people justify having children so late that they can't afford them. Housing is expensive, they have to be established – students say they can't afford to have children. The Christian People's Party has put in a double of one-off support. What I'm asking about is whether SV sees it as a good measure, and whether SV could also think of it as a party to consider this afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2654	The answer to the first question is yes. The plan is to submit this message before the option, that is, before the summer. With regard to the answer to the second question, it is tempting to refer to the evening post – probably tomorrow – but I can prejudge that interview by saying that from the SV we believe we have to deal with this now. We have to look at the proposal that came from the Skee Committee, which has looked at gender equality from a class perspective. There it becomes very clear that there is a need to do something about the one-time benefit. They propose a minimum amount of support, and it is also included in the SV's programme. There is a discussion on how, in addition to securing the children in the first year of life, we can ensure that these women can benefit from the measures we have for them to work. There is the transition benefit important – I would like to underline it. If you take it away, you're going to prevent a lot of these women from getting into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2661	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2666	Today’s debate is a little complacent in terms of the political divide, for it has as its starting point that the red-greens actually won the 2005 and 2009 elections, as opposed to the right, which, if they had won the election, would continue to give priority to tax cuts. Of course, the right parties make their alternative budgets based on what the government has provided. But the budgetary framework had become completely different from what we know today. In more or less creative budgets, we can actually see in which direction the different right parties will cut. It goes on sick pay, it goes on day-to-day pay for the unemployed and the transitional benefit for the lonely dependants. No one should be hit, it is said, but history has shown us that when the tax reliefs to the country's most prosperous are to be financed, it is the sick and unemployed who have to pay the bill. This is not just cut in government expenditure. This is about the security for all of us when we need it most. Most unpleasantly, you choose to send thousands of children of lonely dependants into poverty. It is about protecting children from poverty, while Mom or Dad qualify to enter the labour market. Unlike in Europe, we succeed in creating both growth and jobs. Together with a good working life and strong trade unions, it is our most important contribution to creating freedom for each of us. But then the most important protection against poverty is that people have decent systems that provide economic security when, for various reasons, they are not part of the labour market. It's always profitable to invest in people. That's what the government's budget is doing. By strengthening child protection, investing in New GIV, Job opportunities, job strategy for people with disabilities, enhanced youth action, a strengthened hub and action, there is even more opportunity to succeed in entering the labour market. This is how we build a stronger Norway — through working life, through work, by using the whole population.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2681	Speakers before today have talked about different labour market measures. I'd like to bring up one of them, that's the job. Since 2005, we have had a new opportunity for immigrants who are not linked to the labour market. The experience is quite good. The project is socio-economically profitable, but most importantly it has been for each of the young people, the home women and the social welfare beneficiaries who have come into work. A new chance turns into a job opportunity for the summer. The amount doubles by 30 million. Previously, job opportunities are directed towards domestic immigrant women. It is an important signal that equality in Norway is to apply to all. Job is the way out of poverty, for women themselves, their children and their families. Jobs and own funds are the main basis for gender equality in society and in the family. On the other hand, we're going to be careful to make immigrant women poor as a group. The researchers Daugstad and Sandnes in the SSB point out that the immigrant population is very complex. It consists not only of men and women from 213 different countries, but «here we find both industrious fathers, industrious ladies, frustrated wives and impossible cubs. It's illiterate and lawyers, city people and farmers. Talking about what immigrant women or men do or think therefore becomes as little striking as saying what all men or women do or mean.’ That's why it's not the job shine for everyone, but for those who need it the most. Half of immigrants in Norway are women. They come for reasons other than men, mostly through family reunification, where two out of three are women. The employment rate for family reunification is significantly lower than for migrant workers, 57 against 81 pst. It increases with increasing living time, but not for everyone. Fafo shows that only 30 pst. of Pakistani women who came to Norway before 1990 are in work. The SSB has demonstrated large differences in living conditions between migrants and women. Men are better. They have more work experience and education from their home country, are more employed in Norway, are better in Norwegian, do less housework, are less lonely and have more Norwegian friends. Last year the magazine of the drama wrote about ten immigrant women, under the title: "I have a dream." They went to the Nav course. Gül was 25 years old, from Turkey, had lived in Norway for six years. She'd rather work in an ambulance. She said, "The course has made me realize that my goal is possible." It is important – to have faith in itself. Aziz was 50 years old, had lived in Norway for 30 years. She said, "Now I only have one dream. [[...]] I want to get out of the kitchen and find a job." The job opportunities are for those like them – mostly for them, but also for us, because we really need that workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2700	«Facilities for all» was the title of the programme on which the right went to elections in 2009. For the Right, this is the basic ideology. Red-green politicians would like to think that the most important thing for the Right is to give Olav Thon less tax. It's not. Opportunities for everyone are that society cannot afford to let anyone fall outside. And opportunities for everyone are about people being different and having to be taken seriously like that: individuals with different abilities, assumptions and interests. From recent years of school research, we have gained a lot of knowledge. We know that the social background and level of education of parents are the most important factor for each student. That is, of course, unfair, because no one can choose their parents. But the most worrying thing we know is that the Norwegian Joint School, as the Workers' Party so beautifully calls it, is unable to even out these differences. On the contrary, the differences are increasing as the students complete primary school and begin secondary school. So that's when there's really going to be too many things going wrong. The keyword is non-response. Right is the batch that has always been concerned with results in school. Right was the first party that struck the alarm many years ago, when it turned out that almost 20 pst. students left primary school without knowledge and skills in order to survive later in life. Of course, it's about the same 20 pst. We now see falling away from higher education, but only now will the measures to prevent this come under the slogan New GIV. The new GIV is great, but the measures are too late, in a double sense. They only come now, after many years of debate on weak learning outcomes, and they come in the last six months of ten years of primary school. If there had previously been transparency about the results in school, if it had been politically correct to talk about differences in the past, and – not least – if it had previously been allowed to take the consequences, many students could have been saved from getting into statistics under the Labour and Social Committee, to put it that way. I'm going to say the following: where you try to cover up that differences exist, the differences will increase. For too long, it has been politically correct to pretend that everyone in Norway is equal and has the same opportunities. We have even become world champions of the "American Dream", according to the Prime Minister. It sounds great, but it's unfortunately an illusion. The truth is that many students are outlawed in a school where the differences are covered, where all seem to be the same and therefore have to be treated equally. When the Right wants specific measures for the weakest students early in school, it is called stigmatisation. When a red-green government does the same thing in the 10th grade, when it's really too late, it's called the New GIV. We also know that the skilled teacher is the most important factor in school. But those students who don't have parents who can set up with knowledge and help are no chance if the school sets up with teachers who are professionally weak, unskilled homeworkers, or a counselor who has no idea of the working life he is going to advise on. If you want to understand why many people are out of work, there's unfortunately a lot of the explanation in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2717	The bigger picture has previously debated the health and care budget, where I focus on public health policy and prevention. It is an old saying that says: The work nobles the man – and the woman too. Perhaps it is this saying that underlies the so-called work-life line in Norwegian policy. At least there is a clear hold to claim that work is related to human health. The question is, do you have to have good health to work or do you get good health from working? This question probably has more answers. Lars Grue from NOVA answers this in a chronicle in the Health Directorate's 2010 report on public health: ‘What we know, however, is that among people with disabilities there is a clear link between having good health and being at work.’ He refers to a comprehensive life-cycle survey of disabled people, which shows that the part that assesses own health as good is twice as large among those who are at work as among those who are not at work. He further writes: ‘Education is the single factor that may be most important to explain why some people with long-term disabilities are active and others are not.’ Therefore, it must be a goal that most disabled people are given solid education. It is important both for individuals and for the policy objectives set out in the line of work. So work is an important social health determinant because work provides income, social communities, structures in everyday life and too many meaningful activities. Then, too, prevention of disease and a clear public health policy can bring even more people to work. Today, we know that mental disorders along with musculoskeletal disorders are the main cause of disability in Norway. One in four of those who are unemployed suffer from mental illness, and the most worrying thing is that new unemployees with easier mental disorders are increasing, especially in the 20–29 age group. The positive thing is that both muscle and skeletal disorders and easier mental health problems are preventable. For example, measures to increase physical activity both within and outside the workplace can contribute to this. Alcohol is another important factor in this work. A study by the research centre IRIS in Stavanger points out that alcohol costs industry as much as 18 billion. SEK in sick leave every year. 30 pst. of short-term absence and 15 pst. is caused by long-term absence in alcohol. It is therefore very important to focus on prevention and to pursue an active public health policy, especially within mental disorders, muscle and skeletal disorders and psychosis. Otherwise, one will not be able to achieve the clear political objective we have of high participation in employment, low sick leave and a strong link to the working life of the vast majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2742	First I want to support the post of the representative Toppe, she had many important points. Then the representative Warloe was up and complained that the Right School would do better for students who are struggling. Then you have to cut the number of teacher positions, you have to have more exams and more private schools. So this prescription has been tried in Sweden, and the results are falling, while in Norway the results are rising. What happens at school is important, but then you have to do things right – not self-religious, but include. Then to the debate on the lonely carers. This is an estimated 17 000 children. The money is removed, and the opportunities to qualify for two years of safe income are also removed – that is what is stated in the Draft Budget of the Right and the Advance Party. But now in the debate they say that they don't eliminate these possibilities anyway, because these people are going to have benefits while qualifying. Then the money that the Right and Advance Party have saved on this cut is gone. It's this money that finances the majority of all the Progress Party and the Right do in the social field and in the field of people with disabilities. It's funded this way. At least you have to get in and be able to do the schemes that are proposed – and as they are – and not customs with figures, as the Progress Party and the Right do. In the case of these lonely caregivers, what is poverty doing to parents? Does it help with something good? No, we know that poverty causes people to lose faith in the future. People get sick and out of it. We also know that there is a huge problem for many parents who eventually need help from child protection, because having financial problems, not looking any way out of trouble and perhaps being a single parent, is incredibly demanding. It does not do anything positive for those families that the Right Party and the Advance Party will now eliminate the opportunities these families have to, for two years, safely qualify for work. This is incredibly important – an important system – and we look at those who do this, that they succeed. The progress party even goes so far that they want to remove the education aid and argue that they are doing well – they are doing just like others. There is evidence that single-parent families, especially where mother is a dependant, have two and a half to three times the risk of living in permanent poverty. Why on earth can these achievements not be at peace with the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2757	After I have signed up for another three-minute post, I will reply to Karin Andersen. Now what I want to focus on first is to include more people in the world of work. We hear Trettebergstien say we're on the right track, we're creating more jobs, and there's a need for increased labour. Are you on the right track when 37 000 people with disabilities are in working life? If you are on the right track, the proportion of people with developmental disabilities has gone from 30 pst. to 13 pst. in the last 10 years? Are you on the right track when the number of total sites from 2010 to 2013 is reduced from 78 200 to 70 700? Are you on the right track when you find that several action companies say that the work with assistance measure, which is one of the most important measures to succeed in the government's job strategy, is underfunded, and is it said that you cannot afford to carry it on? Are you on the right road? One can only take an example from Vadsø municipality, where a large intervention company is not now able to afford to maintain the work on assistance facilities. There should be things that also worried the Workers' Party, and not least the Council of State, that are concerned about including more. What will the Council of State do with that? Would she like to put in place more predictable financial frameworks for work with assistance, or should she let it scour and go? I expect, if you want to have overall thinking about a job strategy and include more, that you will also address the challenges facing people around the country in the various companies, and I recommend the Council of State to take a round and visit businesses from Finnmark to Kristiansand. Then she'll see that there are big differences in that area. In Rogaland, there are now stops at action sites. They have had a very good project to tackle young people who drop out to qualify them through labour market enterprises. It's great, and it's applauded by the Progress Party. What is the answer from the Council of State? Well, they're too high on the resource base, that is, they're too good and get more than what they planned to get out of work faster or back to the study! They're too good in Rogaland, so you have to deal with smaller frames. That's why the Progress Party wants to strengthen this with 7,300 places, and we want more people to get work and education trips – we are strengthening with 90 new ones. There, the government will have to pay tribute so that, after seven years, that scheme can now be transformed from a pilot scheme to a permanent scheme. I also want to do the same with functional assistance, which has been a testing scheme for ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2772	Both the SV and the Workers' Party have been quite sharp in the criticism of the Right and the Advance Party in terms of cuts in the transitional aid. I have to say I'm somewhat surprised. Two years ago, the Progress Party proposed to reduce the ordinary time with transitional aid to one year – to require activity after one year. And we're actually going to do the same thing now. On page 54, for those who have read the comments, which I expect everyone in the committee has made up to several times, there are three points as an exception. It is that you can have the period extended if you are in needed education, if you become a single caregiver before the age of 18 when, or if your child is particularly in need of supervision because of disability, illness or major social problems. So it's taken into account the things that have been strongly criticised. The lots have acquired proceeds and used them in their budget space. So there's no more hokus than that. It is also the case that the Progress Party believes that it offers the best financial opportunities if lonely dependants get out of work as quickly as possible. The transitional benefit now does not apply only to parents who have newborn babies — one- and two-year-olds. The scheme is also for those who have bigger children when they leave each other. Today, it is not uncommon for parents to choose to live at different addresses. About 50 pst. and we live in a society with a standard of living based on the fact that both sexes are at work. In an equal society, both parents have responsibility for their own children, even if they do not choose to live together. That responsibility is not to be taken away by the authorities. The fact that, as Karin Andersen said, there is an overweight of lonely dependants living in permanent poverty comes from living on passive social security schemes. It is largely the families who live on in poverty, and it is often in those families that children have problems, and that social security is inherited. It is therefore important also to get those who are single-parents into working life. We also need a change of mind. It's said that lonely caregivers are poor, they're poor resources, they're far from work, yes, they're poor as a very special type of people, who can't cope without very special arrangements. Today, there may be too many arrangements to deal with. We have good arrangements both to study and to capture those who are temporarily in a difficult situation, and one year after a break is made. I can only understand that there is help for self-help, and it is the Advance Party proud to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2788	You should always be humble when making arrangements that are important to many. As a politician, I believe that this is a natural starting point, and that is all in politics. You can never be 100 percent sure of the effects of what you do in advance. But the transitional aid has a concrete history. The last time the transitional aid was introduced, it was carefully evaluated, and the evaluation report showed a significant increase in income among very many of those who had been on transitional aid, who were probably justified by the fact that more people had come to work. If you think that the transitional benefit is in itself so rewarding, SV and the government should suggest that you extend the period again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2793	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2798	The council must wait until she comes up to the pulpit before she breaks out with her opinions. I think the starting point is just the same dynamics for which the government criticises the cash support for two-year-olds. Fafo has unequivocally stated that reducing or removing the cash support for parents with two-year-old children increases child poverty. Why? Well, given nothing else, it means a cut of 3,000 kroner a month for many parents. The point is that there is a need to combine such measures with just activation and work training – all these things. The government says that there is now an activity requirement in the transitional benefit. To some extent this is true, but the problem is that parts of the activity requirement are that you have to be registered as a jobseeker at Nav. Then the Right's point is very simple: can't we get people to work instead? You're going to get one year, you're going to get an extension if there's special circumstances, but can't we get people to work instead? I also miss a response from the government parties to three absolutely crucial things. We hear nothing from government parties after seven years about how they want to get better results in the action sector. There's a lot of good there, but the results are too bad. In fact, for the time being, we have not received any clear promise that the Brofoss Committee's suspension will be presented as a separate matter to Stortinget. It is always said to be provided in an appropriate manner. Nor have we received any response from the government parties on how to reverse the decline in the employment share of people with disabilities. In fact, there has not been a lower proportion of people with disabilities in work since we started recording the numbers. The recipe of the government is not keeping. Nor have we received a defence for the most unsocial tax increase of the time, i.e. a tax increase directed directly towards those who are ill in Norway – for which the government must answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2807	The councils are on the list of speakers. It is preferably the pulpit from which you speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2810	The increase in the number of young people under 30 years of age was 10 pst. from the second half of 2011 to the second half of 2012. Of course, there are too many. Much of this is due to mental illness. People with mental disorders have been disabled before and are disabled longer than people who have other illnesses. One of the most important things we can do to prevent more than necessary permanent outbursts of work at this young age is to put in place an offer of psychological assistance that is close, available and that can be reached quickly. Psychiatric disorders can be treated and results can be improved with early help. The Health Directorate also states that early intervention is working. So we need more low-threshold deals. Today's system is not suitable to capture this well enough. Psychiatric problems account for nearly 10 pst. by the consultations of permanent doctors, but 40 pst. even if they lack competence in this area, the decision-makers consider that they are not competent. A doctorate dissertation from 2007 found that largely underdiagnosed mental problems such as anxiety and depression, and that is serious. That is why the Right has proposed a system of fixed psychologists in the municipalities. We want to have a better psychological service in the municipalities with several general psychologists and better organisation – including through the reimbursement system – for coordination with the permanent services. If the scheme is good, the escalation is wild, politically run and supported by smart incentives, you'll succeed with the recruitment. It is only through prevention and treatment that we can help those who are currently permanently out of work. We saw that the number of disabled sank the last time the Right sat in government. With the alarming growth we are seeing today, it is time for new and better solutions to address the fundamental problems. So it's time for a well-being that works. Finally, I would like to point out that the Right-Steering Akershu County Municipality has done a lot to be early out there and prevent mental illness. We have subsidized a full health Easter position at all secondary schools in Akershus, despite the fact that this is a municipal task. It is a very important prevention measure that provides good results, and it is an example of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2822	It is necessary in a debate such as this to address the Right’s proposal on ‘normative or standardised sick periods’, because it is intended to cut the cost of sick pay by more than half a billion dollars, as indicated in the budget. What we can at least say is that it is not appropriate to strengthen the rights of employees or to cooperate with employee organisations. We know that the employee organisations now, as before, and in fact also with the support of the Medical Association, are opposed to such an action because it will result in many people actually losing their sick pay while they are still ill. The idea behind the proposal is quite revealing. Indeed, the right does not trust that the social partners, through the IA cooperation, will be able to achieve the objectives outlined, and they clearly believe that the doctors have a medical practice that is so far out of order that they keep patients from working longer than is strictly necessary. One thing is that the Right’s proposal must be de motivating to the social partners, who have actually managed to reduce sick leave down to the intended targets, down to the lowest level ever since the IA cooperation began. But sick leave went down from 5 pst. in the second quarter of 2011 to 4,5 pst. in the second quarter of 2012. Among women, the absence went down from 8.3 pst. to 7.8 pst. during the same period. When we know that most of the sick leave is due to mental disorders and musculoskeletal disorders, a proposal for standardised periods of illness is easily a parodic cut. But the worst thing is, of course, that the Right now threatens the IA cooperation. Because when the Right does not trust the social partners, they cannot expect the parties to trust the Right. In a blue-blue government with the Progress Party, perhaps also with the Left, there is evidence of further intervention and attack on the health pay system. The progress line cuts as known as $1.6 billion. kr in the sick pay scheme, which of course updates the Left's proposal to cut the maximum sick pay period by one month, or to implement a 10 pst. cut in sick pay. Taking an average of these proposals, they will each represent a cut in the amount of NOK 45000 per year for those who are going through the search period in full. Who is it that tolerates such a cut? In addition, a month’s curtailment of the sick pay period will result in the long-term ill-reporting of sick pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2831	This budgetary debate shows that the opposition and the government parties are divided. The budget we are debating here today shows and alerts a completely different course if the bourgeois were to come to power for the harvest. What characterizes the opposition, not just in this debate, but in the last four years in this field, is passivity – no new solutions, old news and resistance to what we do, which works best. It does not help to add to any additional millions more than the government parties do on some measures to increase their activity — in function assistants or in action areas — when, at the same time, an overall structural policy is pursued in the field of working life with old goods and solutions that will make working life more difficult to cope with, raising the threshold, and lower the threshold, a working life that is getting worse for those who are not 100 pst. All the time. To remove the effective measures against social dumping, and to open up competition for pay and working conditions, to undermine Norwegian wage and working conditions and to make the situation of immigrants worse, our entire model of working life is at risk, and it helps little to increase the number of jobs in a few thousand or ten million. kr more. By the way, that supervision should also take over the job of the trustees in the whole country in the workplace. The trade union movement shall be given less power and have fewer tools — it shall be weakened. The Working Environment Act needs to be softened, and when the right-hand side is talking about softening the work environment law, people have to listen, because it means less rights, that means more power on the employer's hands at the expense of employees. This is a warning about a completely different working life in the long term. That is what this budget is about, and that is what the elections for the autumn are about. Once again, in this debate, we have confirmed that the sick pay system is threatened – the Left proposes cut today, the Progress Party will not talk about it, no one will notice the 3 billion. Dr. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will not guarantee that there will be no changes, it is up to the national meeting, and we know what debate is going on in the Right – it is a warning that not only is the future of Norwegian working life, but also the future of some of the most important parts of our safety net that the voters are going to go to the urns and decide over to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2840	In 2005, poverty was among the highest in the red-green election campaigns. We got the impression that they were going to eliminate poverty with a ‘pen stroke’. We saw another reminder of this in the evening post today, where the red-greens are trying to explain away the promises they made that time. It is understandable that they go quietly in the doors, because after seven years we have the fasitium: there are several poor children, there are several disabled, there are several drug users, and there are more disabled people outside the workplace. In other words, they have reason to go quietly in the doors on this question. Poverty is a complex issue, and it has no simple solutions. Unlike the government parties in 2005, there is something we in the Right have always been aware of, whether it is social exclusion or hunger, that we have talked about earlier today. Persistent low income is often as much a symptom as a cause. It's about being drunk or sick and staying out of work for a long time. Therefore, the main measures against poverty are a good school — and a good child protection for the most vulnerable children. You need a health care system that uses all the good powers, so that those who are sick can quickly get back to work. You need a work life that is open to everyone, including those who are not A4, for example. because of a disability or because of a difficult growth. For work is the key if we are to survive poverty. We do not need more passive poverty traps that keep people out of work – we need to make it easier for more people to participate in the work that others take for granted. Therefore, I find it disappointing that the government parties could not support us on the proposal of 25 million. to local poverty measures, which are precisely about children being able to participate in social arenas at the same level. So I would like to correct my own statement from earlier today. Of course, our proposal concerning assistants will apply from 1 January in our budget. The 30 million. kr, as we have proposed, is a double of the entire year's allocation. So until the end of the normal sick pay: the intention is to cut," said the Workers' Party representatives. No, it's not, it's taking care of the world's best health pay scheme. I also noticed that the representative of Gullvåg called the proposal 'parodish'. Then it is tempting to quote something that Stoltenberg wrote already in 2010: ‘An important tool has been to standardise sick messages, so that each diagnosis has a normal sick absence. And of course, there's room for adaptation to special conditions. However, for the sick person, the doctor and the workplace, it is an advantage that expected absences have been resolved. The experience from Sweden is that this has reduced the length of sick leave.’ That's the way it can be said. It is important to take care of the good health pay system that we actually have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2862	In principle, there is no equivalence between an employee and an employer in the labour market. The starting point is that the balance of power is distorted. Therefore, it is also so worrying when the Progress Party proposes to cut the deduction from the trade union quota. We know that we've gathered all the civil parties before, and when we don't know how to balance the budgets after the election, that's something that will help to distort the balance of power in the world of work. And it's just the employee groups that need a trade union the most, that will often be the ones that go first. It's low pay, people with a minority background and young people, and economics is actually important when you have low income. Then there is a concern about the increase that has been associated with ‘lighter mental disorders’, as it is called. Then you often talk about depression and anxiety. But it's not that anxiety and depression just happen by itself, it's very often that people go through life crises. I fully agree with Kjersti Toppe that alcohol is beyond doubt, without comparison, the biggest challenge we have when it comes to drug use. But then I think we should also be humble because life is not just black and white. Many people have a complicated reality to deal with. Then it can often be what keeps your head above the water. Equally important is easy access to psychological assistance, lowthreshold services. But first of all, whether it's going to be healthful to work depends on what the workplace is like. In fact, there must be room and understanding for people to go through life's crises, it must be openness, and one must be able to talk about it that sometimes can be difficult. Finally, I would like to say that language is fantastically important. I take myself into it many times, that I'm a little bit uncomfortable with language. Often, there are expressions such as ‘drug abuser’ that go back, or that they talk about ‘psychic developmentally impaired’. I only know people with a mental retardation. I only know people who can have a drug addiction. No one has the right to reduce anyone to a diagnosis. It itself helps raise the threshold to talk about what can be difficult. That's why we all have a big responsibility, because the language we ourselves use is part of inviting people in or pushing people out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2871	Let me start by giving praise to the previous speaker. I think it was a brilliant post. I drew myself to be able to say something about this debate on transitional benefits, and cash support to that extent as well. I think it's an important discussion, and I don't want to get rid of it that easily. I'm not sure if it really is that the opposition here is not aware of what kind of legislation applies when it comes to transitional aid. In other words, vocational activity is required in order to be entitled to transitional benefits. You have to be in activity that represents at least half of the full time. So you have to be at work, you have to be a real jobseeker, or you have to be in education. Then Fafo on behalf of my department, BLD, has looked at this scheme and in particular how it works for recipients with immigrant backgrounds. Their conclusion is that the scheme works well as temporary help for self-help, and that the large majority goes into work after the end of the social welfare period. But then the recipients also have different assumptions to capitalize on the possibilities of the scheme and to qualify for work. In particular, those who have a low level of education and who have weak Norwegian skills, who are struggling and need more. We also see that in the case of Norwegian training, and we see that in the introduction programmes. We have to differentiate more and tailor more and give closer follow-up. This Fafo report also concludes that closer individual follow-up is needed, in particular, for those with poor Norwegian skills and low levels of education. That's where I think we have something to go on in our systems. For the cash support, however, there is no requirement other than that, namely that you do not send your children to kindergarten. It's perhaps the stupidest requirement you can make if you're going to get access to these women and provide both good integration, good equality and equal opportunities for all children. It's completely impossible to understand that you want to cut into what actually works for transition to work, while at the same time you have to pay people not to be at work. It's completely impossible to understand. Then I just said, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look. The drama is governed by the Right, and the Right – the councillor and the rapporteur – nodded when this was said when I was visiting, and said that in the Drama it is not professionally sound to provide cash support. I fully agree – it is not professional to extend the cash support as proposed by the right-hand parties. Now the Right will also force the municipalities to use a cash payment that is received by several people, precisely because they see that it counteracts everything that we are so proud of in Norway and that is needed to ensure that women are able to cope, children are going to be okay, immigrants are going to be okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2886	In the previous round in this room, when we had the finance debate, I took it up, I've taken it up earlier and I'm going to go on with it: when we talk about people who are on disability, and talk about them being permanently out of work, we have to remember that it's this hall that agreed that it should not be like that anymore. It's a historical description. It may be true that this is true in part today, but we have made the changes that are going to take place in order not to be like this for the future. At the same time, we are making the adjustments in all the other areas that are needed to make it work. We actually agreed that it was not a good way to treat people. Historically, it could have been right, but that's not what we're going to follow forward. And then there's one more thing that I'm also going to rehearse about – chewing on forever and ever: Functionality and working ability have no similarities. They may have it, but there are no similarities that are automatic. We also have to repeat that in this room again and again. That means that when we're going to put together an instrument to get disabled people to work, we don't necessarily know what it's going to be in macro, because it's extremely different in micro. That's why we've created some tools that can be used individually. I'm kind of glad that the Right thinks a little bit in the same paths, does a little bit more of what we've put into the job strategy, but we've actually adopted it and are going to follow it up. So there's one more thing that I think it's okay that we take a little round on. It's that we've gotten into it -- I call it that, for my part, at least -- a little bit of an amazing situation that changes the proportion of people with disabilities in society. The proportion of people with disabilities in society — not the number but the proportion — has fallen in recent years, and we cannot explain it well. We can do a lot of thinking exercises, and we can do a lot of theoretical exercises, but today we can't explain it well – from 17 pst. to 15 pst. by the population. Is it because society works so much better that people don't see it as disability anymore? Have we dealt with so many more that some disabilities are disappearing? Were the oldest coals in society more disabled than the youngest coals that have come in, so that when they fall off, the proportion is lower? All possible technical, practical thinking exercises – right now there are thought exercises. We have a way to go. That means that we also have a challenge to think about how many people are included in the world of work. It is a voluntary matter – with an employer who has really included well, the employee does not have to resign as a disabled person. He's just a worker.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2897	I hear that this figure continues to decline by 37 000 in the number of people with disabilities in the workplace. But this is largely due to the fact that the proportion of people with disabilities is falling. We're not recording anything, but there's something people say in labour force surveys. As the representative Brandvik was involved, it was 12,2 p.m. in 2010. in the 15- to 66-year-old age group, who said they had a disability. Today it's 15.2 pst. It's okay that the opposition gives the government responsibility for what's not working, but it's kind of weird that the opposition owes it to the government and makes it a problem that fewer people are now being registered with disabilities. I believe that this is an offensive budget to get more people with disabilities in work, through job travel, through youth guarantee, through several action areas, through salary subsidies and through car arrangements. We are now using what we have done in other parts of Nav, namely the unemployed, so that people with mental disorders are better integrated into the labour market. We're now using the same models for disabled people. So I think this is a very offensive budget in relation to people with disabilities, even though I'm not satisfied with what we've done over the years that have passed. So these numbers are still drawn out that the number of failure is increasing. It's increasing primarily because we're becoming more people. And then the number of young people is increasing because we have removed a system of temporary unpaid pay. There were the parties here on the Stortinget trailer, because they thought that going a long time in Nav and clarifying time and time again and again didn't make people fresher. The right has itself said that if people go too long in Nav, they get sick of it. But what they are actually proposing now is a reintroduction of temporary unpaid pay and no more. And the Right also writes that they should have a «knowledge-based welfare policy». We've been investigating this with standards for medical reports, but our leading experts advise us not to do so. The strange thing about the Right Budget is that it also requires, without any professional advice, that it should provide a saving of 0.5 billion. kr. Then you have clearly a lot of money you can suggest in this room to be used for other measures. This isn't money Right has. There are no professionals who say that this gives the corresponding cut in sick pay. I am in favour of a knowledge-based welfare policy. It doesn't represent the right in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2908	In absolute terms, there has been a decrease from just over 230,000 to 210,000 disabled people, so this is probably due to the hardly any problem raised by Tove Linnea Brandvik. There is also reason to believe that perhaps some of this is due to the AKU study, but it is a different matter. The point is there's been a share and a number that's gone down. I took the floor now to clarify one important thing, the most important thing that was said, or the accusation that someone came along with, namely Steinar Gullvåg, who said that the Right undermined the IA agreement. We, the Right, have been very clear from this pulpit, both in the previous period and this period, that the Right is behind the IA agreement. We are also faced with – in all our proposals – negotiated solutions, as has been done with the parties. But that doesn't mean that the political discussions are over. By then, Neppe Stoltenberg had launched anything in 2010. I would also like to remind the representative that Gerd Liv Valla has brought a book this week, which clearly illustrates that those who proposed to break the IA agreement were his own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2917	Robert Eriksson has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2920	Let me first point out something about my question to the Council of State about the transitional aid and the level of activity. It's true that if you have a degree of activity equal to 50 pst. education or 50 pst. job, they have fulfilled the requirement to receive transitional benefits. The council says she wants to get more places on the qualification programme to help this group. But dear, sweet president, the fact is -- with respect to reporting -- that if you go on the qualification programme, you have qualification support. You shouldn't have both. Here I think the Council of State actually has to clean up a little bit in its own conceptual practice. I strongly react to what the representative Trettebergstien said in his reply that it is a vulgar question to focus the search light on the seriously ill children. I really must say that I think it is vulgar to all the children who do not receive the care they are entitled to, not to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2929	Karin Andersen has spoken twice in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2933	I think I'm going to settle for the President. Sylvi Graham was up and said there might be other reasons why people had a hard time than that they had little money. [[Laughter]] I think we also have to admit that having little money can lead to illness and aggravating problems. We can see that, among other things. in the protection of children. If we do manage to get a child protection that can actually help both the children and the families, I am absolutely sure that much of the mental and physical illness and the drug and health problems we see will be better. There are a lot of bad things that result from a difficult childhood, and it goes for generations if we don't do anything about it. That's why what we're doing there is so important. The transitional benefit and the training benefit are not passive benefits. It's just to establish that fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2942	When the cash support comes up, the Christian People's Party cannot sit still, and I understand that SV is still very frustrated with the cash support. We deeply disagree on the value of the cash support, and we just have to respect that. While the left-hand side is talking about getting out of work as quickly as possible, the Christian People's Party is talking about the value of being able to choose, for example. to be at home a little longer in the first year of life of the child or to use a scheme other than kindergarten when the child reaches the age of one year. We also have a debate in our society where some professionals in the last few months have raised the question of the value of kindergarten already at one-year-old age, when we lack as much competence staff as we actually lack in kindergarten today. We're talking about our children, and not anyone can take on the responsibilities of parents much of their lives, without having the necessary skills. It's precisely when freedom of choice becomes so incredibly important. I have to ask the representatives to stop and talk as if the cash support could be given to the firm or up to the firm's figures. We're talking about providing cash support to 1- and 2-year-olds. Finally, what Robert Eriksson has said about sick children and care allowance, is also a great responsibility we have as big business representatives and, of course, the government, which has the majority here today. To sit and watch that when a child is sick for more than two years today, Nav defines this as a chronic illness, and then you don't have the right to care, and it's completely independent of the child's age and diagnosis – it doesn't matter! We have to change the legislation. I have mentioned this many times, and I promise that I will also address this throughout this period – the rest of my time as a wholesaler.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2955	Anette Trettebergstien has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2958	You just have to repeat the facts once and for all: More people are working under this government than under the previous one. We have lower leave, and we have created more jobs. Fewer consider themselves disabled. The proportion of young people in the labour force is falling and the proportion of young people in the labour force is stable. Poverty, which increased under Bondevik, has flattened beneath us. Less are on social assistance, and fewer are on sick leave. I'm not so busy with the statistics, because I'm most concerned that we're going to go on. We want fewer people who are ill and disabled, and we want more people with disabilities to work. But when the opposition successively uses wrong statistics to blackmail the situation in Norway, we have to say from. Things are going in the right direction, and we want four new years to take Norway further in that direction. The opposition's policy will lead to a number of backward steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2965	It is often the case that at the end of debates, details begin to become more important and important. But if we try to draw up the big lines, which this debate has been about, we see that the opposition is going high on the track and starting all the posts with the new ideas and solutions, and they're going to be super fleet. When they are then confronted with concrete questions, no, it's not that bad, and it's not that much, and they're going to deal with the IA agreement, and they're not going to cut the sick pay, etc. Then you get the impression that they really want government policy. It's not like that, but what they've understood is that the people want that policy, and therefore they try to stick up to us all the time, by actually minimizing the policy they're going out with when it comes to concrete solutions. What do we see? It's not that much new. The right-hand side and the opposition will have less management of the market economy and industrial development. We can do this, for example: look at the gap in regional food development resources. They want tax relief, and what does the tax charge mean? Well, there are 4,400 people who pay their taxes, so that the tax money goes to ten of the people who have the most from before. We see it in equality policy. The kindergarten sector is a classic example now. Joda, they will build public owned kindergartens, both in Oslo and Kristiansand. What is common to the two municipalities? In both municipalities, the Progress Party and the Right. That's right-wing policy, and that's good right-wing policy, says Right in our municipality. We see it in municipal policy and in fiscal equalisation. How's the stand? Ida, right there is going to reduce tax equalisation, and they're saying it's hard to assess. However, they have never provided any solutions to what it actually becomes like for municipalities, which are still to employ nurses, teachers, home care workers and caregivers in the period Right has stated that low-income municipalities can have a higher income base if they develop business activities. But the welfare state should go around the municipalities, unless money is spent. That is the reality. We see it in health and care services and education. It has to be privatised, and who benefits from privatisation? Is it the poor who go to the social office that they talk so nicely about here today? No, it's not them. It's those who have money and can buy these services. And it shows all the privatisation experience; those who use the services are they with more money. That's why it's interesting to follow the debate when you see how the opposition is trying to run two horses all the time: on the one hand, they're supposed to appear so new and modern, and on the other hand, they minimize the consequences of their own policies to try to look like what the government is doing for the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2984	The representative, Steinar Gullvåg, has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2987	For the sake of order, it's true that the Workers' Party in its time also looked at standardised periods of illness, but we put it away. We put it away because we got good advice about putting it away, and because the social partners didn't want it. I record that the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen is in possession of that knowledge today, and the parties' views have not changed. Nevertheless, the Right Norms propose medical periods, in the certainty that it violates the IA agreement. So, the right is now acting in a way that brings the IA agreement to its knees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e2994	There has been an interesting budget debate. I think we should respect that different parties have different solutions, but there are a lot of people here who have common goals about where we want, namely to have a working life that includes as much as possible, that makes it possible to live on their income, and that takes care of those who are on the outside of the world of work in the short or longer term. The Progress Party has put forward a well-balanced state budget. It has good measures to stimulate more people to work, it has good measures to stimulate business to invest more to secure jobs and create new ones, and it has good measures to invest in infrastructure, research and other things that enable one to further develop the Norwegian economy. No one from the Progress Party is trying to give the impression that Norway is not a good country to live in, but it is possible to do things better in some areas. However, giving the impression that it is the government's tax policy and ownership policy that makes things go well in Norwegian business is taking a little too much of a mouth. The oil industry is a catalyst for the Norwegian economy, says Statistical Central Bureau. We have to remember — as some here like to compare the situation as it was ten years ago — that in 2003 the oil industry invested for approx. 60 B.C.E. kr. Next year, it's going to invest for 204 billion. kr. And this is an industry that half of the government's parties really shouldn't have had the size it has. When the SSB says that this is a catalyst for the Norwegian economy, it is important that the government parties recognize it and give credit to this industry, instead of pretending that it is not. If one does not understand the context of the Norwegian economy, one will not deal with the day oil prices are on a different level, and one will have to stimulate the economy in a different way. Employment has grown a lot – and that turnaround started in 2003, well before the government change – but the challenge is that while one has seen employment continue to grow in the last four years since 2008, the share of the Nordics has fallen, while one continues to import labour. This means that there are some Nordics standing on the outside of the world of work, while the overall statistics still look good. That's why the Progress Party has done a lot of work in its alternative state budget, which in sum means a bet of 4.5 billion. Dr for patient treatment, rehabilitation, psychiatry, apprenticeship grants, job strategy, etc. in order to bring into the labour market more of those who are currently outside the labour market and to prevent or stop the influx of those outside the labour market. As a result, we are also downgrading the appropriations for disability benefits, sickness benefits and daily allowances – as a result of an actual rate more – but the downward adjustment we are making is actually less than what we are adding to in actions. So this isn't to balance a budget, but it's the consequences that someone here actually wants to bet more than the government does. We should have that in favour of, and not criticism, as we have seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3007	Let me start by ending up with the introduction of the last speaker, which is that everyone here in the Chamber has a desire to contribute to a positive social development. But it doesn't sound quite like that when you listen to the government parties. You should almost think that it was the Right and the other bourgeois parties who were in government, and that the government parties were in opposition, because you are hammering at the bourgeois parties, not according to what we stand for and what we propose, but based on a created scare image that you argue against. It's a little worthwhile way to make political argument. The representative Kari Henriksen had a long tirad about right-wing municipalities. I would like to remind you that half of the Norwegian population lives in a right-wing municipality. One of the two Nordics lives in a right-hand municipality. The right was strongly promoted in the previous municipal elections. It is not because the Right disassembles the welfare community, but because the citizens see that the Right politicians stand up every morning and stand for a better school, for safe kindergartens and for good care for the elderly. It is because the Right contributes to a positive development in the Norwegian community that the voters increased their right-wing support in previous elections. Anette Triettebergstuen's closing posts can well be summarized as follows: We haven't gotten what we wanted in eight years, so please give us four more years. Let me just remind you that the number of young people who are disabled is rising, and the proportion of people who are disabled in work is falling. If the number of poor people has flattened out, at least it has not been possible to reduce poverty, and the differences in schools are increasing. Here's the big challenge to tackle. A little bit more humble, I think maybe you should be when you've been sitting in the government offices for seven years and not nearing the goals you've had in these areas. The right has a special focus on the school. We think that's the key to reconciling social differences. There have been reports showing that one is closest to achieving something towards that goal in Oslo, with Higher School Policy. Finally, Steinar Gullvåg, who refers to what he calls standardised sick pay periods. The right has never proposed standardised sick pay periods. We have proposed standard health pay periods to improve quality assurance for the length of the medical period, but we have established that it is the doctor's assessment that should be the last word in the individual's case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3022	The representative Sanner uses strong words and expressions, for example. that the government is not in the vicinity of achieving its objectives and that the parties of government are attacking the bourgeois parties. Well, those who hear it here, the sea can evaluate. What's central to the red-green parts is to tell you what's most important to do better in the future. The representative Anette Trettebergstien summarized in a very good way the results so far, while what we are facing in the workplace, is even more demanding today than it was a few years ago. The challenges of having a say in the labour market, of giving opportunities to the authoritative person, are extremely difficult in the situation we now face, with large wage and income differences between Norway and other EEA countries. For the red-green, it is to have a balance of power in the labour market – to work for strong professional organisations that can have a balanced power in the relationship with employers, strong professional organisations for seafaring traders that can have power in the relationship with those who buy their goods and services. This is one of the trademarks of the historical red-green policy, and what is good red-green policy ahead. Similarly, it's incredibly central for us to avoid getting a two-part division in the world of work, which we now experience in many, many industries. This is the demanding, big and important issue that one needs to focus on. In this area, I would say that the red-green parties have a boldness, an effort and an ambition that is far, far greater than the Right and the Advance Party have appeared. That's the core of this discussion. That's why I feel that when the Center Party is part of a red-green alliance, we are on a historical and forward-looking safe basis, because this is what we focus on – unlike what the Sanner Party does, which has never focused specifically on ensuring that balance. As a farmer, I know at least this: the relationship of power between the sea-going farmers and the trade in goods is a good example of where the Right has positioned itself, namely on the part of the trade in goods, which leads to the disfavor of the sea-going traders in the balance of power. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3037	Kari Henriksen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3041	I just need to comment a little bit on Sanner's observation that we're painting the Right Policy. I have not blackened the Right Policy. I've tried to say what they're doing in Kristiansand, and then I've said that there's a lot of concern in Kristiansand and Oslo that they're actually doing it. So we'll see to the next election whether the inhabitants of Kristiansand and Oslo are just as satisfied with the Right Government as they were the last time. At least I remember very well back to 2005. At that time, not so many people were satisfied with the Right Municipal Policy. The way I read those budgets, and when I hear the debate, I don't see the big changes. When we point that out, we're accused of black paint. But when they point out all the flaws and shortcomings in our own policies – as we also admit in part – they say that we defend ourselves and that we do not want to change. We are changing – we are making changes – and we are in the process of developing forward-looking public services and private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3048	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3077	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3086	The two propositions Prop. 152 L for 2011-2012 and Prop. 135 S for 2011–2012 needs to be viewed in a coherent way and therefore debated together today. Prop. 135 S concerns the approval of the Decision of the EEA Committee on the ‘Inclusion into the EEA Agreement of the Regulation on the freedom of movement of workers within the Union’. The decision of the EEA Committee has been taken subject to the consent of the Storting because the implementation of the Regulation in Norwegian law requires legislative decisions. The Regulation on free movement of labour does not essentially contain any substantive changes, but requires some terminology changes and adaptations to the EEA Workers Act. All lots, with the exception of the Party for Progress, consent to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Regulation on the free movement of workers. The Progress Party wishes to postpone the enforcement law in Norwegian law. I expect that they themselves justify why. The matter has been referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which is associated with the position of the Labour and Social Committee without any comments. Prop. 152 L concerns the implementation in Norwegian law of the same Regulation of ‘on the free movement of workers within the EEA territory’. The condition for implementation is that the Storting also agrees to the inclusion of the regulation, as the majority of the committee does in the vote I just referred to, the vote on Prop. 135 S. Implementation of the Regulation also requires legislative changes. A new EEA worker law and its repeal are proposed here. As I was inside instead, the regulation does not introduce any material changes. It applies to workers who exercise their right of free movement for themselves and their families in the EEA territory. In order to ensure this, all discrimination based on nationality between workers from Member States must be abolished as regards employment, pay and other working conditions. The Committee endorses the proposal. The lot of progress refers in a note to its comments in relation to the treatment of the previously mentioned proposition, Prop. 135 S on the inclusion of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3101	I want to start by stating that Norway needs labour. Of the nearly 350 000 new jobs created since the government change in 2005, half are covered by non-resident labour. The single European labour market is therefore an advantage for us, provided that we are able to offer everyone who comes here decent pay and working conditions similar to Norwegian workers. It's a big and important task. Those who come here to work should have the same rights and obligations as Norwegian workers. This is also the case when Norwegian workers take up work and stay in other EEA countries. I would hardly believe that it is currently particularly relevant for Norwegian workers to apply to Spain for work, but the Nordics who live in Spain have, in the same way, the same rights to the same health services as the Spanish have. As the only party, the Progress Party chooses a relatively technical EEA Regulation on the free movement of labour, i.e. one of the basic principles of the EEA Agreement as regards the EU internal market, to demonstrate resistance to what they call social security exports. The views of the Progress Party conflict with the EEA Agreement in both spirit and intention. In this context, it is very important that the Progress Party now clarifies whether they are in favour of or against the EEA Agreement. It is now that we cannot pick and choose what we are for, and what we are against in the EEA cooperation. Of course, we may not accept implementing EEA legislation, but we cannot oppose the decisions of the European Court of Justice. It then breaks to those degrees with the legal system to which we have joined through the EEA Agreement, that the agreement actually falls if we should not respect such decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3110	The Party to Progress is in favour of the EEA Agreement. It doesn't mean that we don't have the right and the ability to discuss and not least ask questions about different problem settings and issues relating to Norway. Such questions also show that others in the position, e.g. in the Workers' Party, also busy from time to time. The Labour Party's welfare selection has already concluded that it will stop increasing social security exports to Poland and other countries and that payments will be paid according to the price level of the country in which the recipient lives, which is supported by the Progress Party. And then we'll see if the national meeting of the Workers' Party concludes the same thing. At the same time, it is clear that the unrest in Europe, with high unemployment and greater social disparities, makes Norway more and more attractive when it comes to work, but also when it comes to services of varying degrees. The step forward is for the free movement of workers. Many of our workers who come from another country are worth gold for our society to go around. We have to recognize that. But at the same time, it must be allowed to ask questions by saying that living and living here in the country, with the costs involved, is one thing, while something else is when the family members of those working here can achieve welfare arrangements outside Norway at the same time, without asking questions about the cost level of the country in which the recipient lives. The Progress Party also questions social services law. In January, there was a new regulation clarifying the rights of those who have resided in Norway, and one, because of the obligation of professional secrecy, does not have access to information that might indicate the validity of the residence permit. A suspension period shall in fact be at the bottom of any decision. In addition to welfare payments of varying degrees, one as a child of workers also has a right to education in the form of general, apprenticeship and vocational training. So if a family member works in Norway, both children and spouses are entitled to benefits for education in their own country – from Norway. The Progress Party believes that there must be part of these performances that should be attached to the housing address – and then in our country. When moving from here, it must be automatic for the performance to be terminated or adjusted to the cost level of the country, such as the Welfare Selection of the Workers' Party has concluded. As I say, there are many questions that make the Progress Party want to highlight these different issues, including the question of whether one is on the right track when it comes to exporting our welfare arrangements. That is why we want a proper review of the consequences of such an introduction, not least in the long term, against the challenges we face, with our own increased expenditure on welfare benefits. I am aware that the Ministry of Labour has started a work to review all the findings, against the export of these, and Norway's operating rooms. This report is expected to be completed before this year. It would be interesting if the Council of State could give some information as to whether they have received any looping messages along the way, and whether there is a willingness to make any changes in this area. I take this up with me the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3132	The representative of Laila Marie Reiertsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3135	Inclusion of Regulation, EU, No 492 from 2011, mainly contains no substantive changes, but requires some adaptations to the EEA worker law. As it is said, the free movement of labour is an important principle of the EEA Agreement. That principle is increasingly demanding. It's a development that the Center Party has seen would come. When we have the free movement of labour combined with the free movement of capital in the situation we are now in, the situation becomes increasingly demanding for Norway. Therefore, it is quite natural for the Centre Party to be against the EEA Agreement, but that is not what is at issue today – this is a more technical adjustment. Some have been concerned with the need for labour. It is quite obvious that Norway today needs a lot of labour. The labour immigration we have is worth gold in view of the many work tasks to be done. But I would like to make a comment on this with the need for labour, because it is, after all, a question that is to some extent under political control. This room has a certain opportunity to have an opinion on future labour needs. We can, for example: change tax rules in relation to oil activities, which could mitigate the need for labour in that sector. We would also have had the opportunity to change the tax rules in respect of those who today buy apartments, not to live there sail, but to make money on trading such apartments. This could have an impact on labour demand. On the part of the Centre Party, we refer to the mobility of services in the EEA area, which creates new challenges for the Norwegian welfare model and our universal welfare systems. This is described in detail in NOU 2011: 7, Velferd und Migration – Brochmann Committee. There, the challenges created by the mobile labour market are highlighted, and these must be solved in order to maintain the welfare model, that is, our universal social security benefits, in the long term. I would also like to refer to NOU 2012: 2, Outside and within Norway’s agreements with the European Union — the European Commission — warning that the Nordic model can come under increased pressure and face demanding adjustments in the years to come, including as regards the development of the financial, debt and euro crisis. It's called: ‘In addition, increased labour migration after 2004 has created new challenges to the extent that labour immigration leads to a growing low-wage market, it can in the long term also create new stresses related to the expenditure of the welfare state, the effects on incentives for work, and legitimacy.’ [[...]] This is important and very difficult. The centre party takes the above seriously and believes it is important to work to prevent Norwegian welfare benefits from increasingly being exported out of the country. We point out that Norway has had historically high net immigration in recent years. We also show that the large supply of labour within a number of occupational groups causes a downward pressure on the pay and working conditions of employees in these occupational groups, which is an undesirable development and which has a negative impact on many employees and maritime workers in Norway. I'm glad that these are themes that the whole red-green alliance is occupied with, albeit to some degree varying, and in what way we're going to solve it. Finally, I would just like to stress that, at a time of very high unemployment within the European Union, it appears to be particularly demanding to discourage increased exports from Norwegian social security benefits under today's EEA Agreement. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance that Norwegian authorities are working to implement measures that will in various ways limit the challenges of maintaining an orderly working life characterised by agility, maintaining norms and rules of play, and counteracting the formation of low pay in parts of labour laws, with increased social expenditure as a consequence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3162	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3176	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3190	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3199	Freedom is the root of all evil, says a good saying, and as most of the sayings, there is something in it. I would say there is little that worries me so much that the youth without a reason gets off the job without anything to do. When young people meet at Nav, there is one last chance, for the greatest and most important effort, to prevent young people from going out of work and on social benefits, must be made before they get to Nav. Every person, of course, also young people, has the primary responsibility for his life. The Workers' Party is concerned that we should have a good welfare society that takes care of and has room for everyone. But we're not going to have a society that relieves each individual of its own obligations. ‘Naving is the new word of the year’, it was written on some online language before today. We had a debate about naving around Easter times, and what I said then, I would like to repeat: naving, in the sense of young people who can, but just don't want to work, come to nav, is unacceptable. If they get these benefits, there's a violation of the rules, and it has to be stopped at once. We don't need any rule changes for that. These are the rules today, and I expect them to be enforced. Unlike the Progress Party and the Right, we know that the main problem with youth on social welfare is not that young and healthy suddenly come to Nav and go out again with a check in hand without being faced with a single demand, as the representative Røe Isaken said last Wednesday in the Question Time. Neither is it so that Nav creates young decapitators, as Erna Solberg so tabloid has said. This is about young people with mental problems, with dramatic losses and difficult family backgrounds — it is about young people who do not master the school. The Labour Party is committed to doing what works, and we build our policies on that. The right opens doors with its representative proposal today – opens doors, but creates prejudices at the same time. The intention of the draft by the representatives is reflected in today's law, but in a more sensible way than the wishes of the proposers. It is a matter of course, as the law already says today, that, where appropriate, performance activities shall be required. We are committed to seeing man — see its problems and challenges — and that Nav should set the requirements for action that is right and that leads to a change in each one. The right is clearly more concerned with the system than humans and wants a standard for all, regardless of challenges. It will provide less individual adaptation and more state control. It will deprive the counselors in Nav, who meet these young people, of the opportunity to make the exact individual assessments and tailor the good plans, as we do, for example. add up when we now add the youth pledge to the budget – more of it. The opposition's direction is one that we recognize from the 1950s, when it was thought that whip and equalization were the best means of achieving the goal of human development. What are the realities of the proposal we are now discussing, and what are the differences? Everyone believes it is important to prevent young people from falling out of school. We all believe that work is important and that leave must be prevented. All of us believe that those with health challenges must receive prompt treatment. We all believe that young people who turn to Nav are going to get quick and good follow-up. We all agree that any youth who could have worked, but who ends up on social benefits, is a tragedy. But we already have the legislation today, and that legislation needs to be enforced in a correct and professional way. Entrepreneurs shall not receive social assistance. The law says that they should be put into action – turned in the door. Now we're looking at the extent to which the law is used to get the correct, up-to-date figures. For it to be used, and not to a large extent done at each Nav office, the practice is to be changed in order to be in line with the law – sentence. We need to make clear demands, requirements that have a purpose. We're going to do that with a good offer of help. It's our solutions -- they work -- and they're the ones I want more of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3214	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative of Trettebergstien that the unnaslutters should be turned in the door, and that they should be given activity. But then it is true that the law has great flexibility – today it is the case that municipalities themselves decide whether or not to impose an obligation on social welfare recipients. There is no statutory provision that says that it should be like this for everyone, it is up to the municipalities to decide for themselves. The Progress Party has previously made a proposal that was discussed in ours, where we said that we want to get activity requirements laid down in the law. It's because in the municipalities that have tried it and have had a good try on it, it turns out to work very well. Many of the points of the Advancement Party – as I also said in one of the examples in the budget debate earlier today – about Soraya, who has gone for one year without having been helped further towards activity, towards entering the labour market – are that we want a much more flexible and closer follow-up that prevents people who want to get out of work going for one year on social assistance. There is also a need for much stronger action across the chain in the form of both several action sites and closer follow-up in a number of other areas. You might also have to look at the qualification programme. I have registered that when it came in 2007, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said that these were the government's main measures to combat poverty. It was also said that people would end up living out of social assistance – that's what former councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said. However, we record that the figures show that there are still the same numbers — the numbers of social welfare beneficiaries have not fallen since the qualifying programme arrived; they are still the same, the Fafo report confirms. The Progress Party believes that closer, more committed follow-up and better alignment with labour market measures are the way to go, rather than passive social assistance. It would be detrimental to individuals, and it would be detrimental to society, if the labour force were not to be qualified to carry out the tests and to get out of work. I hope that the Council of State can take this matter further and attach it to the minutes, and that the government is committed to taking it out of the drawer and looking ahead to it. I hope for at least two things about social assistance: I wish that the government had followed up on what the Progress Party promoted in the representative proposal in ours, among other things. Follow-up to what is also pointed out by the Brochmann Committee — both to put a ceiling on what can be achieved in social assistance overall, and to introduce norms, equal rates across the country. It is a major problem that the rates vary greatly and that some municipalities do not even have their tax rates in excess of ten years. That's what I think is a serious problem, and it affects them all, most weakly because it's precisely those who live by these living performances. I also think it is important to have a debate on whether it is appropriate to have social assistance in the municipalities. Should you perhaps transfer it to the state section of the Nav offices and allow the state to take over it as a whole? I think it could have ensured a better follow-up to the individual and a better and smoother treatment, where the whole chain of measures had been seen together, and that it had been one and the same actor who had been responsible for it. I think this could have been a much better way for those who go on social assistance. The party of progress is very much in demand because it's about helping people move faster into life – towards education, towards work. I think it is a pity to leave it a matter of judgement that one leaves to the individual municipality to decide – just as one has also moved the qualifying aid into the framework grant to the municipalities, which we see has meant that those who need the most follow-up have been deprived. The sitting government should have learned enough from the results of how it has worked and should start to think again — should start thinking in a new direction that ensures better follow-up for these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3229	There are many reasons why people end up on Nav, there are also many reasons why people get there as social clients. This proposal is not about fineing all those things – I have mentioned some of them earlier today as well, economics can be a question, and have dropped out of school – but this is about one concrete thing. This is about avoiding the failure of those who come to Nav, who are healthy and have a working capacity. It is wrong that there is a violation of the rules that young people who are healthy should receive social assistance. It really depends on what kind of economic situation they have. If you qualify financially for social assistance, you should have it – that's the way it is. I hope the Labour Party does not disagree with that either. Here's the main point: we need a low-threshold offer to get people active as quickly as possible. This is not a substitute for people gradually going into e.g. qualification programme, measures which qualify them for work or ideally returned to the school bench. This is a low-threshold offer that has one single purpose, and it is to prevent people from turning around 24 hours a day, going outside and being passive while they are waiting for action from Nav. One might say that these measures should be speeded up, but then the problem – as I mentioned earlier today – is that the government does not even know how long the waiting time for action is, and they do not know how long it is between measures. What we can rely on then – since under this government we have chosen to live in ignorance – is anecdotal evidence: stories, stories, testimony from people around the Nav system. They tell — both employees and young people who are there — that this is happening all the time. There come young people who are entitled to social assistance, simply because they have an economic situation that qualifies them for it, and then they go for maybe a month, two months, three months — maybe even longer — and wait for them to find out what to do or get them to do. It is wrong, and that is what this proposal is meant to address. The working party's attitude to this – maybe I'm the one who's slow in thinking – is completely impossible to understand. I must honestly admit that I do not understand what the Workers' Party means. When this was relaunched in our – right has meant this for a long time – we got a lot of mouths from red-green politicians, including workers' party politicians. I think the Labour Party's attitude is summed up well in what the representative Anette Trettebergstuen said, namely, that the Right «beats open doors, but creates at the same time prejudices». That is, on the one hand, the Workers' Party says that this is what they've been fighting for, here they don't have to do anything more. On the other hand, they are now going through the system to see how it is being practised and have invited the municipalities to the dialogue meeting, but at the same time believes that when the Right promotes a proposal on it, it somehow confirms prejudice. This is a party – I'm not going to say that the Workers' Party is moving away from the line of work – which is fundamentally confused about its own policy of making demands and having people in action. Finally, I would like to point out that it is strange – it is not always the 1950s we are going back to – that the workers' party's biggest representatives are constantly punishing and referring to the 1950s. As far as I remember, the prime ministers when Einar Gerhardsen and Oscar Torp, it was the Workers' Party that crashed, and it was perhaps the time of greatness for what was the slogan of the labour movement once: «Do your duty – Need your right». In my opinion, this is a proposal in exactly the same spirit, that if you want to demand something from society, you also have a duty to give something back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3244	Some of us are so old that we lived in the 1950s, and can give the witness that people who had a hard time also wasted both prejudice and money. The world has gone a lot ahead since then. I'm glad. The problem with this case is that there are too few people who get the help they are going to have, which they are entitled to receive under the Social Services Act, and what is called the Law on Social Services in Nav, when they come to Nav in the municipalities today. The Law on Social Services in Nav says that people will get the help they need, with follow-up both to get into activity and get a good life, and they have the right to get help with the economy if they don't have money. That is why it is – in the light of the law – to open doors. There are many Nav offices that set terms, and some people do well, and it's going very well. Then many more get into activity and get work. But it's not about making one claim to everyone or doing it on day one – as the Right says – it's about finding out what this man or this family needs. It's very difficult for many to change their lives if you're in a situation where you have to go to the social office or to Nav. Living in poverty itself can lead to inaction, marginalisation and isolation rather than increased activity, and it is quite serious. Particularly serious is the change in the view of seas that both adults and children often get, that they feel inferior because society around them treats them disrespectfully and as inferior when they have come into a difficult situation. I think that's the worst part of it. Some of the bad things are that we've checked how Nav follows up these obligations, so Nav in the municipalities. The first survey was bad – the hot enough “Communes break the law on financial benefits” – and now there have been follow-up in several other municipalities. It's just as bad. I've gone into a right-hand municipality for fun to see what it's like there. I checked up on Kristiansand, who has been in charge, and there are actually serious violations of the follow-up of people who are entitled to social assistance. Children’s families do not receive follow-up; they do not follow-up — sometimes they do not know that they are young, and there is no proper follow-up — for example. some of them would have benefited very much from work training. This can be done in many ways, but the problem here is that the municipalities – despite the fact that they themselves would benefit from getting people to work – do not do this job. I'm really wondering why it doesn't happen, because there's also rice at your own back, and there's a lot of difficult lives that could have been avoided if you had set up with the quality of the measures. I very much agree with some of what the representative Lundtigen said in a line change here before today, namely that it is about offering something decent, not some nonsense or index finger or ‘do this because I say it’. You have to assume what are these young people – if that's what we're talking about – want in their lives? What dream do they have? I've worked a lot on what's called the mob project, and this is the starting point of that project. I visited them when they started a course here in Oslo not long ago. In the first break, all the young people were thinking about what they wanted to be, and the jam had figured it out too. So they said they had never thought about this before, because no one had cared about it. There was no one who had cared about asking them what they want with their lives, no one who has cared about supporting the wishes, dreams and hopes they have. They've tried to push people into a system to discipline them or threaten them back on a school bench that they're not ready for, because they don't understand what they're going to be there. There is a lot we can do to follow up people who happen to be on social welfare, for very different reasons – young people, older people and families with children – but there is no need for more coercion. There is a greater need for those who have this responsibility – and that is the Nav offices – to follow up on their duties. Then many more will be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3259	I'm glad the theme has been addressed, because it's important, and the discussion can create focus and debate about it, but it's an incredibly demanding topic. In Bergen’s Official Journal today there was an article at 5 p.m. 14.27 on ‘Erna shall take the hubs’. ‘Today, the Stortinget refused to require activity from young social clients’ was the title of the Official Journal of Bergen. It's a little bit strong. They're all going to get rid of their neighbors. In the Central Party, it is quite clear that those defined here as ‘naves’ must be taken in the neck in a firm and wise manner. That's what Karin Andersen said -- in a wise way. The ‘smart way’ may be that those young people meet people who care about them and who understand the situation they are in. You shouldn't have so much life skills or work skills until you understand that maybe that's what to those degrees is the lack of these young people. Once you've worked a little bit with young people like that, you'll find out pretty soon that you can bring out so much positive with these people, which you at first didn't think were present at all. It's one of the most upbuilding and joyous things you can do -- give those kids a chance. But those who receive such social assistance are in very different situations of life. On the part of the Centre Party, we do not want to give the Right’s proposal ‘shut’, but we will critically consider what is really the content of the proposal. ‘Social assistance applicants are required to have the right and the obligation to participate in the activity as soon as it is possible to carry out it if there are no specific conditions to which this is not possible’. I.e. as soon as it can be implemented and if there are no specific conditions. I have been a public prosecuting officer. How should I govern by such a rule – as soon as possible and not entirely special conditions? Here we're talking about a group that has to the degrees special ratio, in every case! And then a new concept is introduced: it says that there should be an ‘absolute general rule’ — what kind of rule — ‘that financial benefit should be eliminated or reduced to the applicable emergency aid rates if the recipient does not meet the agreed activity’. I agree that a meeting should be held for the agreed activity, but what is the ‘absolute general rule’? Is it an absolute rule, or is it a general rule, or what is it? Then it says that a derogation should be granted for disease and that an exception should be made ‘if the children of the recipient are at risk of being injured’. Yes, there are a lot of people affected by it. And if you're going to take away social support, you're going to have to go into emergency aid, but what's emergency help? Basically, economic social assistance is society's last chance, and long-term relief, what does it lead to? Well, it leads to criminal nutrition. So I'm asking you to think about the whole thing and how difficult this is. A new circular has been issued to the Social Services Act of the Labour and Welfare Administration, published this summer by the Employment and Welfare Directorate, and there is the intention of the Act to lay down conditions for the award of social benefits. I'm glad. Social assistance is a municipal responsibility, and the municipalities have proximity and the best assumptions. Old man's been brought up. Åmli: no derogation from today’s rules. But I would like to emphasise again: in this area, as in other areas, it is the municipal capacity and willingness to address the problems that are crucial. Many of the challenges facing municipalities today are linked to this field, while local government representatives and administration have too little focus on it. I can't go to a single annual meeting in the Center Party today without saying that now you have to turn your focus around, now you have to focus on the situation of these people, because it's about dignity, and it's about local economy. Different solutions are needed. Russ and psychiatry are the fates of many social welfare recipients, and once you've worked on it, you know how complex it is, and you might need new arrangements to make people like this take responsibility for their situation. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3286	What is clear, at least, is that when it comes to speaking time, it is not a general rule – it is absolute!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3289	There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee that passive social welfare is a poor solution both for individuals and for society, as more people before me today have pointed out. Anyone who is able to work or be in activity must have the opportunity to do so, and getting early in activity or work is also crucial. The Christian People's Party supports the inclusion of the proposal in the Minutes. The regulatory framework we have today is not an obstacle to the obligation of activity. Several attempts have been made – not least from the municipality of Åmli, which is also referred to by the proposers. Introduce more than half the number of social welfare recipients by introducing an activity obligation, and they did so in today's legislation. That is why the Christian People's Party is also positive about the duty of activity, but believes that today's legislation does not initially prevent this. All municipalities can, if they want, introduce this according to Åmli's model, and it is also important that municipalities take lessons from each other. But I do not overlook the fact that it may later be relevant to change the legislation – it is the Christian People's Party willing to watch. However, I believe, like the government parties, that it is right now best to await the results of the ongoing government review, which will be completed early in 2013. This review is based on a decision taken by the European Parliament on 1 March of this year. Opposition lots are impatient to receive the results of this review. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important to take into account what is behind the causes of long-term social assistance, as the proposers also point out in their proposal for a representative. Often there are health problems and other things behind, and I believe that some people who are ill, today often faulty ports in the Nav system. There are some chroniclers, and people with other illnesses, who are waiting for health care, or who do not get the necessary rehabilitation or regular health care they need to be able to stand in the job. Therefore, we should have a much closer cooperation between health, labour and social authorities. Finally, in the case of mentally ill people, in these days, there are many professional environments that say, perhaps more than before, that activity and work in itself are health-threatening, and that is something we should also take into account in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3302	The representative proposal contains a number of proposals aimed at ensuring that beneficiaries of financial support are not passive. Work and activity are a good thing, but I think the changes that the right here is about cannot be documented to give more activity. The Party writes in its alternative budget that it should have a «knowledge-based welfare policy». I want the changes that we are making to be knowledge-based. This government will not have a legislation that will allow everyone to take action from the first day. There's a very big difference between a single mother who goes to the social office to get help buying Christmas gifts, a drug addict, who may first need treatment, and he who really needs demands, because there's a lot of care in making demands. The proposal from the Right implies tightening the ability of municipalities to use judgement and ensure individual assessment. The aim of the use of economic social assistance and social services is to enable each one to support himself. We know that the individual treatment is absolutely fundamental in our social services and is crucial to the success of social work. However, we may need to amend the legislation, have more State standards in this field, but in that case these changes should be justified in fact and in knowledge. That is why we have both started research and contacted a number of municipalities to ask for their input on whether we need more state rules in this area. The municipalities make greater demands for activity than before. Nav has conducted a survey showing that the majority are using requirements for activity. We have also seen a decrease in the number of beneficiaries of social assistance — both the proportion and the number of beneficiaries of social assistance since 2005. But many of those who receive economic social assistance have major problems, and for them the road is long and untidy. For the government, it is important that the measures offered by the labour and welfare management or imposed on people to participate are good and targeted – that it is not a ‘similar measure’ after two to three days in order for politicians to get on the chest and say that they are demanding activity. The purpose of good demands is for them to contribute to work. The government is particularly concerned about the young. Efforts to prevent young people from being referred to economic social assistance have been reinforced by a broad range of efforts to strengthen secondary education, to prevent drop-outs and to extend the Youth Guarantee. The new youth initiative takes account of the fact that young people are different. Some people need education, others need treatment for drug problems. It is important to provide the necessary help to get into work. In a new circular to the Social Services Act, follow-up to young people is also particularly important. I am in favour of demands for activity, but I am concerned that we have done this in a good way, by tightening up the circulars, doing surveys through Nav, asking for a better basis for possible changes to the rules and inviting the municipalities to advise on how to design the state guidelines. It's been asked if we're going to have more state standards for social assistance. I am not a member of it, but I am a member of a better cooperation between the state and the municipality within Nav. I notice that Trondheim, who has a unified management in Nav, has suffered the greatest decline in the number of social welfare recipients. In Trondheim it's almost reduced by 20 pst. in the last five years. There the rapporteur says: our work is systematic. We give people an alternative to social assistance. And that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3323	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3327	I saw the stern glances of my co-representatives who have had a long day of meeting. That's what it's like to be a meeting plague. I agree with a part of what the Council of State says. I don't disagree when you call something'similar'. And I think it's very funny that the Council of State in a matter at ANB today highlighted just Åmli as an example she thinks is interesting. There they have just referred to the Council of State as ‘similar measures’. They set people up to help with moving, maintaining and that kind of thing, because they understand that for the low-threshold measures — not for everyone, but for the low-threshold measures — the main thing is to counteract passivity. So I wonder, what does the Council of State think is «equal action»?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3336	We have seen a number of examples of this from Sweden, where they have measures to decorate the statistics: quite different people are set to paint the same chairs. It's for someone a good offer, for someone needs it extra puffed, but others need another type of activity. So putting a cancer patient, a slightly sluggish youth, and a drug addict to do the same thing, I don't think is a good enough offer. The issue with the Åmli model is that it works very well in Åmli, but I would like to hear from the rapporteur in Stavanger and the mayor of Bergen if this is a good model in their municipalities. I'm not necessarily so sure. And therefore, when I introduce new measures to strengthen the obligation to operate, I would like to know if we are going to implement the same rule in all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3343	I have to say that then the Council of State is more excited about what's happening in Sweden than I am, because I think painting the same chairs is pointless regardless, even if it's an activity. You actually have to help people with something, you can't just dig a hole and fill it up again. But I am glad that the Council of State signals something quite different than the Labour Party representative here at Stortinget, who said that today's legislation was completely optimal as it was. The Council of State here now says that you have a willingness to review the legislation. I notice that it happens by accident after the right again raised this matter in the spring part. That's okay, it shows that the opposition can also have some influence. My question is then: if it is important to look at the legislation again, why have you waited seven years with that? The government has now had power for seven years. This is not a new issue, approx. a quarter of social clients have been under 25 years of age for almost all the seven years. Why have you waited so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3350	We have introduced targeted measures to reduce the number of beneficiaries of social assistance that have worked. We've reduced the number and proportion of social welfare recipients, so we haven't expected, and we've seen through surveys that more and more municipalities are demanding activity. So the question is, are we going to further restrict municipal freedom, have more state standards? It's possible we should have it. But if we're going to get a new code, I want it to be knowledge-based changes, in cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3357	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3360	I noticed that the representative Red Isaac himself said that he was confused. Now I hardly have the competence to clear up the mind of the Red Isaacs representative, but I am able to understand that this issue is about whether a state directive on the obligation of activity is suitable for solving the underlying problem, namely, that too many young people drop out of education and work for various reasons and end up applying for help for housing and living. In my opinion, municipalities have the law they need to put young, healthy people into action, and they do so – albeit to varying degrees – on the basis of their local conditions. So they don't need government orders to do that. And when I pick up an example from the Right Municipality of Sandefjord, it is because I am quite sure that the rapporteur there also feels no need to get further state orders in any field. Close cooperation between schools, municipalities, hubs and businesses, including the social partners, is often the answer to the challenge we face in this field. One of the fruits of this collaboration is the so-called Sandefjord model, where young people under the age of 35 who are seeking social assistance are turned in the door and sent for work relief almost at an hour. And if they are employed, they have work practices in the municipality of Sandefjord the next day. 7:00 a.m. Here they are followed by skilled workers, as a transition to normal working life or further education and training. If the jobseeker does not meet at work or drop out of work, social assistance also stops. As part of the project, Nav i Sandefjord has entered into cooperation with the recruitment companies and with two of the municipality's largest industrial enterprises, and several companies and industries are following to ensure a variety of offers and to ensure that as much as possible their place in the ordinary working life is found. Nav in Sandefjord is not unique. Similar offers are available in several places in the country, not as a result of state orders, but because Nav, municipalities, county councils and business take their social responsibility seriously and do what they can to open the door to work for young people who have had a difficult start.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3371	A Chinese saying, "Give someone a fish, and he gets fed all day. Teach some to fish, and he gets fed all his life." The right considers that help to self-help should be the guiding principle of social services. That is why we also believe that there is a need for action in order to receive economic social assistance and a reinforced follow-up to it. The main point is that passiveness is harmful, especially for young people who seek the benefit for the first time. Not making demands is not good, but in many cases it will mean giving up people. It's not showing people respect. Of course, it shouldn't be an activity obligation for people who are too sick to work. They should receive treatment and help to return to work — and, if not possible, have a permanent disability. No, this is about young social clients visiting Nav for the first time. As the representative of the Trettebergstuen said in Case No. 2 today, when the young people meet in the Nav office, it's really the last chance. Yes, work and activity are the key to lasting well-being, non-passivating support schemes and waiting times for actions that run up to one year. Therefore, we need lowthreshold services for this group — without waiting time. I think most profoundly want to work and contribute. But there are probably people who are struggling with motivational flaws or bad habits. In those cases, you may not always be able to make decisions in – as it is called – collaboration with the user. Sometimes clear demands must be made, and there must be clear consequences if the requirements are not followed up. Therefore, it must also be predictable that social support will be reduced if there is a lack of follow-up. Right knocks open doors, says Trettebergstien. It doesn't sound like she's been talking to her own government council, because she's ordered an investigation. Government lots point to the existing legislation, which provides access to activity requirements. Well, the legislation itself does not prevent passivity, it also needs to be enforced. That's why it's incredibly nice to see in Akershu's Official Journal today that the Council of State will now find out – by learning from municipalities she has called – how best to do this, and whether the rules need to change. It is also nice that the Council of State states that she is a member of an activity and believes that there is a great deal of care to make demands. It's taking people seriously, and I totally agree with that. So I have to say that I've got a little feeling that it's about doing this proposal down just because it's the Right that has promoted it, while going in the direction that we're proposing, while saying here from the pulpit that there are different practices in the municipalities, and while the Council of State is talking about a possible tightening of the legislation. By the way – it was nice to hear the representative Gullvåg tell from the Right Municipality of Sandefjord, because there are many municipalities that do well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3392	Today, we can read in Bergen’s Official Journal that Erna Solberg and Right will take the neighbors, and that the Stortinget today said no to introduce the obligation of activity for young social clients. Solberg stated to the Official Journal of Bergen that they ask the government to submit proposals requiring persons seeking social assistance to have the right and obligation to participate in the activity as soon as it can be implemented, as long as this does not prove impossible, and that an absolute general rule shall be that financial support falls away or will be reduced to the current set-aside if the recipient does not encounter activity. I would like to refer to the representative Lundteg, who well illustrated the weaknesses of this proposal. The leader of the right said to the Official Journal of Bergen that when the Right comes into government, they will do so. It is, unfortunately, that the Right controls a number of large municipalities, and the setting states that all parties, apart from the Progress Party, are still for social assistance to be a municipal responsibility. Thus, in accordance with today's legislation, municipalities, including the Right-Handed, can make demands on individuals when granting financial support. It also happens to a greater or lesser extent in many municipalities today. Right-municipalities can therefore introduce the obligation of activity today if they so wish. The municipality of Bergen is run by a Right and Advance Party bureau. At the moment, there is actually an interpellation for treatment in the Bergen City Council, where the City Council is asking the Right and Progress Party Council to bring up a case for the City Council to look at the possibilities of implementing increased demands for activation of social assistance recipients. Then I think that maybe the leader of the Right and the representatives of the Right, instead of standing up in the media demanding to take the neighbors, should talk to their own people out in the municipalities, at least where they rule, if they actually think it's so decisive to introduce activation demands in order to get social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3403	Only so that no misunderstandings arise on the basis of the wording in the Official Journal of Bergen: The President makes it clear that voting on case No. 6 happens after it is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3406	Everyone cannot get the dream job, and jobs are not just fun and exciting and something everyone wants. Too many people have their everyday lives turned their heads around. There may be TV games, there may be other things that make you just as happy to choose to be at home and rather go to the social office to ask for money. The fact that we have many young people without work today who are looking for the social office should not be necessary. There is no unemployment in Norway, and Swedish youth are being imported to take jobs that could be taken by the vast majority of Norwegian youth without higher education. It's only 2.5 pst. of the Swedish youth working in Norway, with higher education or more. So it's not just about young people having to be highly educated to be able to work. I think we have to stop telling young people every day. They can do a good job even if they have not completed high school. I went for a walk up the Hedge Hill road and the Bogstad Road a little while ago, and then there were at three of the shops, just in a few quarters, a note on the doorway saying that they wanted the dispatchers. There was no requirement for higher education, but I expect demands to be made on how young people behave, and whether they are really motivated to take up work. There must be a requirement – not just for municipalities and public requirements to contribute, help and support, even if there is a need for supplements. Clear demands must be made that every human being has the primary responsibility to support himself. There were some measures here in Oslo in the time of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that showed that when there were demands for activity, there were very many who fell away when applying for social assistance. Some of them had black work alongside, and some of them began to put forth more effort to get regular work instead of going to work practice. They really didn't have a real need for social welfare. But it was quite convenient. Then there are many who have problems with drug abuse and mental disorders. We know that, but why doesn't the government go in for immediate treatment? Why should there be a waiting time for this type of treatment? These young people are not getting any healthier by raising social welfare benefits, rather on the contrary. Many end up in social security, and more and more people now move from social assistance to redundancy payments, and on to disability benefits. Then I have to say that I am quite surprised that both the Right and the Workers' Party and the other parties owe it to them that the workers' party municipalities are the worst, that right-wing municipalities are the worst, etc. I believe that the solution of the Progress Party is the best. Let the state take responsibility, let's get equal relationships in all the municipalities, and use Sandefjord's example as a template.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3421	What is certain, at least, is that man is not standardised. I think we're going to wake up a little bit to imagine going on social assistance. It's an equally big problem, I think, there are also some people who should definitely have gone to Nav to ask for social assistance, but who don't, because you feel it's stigmatizing. There are many different people in need of social assistance. What is at least certain is that no matter who you are, in order to succeed in your own life, you need a fixed place to live – a place that is your own. So it's like everyone needs an economic base that makes it possible to make positive changes in their own lives. But there's too many child-restraints who are going to end up on social assistance. The causes are many and complex – there are people who may have a partially traumatized background, loss experiences, broken relationships. The experience of not succeeding, whether it's school or getting to work, does something about self-confidence to people. So when you're talking about meeting people with demands, I actually think it's so important to meet people with positive expectations. For who really does not want to succeed in their own lives? We must have adapted activities that are meaningful and that are not perceived as a criminal or control measure. But it's incredibly important with good social work in Nav, so that they can also meet the people who may have lost faith in themselves, and be involved in identifying positive resources. Unbelievable numbers of people don't see the positive qualities, qualities and resources they own. Then you need a social worker who is actually involved in raising the qualities of the human being that make it possible to look another way out. Some of the interventions are somewhat influenced by the fact that there may have been no special contact with people in social assistance. You should really avoid that. When we go through the city here, we see some people who are naked to spit and spit – those who are sometimes referred to as drug users. Here we have to think of untraditional methods for people to succeed in their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3437	‘Navere’ is a new word – the one to be taken. We've made a bag for them: it's young guys who don't like to work or don't bother to go to school, they just want money. Have we at all been philosophers about whether we are right – do I as a neighbor have the right to know what the problem of the neighbor boy who does not have income is, and who has fallen out of school and has not got a job? Do I have any right to that? At regular intervals in these discussions, it turns out that we all ‘know someone’. What do we know every day if we know someone that? It's exactly the task we've given to those who sit in the social offices around this country, to evaluate it on an individual basis. They are the ones who are going to take that evaluation on behalf of society. It is not we as neighbors, or as viewers around the cafes, on the street and in the main hall, who are to assess whether people are ‘naver’. Do you think that's very ok for the boy who's really met the wall mentally or physically, fell out of school and has to go to the social office and ask for help for money, to tell his friends that his life went all the way? It may be that the day he feels upstairs and is out with his friends, feels better to say, "I've taken a year off, I'm going to Nav." It has something to do with self-image. At least we're not going to swallow the rhetoric that says people are "naving" around society. We have given professionals the responsibility to follow people up, then we really have to trust those professionals. If we go to check, most of the municipalities take that assessment, facilitate the law of the day and have done it over time. When I was rapporteur, before Nav, we employed more people in the social office to follow up on those who were social clients. We saw that there was an increase, we thought that something is happening here. What did we experience? Well, we felt that someone needed help clearing up the economy so they got right back. Someone needed help to get to work, but had not been able to fix that solution themselves. And then there was someone who was just so sick that they had not been able to apply for disability benefit. We also had to help them through the system. It is the ‘naves’. The only common feature of these ‘naves’ is that they have too little money to get their everyday lives around.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3452	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank representatives from both the Workers' Party and the Centre for their very good contributions to this matter, which shows that many people here have insight into what it is like to end up in a difficult situation. I've met a lot of these guys we're talking about here, and some of them have got the wrong side out, that's absolutely right. Most of them experience seagoingness as undesirable and useless. I can't even imagine what it could be like when you're young. Many of them have never received support from anyone, many of them have no support at home and have not gained fully elementary knowledge of how to handle their own everyday life. All they have as a strategy is to defend the position they stand in. I get very sad when I realize that grown-up presumptuously wise people sitting on the Stortinget believe that this is a strategy you actually choose, and do not manage to see that this is the only thing you can say to keep a little spark of marine respect in their lives when you see that all the doors are closed. There are not many weeks since I was on a course at Nav in Moelv with many young people who were in such a situation. What they're saying is that they've been totally lonely -- they've grown up in disadvantaged families with little money, and they've been molested and outcast, not only in the infantry and youth, but also by their parents -- because ordinary people find themselves too good to be with people who have bad advice, look down on them, think all sorts of strange things about them, as the representative Brandvik now said. They have experienced themselves as really outside of society, and then they come there and have a course called everyday life, where they learn simple things that other people learn at home. Everyone had found out what they wanted to be, and something they wanted to do, they were on their way there, and they now sat and called employers. Nav did not know enough about these employers who might give them an opportunity, so there is a problem that the council should also notice. So I wrote a little bit about this on Facebook, you're doing it right now. And what did I get in response? Well, should you drive and learn up-and-coming Norwegian youth about everyday life? It was really something you should learn somewhere else! It's so full of prejudices against this, and there's so many young people who need exactly what the representative Lundtägen also mentioned, to be met by an adult person who cares, who might even take a little more than professional responsibility, one who's there. If you show that you're an adult to trust, you can make demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3465	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3471	It looks like we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3479	A total of 30 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-17, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party, proposals No. 18 and 19, by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 20 and 21, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 22-30, from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 22-30, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government asks the government to provide State guarantees for loans to health businesses.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘During the spring 2013 session, the government is asked to present a case highlighting the state of Norwegian health buildings and medical engineering equipment, as well as a proposal to finance the maintenance work.’; Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Stensby Hospital continues to relieve the capacity challenge at Aarhus.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that regional health businesses go through the funding of health businesses with a view to correcting weaknesses in the funding model.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government requests the launch of a two-year pilot project allowing the use of rescue hoists for the air ambulance service with three crews on board. It is assumed that the project will be evaluated after two years and that the evaluation report will be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a legislative committee to look at the appropriateness of bringing all enforcement legislation in the health and social sector into a common law.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government requests to provide older people with evidence, if necessary, from the district attorney, of a legal right to hospitalisation.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make technological solutions that promote preparedness and patient safety, such as the VAKe project in Health Nord, more accessible in hospitals.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the ISF reimbursement for physiotherapists in the specialist health service in the context of the revised national budget for 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3552	The proposals are then put to the vote. 20 and 21, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to include hearing impairment in national health statistics.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a post-calculation of municipal expenditure in connection with the Cooperation Reform so that the reform is fully financed as intended.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3574	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 19 from the Party of Advancement and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to increase the input-driven funding in hospitals to 50 per cent in the context of the State budget for 2014.’ [[ISF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3589	There is a vote on proposal No. 18 from the Party of Advancement and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that healthcare businesses go through their activities with a view to improving the efficiency and competitive deployment of services outside their core business in order to release funds for patient treatment. This may include, for example, cleaning, laundry, watchkeeping, etc.’.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e3606	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 1–17, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a grant scheme that stimulates municipalities to associate with persons with a clinical nutritional competence.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all parts of the specialist health service have access to the national core journal, including the pre-hospital services.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on a new national health and hospital plan in 2013. The plan shall anchor the development of the specialist health service both locally and nationally and be addressed by the Stortinget. This plan shall include an overview of the investment and maintenance needs of the sector, a new investment regime and minimum requirements for the functions of different types of hospitals, as well as the development of pre-hospital services, including the air ambulance service.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on a phasing-in plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up an independent investigation commission to see if the main city process was in violation of patients’ lives and health, and whether this is due to the fact that the process was too poorly prepared.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size of the government asks for the government budget for 2014 to increase the borrowing framework for major hospital investments from 50 per cent to 70 per cent.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scientific study to be undertaken to measure the effect of treatment in a warm and sunny climate on persons with MS.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that the competence and capacity of private and non-profit institutions for training and rehabilitation are used.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the necessary legislation so that private and non-profit actors can also apply for investment grants for the construction of nursing homes in line with municipalities.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish guidelines to enable municipalities to keep statistics on how many people should have at any time had access to health care facilities in the municipality.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of medicinal products for people over 75 years of age who use more than five different drugs in order to increase their patient safety.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to design the rules for grants for the care and care of the lucky day so that the scheme can include private and non-profit actors wishing to establish the hospice.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need to set up its own master’s education in the care of children’s palliation.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of drug treatment and psychiatry pilot projects in terms of organisational form and funding arrangements in the Cooperation Reform.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a funding scheme to ensure psychologists in municipal health care.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward with a view to making the distribution of grants to organisations in the health and care sector more predictable and comprehensive in a single department and in a common line.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a fund to finance the use of new, innovative medicines at an early stage. The Fund may be financed by funds allocated to the BIP which are not used due to price reductions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6387	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6404	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 4-5, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 6-9, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party 10-19, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 20, from Torbjørn Røe Isaacen on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a key message on the future organisation and content of labour-oriented actions, based on the NOU 2012:6 Brofoss Committee: Investigation on labour-oriented actions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6437	It is then voted on the proposals 13, 14, 16 and 17 of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a tripartite industry programme to strengthen the serious outdoor industry and to counteract the unprofessional sector.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to review the rehabilitation arrangements for injured military personnel in foreign operations and to return to the Stortinget on its own initiative for this group which also includes a war pension scheme.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a time-table for sick pay for cancer patients and other seriously ill people, and to present the matter to the Stortinget during 2013.’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the inclusion of a complaint category in the sick leave forms.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6471	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10–12, 15, 18 and 19, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a system allowing users in very special cases to change their Nav office.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of funding and follow-up of the qualification programme to Nav and is included in the State part of Nav.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Stortinget by the end of June 2013, with its own key messages on the organisation and content of the labour market policy of the future. Interaction and purchasing methods between action organisers and hubs, professional methods of action and performance requirements must be key issues that should be addressed in such a large-scale notification.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make an assessment and review of the housing loan scheme to members of the State pension fund with a view to negotiating other solutions in relation to the main agreement.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a better rate system for freelance interpreters in the context of the revised national budget for 2013 and to propose, in addition, a mechanism for the granting of rights to negotiate to freelance interpreters.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asked to introduce annual adjustment of current pensions in line with the evolution of employees’ income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6514	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how users can be given the opportunity to change supervisors in the Employment and Welfare Act.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to bring forward its own case for the Storting to turn the trial system with service dogs into a permanent system and equal to today’s system of guide dogs for blind and partially sighted.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In the light of the announced evaluation in spring 2013, the Government is asked to submit proposals for a plan of progress and funding in order to achieve the agreed objectives of a universally designed society by 2025.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6543	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the 2013 revised national budget, to present a separate case on the excavation aid, where a complete review of the scheme is carried out.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6558	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the removal of the age limit for aid for training, stimulation and activation of disabled persons from 1 July 2013.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6575	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to await the imposition of administrative penalties for infringement of the notification obligation after the Storting has discussed the overall issues related to this as an instrument.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6590	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Stortinget by June 2013 with its own case on the overview of labour market measures and proposals for simplification of offers, for people with disabilities.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking to make the scheme of assistant permanent.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e6614	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget by June 2013 with its own case on the introduction of the Nav Ombudsman according to the model of the Patient and User Ombudsman.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e9710	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e9734	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will now support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e9778	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e9791	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e9805	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e9813	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to postpone the enforcement law in Norwegian law of Annex V(2) to the EEA Agreement. 492/2011 on the free movement of workers within the EEA territory and come back with a thorough review of the impact on our welfare systems of the introduction of point 2 of Annex V.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-05.ana.ud2355e9876	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
