ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e56	Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the leave of the representative Sonja Mandt on 19 and 20 January to participate in the Nordic Council's budget seminar in Copenhagen from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen on 19 January and until further notice from the representative Tord Lien on parental leave from 23 January to 13 April Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of the Troms County, Bjørn Inge Mo and Hilde Anita Nyvoll respectively, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the authority of the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen – both due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the County of Troms: Viggo Fossum 19 January and until further notice For the Southern Tribute County: Siv Aida Rui Skatem 25 January-12. April For Vestfold County: Heidi Ørnlo 19 January
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e114	Viggo Fossum and Heidi Ørnlo are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e119	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Harald T. Nesvik, Åge Starheim and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting proposals on the financing plan and organisational clean-up following the natural disasters in 2011/2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e124	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e140	The marine industry is one of the most important export industries we have. Despite a difficult financial situation out there, and thus lower prices for the products, it has proved to be reasonably good when taking into account export income and profitability. This tells us that measured against history, the industry has evolved in a positive direction. It appears to be a more modern, knowledge-based and market-adapted industry than before. It is also an industry that has worked hard on environmental challenges. It has had large-scale projects in the field of disease, it has worked with salmonmus, and it has had large-scale projects in the field of escape. Despite some setbacks, there are clear signs that the situation is getting better. The impact of the industry on the wild species is also a complex issue that is being seriously addressed. The villa itself is a complicated question, and the large aquaculture industry complicates this picture further. Common to all issues is the need to build work on facts. Only knowledge-driven development will produce the desired result. As a result of the industry's growth and success, the industry is now working in a sharper search light, both from the public and from the media, another is that the size of the industry and its rapid growth make it put significant traces behind it. The right fully agrees that it is right and important for policy-makers to impose strict environmental requirements on the industry. It should also be pointed out, to the extent that it has been unclear, that it is important that the industry has clear politically agreed objectives to deal with. The background of this interpolation is therefore two-fold. What actually triggered it is the headline we could read in the media in November 2011. In a press release from the Climate and Pollution Directorate, the heading reads ‘Fishing farmers lack environmental knowledge’. Clif has been on an inspection round to a selection of breeders and believes that everything is not as they expect to find it. The press release lists a number of expectations from Clif to breeders. Among other things, the ‘elaborate criteria for acceptable pollution of the plant’s recipient in the risk assessment and ‘set concrete, measurable environmental objectives for the influence of the recipient’ shall be set. Here I ask the Council of State the following questions: Would it not be more correct for Clif, on behalf of the responsible political authority, to draw up clear requirements for what is acceptable pollution? And will it not be more credible for Clif to set concrete, measurable environmental targets for the influence of the recipient in relation to the legislation adopted? In the right, we think it is right and important that public opinion is clear about what demands are being made. It is also easy for us who are familiar with the industry to shoot down claims such as ‘fish farmers lack environmental knowledge’, when they are as vaguely thought out as in this report. I can actually with pathos claim that this is not correct, and few can make me wrong. The press release is therefore not suitable for what it should be meant to: to inform and be an important input into the debate on the environmental impact of the industry. It must therefore be allowed to ask why a government agency needs to use such instruments to try to obtain a vote in the debate, for the same day a working group set up by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs concludes that the objectives set in today’s legislation deliver satisfactory results and that there are no signs of measurable changes in the nutrient salt concentration at the locations they have measured. Well this is a limited number of installations, well it's from a small area, and well it's just down to a certain depth, but this is one of the first studies that can say something about this with credibility. This report introduces the debate knowledge, and the press release from Clif is suddenly in a rather strange light – notice what I said earlier about the fact-based and knowledge-driven process. When different agencies and directorates question the suitability and credibility of measured values, traditional methods or agreed targets, it becomes problematic for society around dealing with these figures. That's the second motivation for this interpellation. For us who are going to make political decisions, it is completely impossible to deal with public agencies that are doing their information work on the template of Clif. It may seem that you sometimes have a competition for who's going to shoot the hardest and crush the most. Over the last few years, there have been several examples of tough debates between different state trade union directorates. In the right we are very happy with debates, but it must be allowed to look at the background. For a while it might seem that there had been an open conflict between the Directorate of Nature Management and the Marine Research Institute. There we experienced the amusingness that a researcher could be involved in a salmon council, funded by the Directorate of Nature Management, where both method and number were critically addressed – something the same person had to stand behind when the main employer, the Marine Research Institute, presented his view on the matter the next day. This is not suitable for creating credibility for facts. The Directorate of Fisheries presented figures for the leaching of farmed salmon, which showed a clear and cheerfully improved situation — this was in the midst of a heated debate on the theme — and experienced the day after being shot down by the Food Authority. The Food Authority doubted whether the counting method kept the desired standard. This became an example of very bad timing. Discussion around and choice of method should be clarified long before, all the time an entire industry, environmental protection interests and the political environment agreed that the results of the census should say something about the further development of the industry. As politicians, how are we going to deal with such processes? And the most important thing: how should the industry relate to such processes? State Council Solheim and Councillor Berg-Hansen organised last year a seminar in which they had set themselves the goal of correcting some of these problems. I must be allowed to ask the Council of State if he believes that it has been successful, in the light of what Clif performs in his press release. So to the wilderness axis. So what's the situation for the wild axis? In some environments, it is now a recorded truth that the problems of the wild species are largely due to the negative impact of the farming industry. Is this right? Do we have enough knowledge of the error axis to conclude this? No, say a lot. Then my concern is that our management of this might not be good enough. My concern is that the slackening of political timber should exacerbate the situation of the wild. It must be possible to use state institutions in such a way that knowledge they impart is more credible than at present, both for the sake of wild and farmed salmon. Right wants an industry with a credible environmental profile. This we know that the industry itself also sees as an important value. At that time, it must also be a central task for the responsible political authority to bring the debate into line with the credibility required to achieve this objective. We don't feel that way today. The right also wants the wild stocks to have the best possible conditions. Then the same rule applies. Confident treatment of evidence-based knowledge provides the best debate and the right policy decisions. We owe this to salmon, business and society. From the Right, we clearly believe that it is a political responsibility to ensure that we have a credible debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e180	The interpellant asked a very direct question and then pulled up a much wider back carpet. I have to say that I think it's the broader rug that's the most interesting, but let me first answer the direct question. The answer to that is in one word — no, there is no contradiction between the results of the supervisory action presented by the Climate and Pollution Directorate and the report of the Committee of Experts on Fertilisers. The reason why there's no contradiction between them is that there are two completely different themes we're dealing with. The supervisory action did not assess the level of emissions from individual installations or their environmental impact. Supervision is directed towards the management system of breeders and compliance with internal control requirements. The action showed that many breeders need to strengthen their knowledge of the environmental impact of their activities, in accordance with the legislation, and there is now a dialogue between the counties, the Climate and Pollution Directorate and the industry. The fact that breeders do not have good enough knowledge in this area is, of course, not the same as saying that all breeders do not have good enough knowledge of this. I assume that Bakke-Jensen also does not believe that all farmers in Norway have good enough environmental knowledge, and that we can therefore quickly agree that it is important to strengthen the environmental knowledge of those who do not have good enough environmental knowledge. The report on overfertilisation has given us more knowledge of the effects of industrial emissions from the breeding establishment, but also points to knowledge gaps. There is therefore no contradiction between the supervisory action and the over-fertilisation report, simply because they address two different issues. And then, before I get to the breeding industry itself, I want to warn the Hill-Jensen and the Right on an important point. There are repeated demands from the Storting that I or the government should create a professional view of important areas in Norway. I'm asking Stortingen to think through how dangerous it is. So we have to sit in government and ensure that all state experts in different areas come to a unified view. That view shall be presented to the Storting and the public. Those who really want to lose on this are not the government, because we'll get all the different professional recordings. Those who want to lose this are, of course, the Storting, the opinion and, not least, the opposition, who will then only have access to one professional vision, rather than different professional views that are pampering each other. I think almost everyone realizes that there is rarely one professional view in a case that is right, and that it is an advantage to get more. That is why I have given a very clear instruction to the Climate and Pollution Directorate, the Directorate for Nature Management, NORAD, the Riksantikvaren – all the institutions that are under my control: present their best skills, even if I disagree with the assessment. The Riksantikvaren has gone so far as to say that he disagrees with, critically with, the government's policy in areas, and if the Stortinget really wants this to go away, and wishes for one professional view presented – and that would of course be identical to that of the Council of State – I believe that one is in very, very dangerous ways. As I said, those who want to lose the most are not the government, but the free debate and opinion. Here, too, right must be a little bit of principle and not just jump around like populists. Then, for example: The health director and the education director went out and said that from their professional point of view it would be beneficial for large municipalities in Norway, took it ten seconds before the Right was in the media and honoured this wise, sensible play, all of which is a little off the lines of the obvious professional competence of the health director and education director. Yes, wasn't it an advantage that it illuminated the debate, or should they have had a mouth basket in this area? Please create some fundamental clarifications at this point, otherwise we will have problems with the management system. And to repeat the point, it's not the government that will lose on this, but the public debate and the opposition the most. So until the broader rug that Hill-Jensen pulls up, and that's very, very important -- I agree. The farming industry is a large and important industry in Norway with around 20 000 persons employed and contributes not least to business life in the districts, not least in areas that are otherwise among the more economically poor in Norway. Breeding and aquaculture are also a trademark of Norway. I remember being in South France once, and when it was Spaghetti Norvegiénne, it was spaghetti with Norwegian salmon, and when it was Pizza Norvegiénne, it was pizza with Norwegian salmon. There are few Norwegian brands in the food sector, hardly anyone else, that are in line with salmon. So this is important for Norwegian profiling and for working life and employment in Norway and also for income creation. It is also an industry – which I also agree with Bakke-Jensen – that has made significant progress. One obvious example is the use of antibiotics, which have fallen dramatically compared to what it was at the height of the 1980s. But at the same time, there is an industry where you still find excuses for not doing anything about a problem, rather than a resolute willingness to do something about it. I've challenged the industry many times, and I repeat it here: take the same setting as the industry came to once in the 1970s. Then there was a strong public opinion that pushed the industry to take the environmental problems seriously. It was a big deal and a government – and internationally – as regulated industry. The industry stopped finding excuses for not doing anything about industrial pollution, but using its creative capacity and creativity, and the unimaginable momentum in the industry, to solve the problems. The reality is that today industrial pollution is not a problem to talk about in the western part of the world – because of the combination of opinion and state regulation, and the creativity and energy that lie in the industry itself. This should also be the guide for the farming industry – spending time and effort not to find a professor somewhere in the world who may doubt that there are real environmental problems in the industry, but to address the problems and solve them one by one. Fortunately, many operators in the industry themselves have this attitude. Two days ago, I met Marine Harvest, the largest Norwegian breeding company – I think it is the largest breeding company in the world – and the conversation with them is an expression of exactly this: they want to find technical solutions and address environmental problems and solve them – not to find reasons why you have to sit still and wait. I'm asking Storting's drag help to put pressure on the industry that makes them solve the problems. There are then three issues that need to be solved, as it says today – of course, other environmental problems can arise in the future: salmonmus, escape and the immediate emissions from installations. Many of these questions can be solved, for example: in the case of closed sea installations. It will take time to develop them, but industry — e.g. Marine Harvest - is about to see if you can get a good deal further in the development of the fish in enclosed facilities, and then put it out. This will have an impact on, for example: the danger of escape. So that's this pressure for these technological solutions I'm looking for. The main problem is leaching and escape. The presence of salmonnus in Norwegian rivers is worrying. It is infected from the farms. Overall, there is a decrease in salmonnus — as a percentage of the mass — but, of course, as long as there is an increasing biomass in the plants, the risk of wild salmon and trout being infected from the plants increases. A number of measures have been taken in cooperation with the industry itself, including: new laxine regulation, coordinated lice treatment, zones for coordinated set-aside, research on sterile fish, and a number of other measures that may help to reduce the salmon unproblematicity. The second major problem is escape. There is a significant element of escaped farmed salmon in Norwegian rivers. It can contribute to the genetic degeneration of the salmon strains, and we want to fight it. Again, many actors in the industry themselves say that yes, this is a problem that we will share in combating. Of course, many actors in the industry are also disappointed by the difficult escapes that we have seen in the last year and that do not belong anywhere. At the moment you get a safety culture in this industry, which you have in some other industries, of course this kind of big escape will be to avoid. So it's taking care of the problems and solving those that are the way forward – not finding reasons why you shouldn't. Finally, on nutrient salts, which is what Bakke-Jensen asks: there are significant emissions of nutrient salts from farming plants. There is still no clear consensus on the extent of this problem, i.e. how high in the masses of water can be found in the nutrient salts, but a medium sized Norwegian farming plant has emissions of nutrient salts similar to a city of about one city. 50,000 inhabitants. It is unreasonable to impose substantial costs on all other industries in order to reduce the discharge of nutrient salts, while not addressing the problem in the same way by the farming industry. The breeding industry has higher nutrient emissions than the land-based industry and municipal waste streams combined. To conclude, to answer one of Hille-Jensen's questions: what we are looking for is an equal regulation of all emissions, so that we do not receive a special treatment for any type of emissions, but an equal regulation of all emissions of nutrients at sea, whether from agriculture, from sewage, from other industrial activities or from the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e221	When the Council of State meets us in debate, he has his own ability to twist things and to demand that the Right should be more principled in the debate. The big mistake he makes this time is that he accuses us of doing what we accuse him of doing. Sometimes, in relation to the interpellation debate, you could imagine having another 10 minutes, so you could keep the whole article back and open by asking the Council of State to listen. For now, the Council of State may have heard a little of what I said. The big problem, as I mentioned here, is how you communicate the facts. I point out the same problem as the Council of State points out. I say that if you don't care how the state agencies present facts, you kill some of the voices in the debate, and then you don't get the diversity of opinions that both the Right and the Council of State demand, and that both the Right and the Council of State think are important. When you have state agencies that use this kind of method in their communication – like the Clif press release, which is not clear on the facts at all – you prevent the many voices in the debate, and so you prevent a fact-based debate from taking place. So the Council of State draws a picture of what it really should be, which is very similar to what Right wants. He just can't do it. So to some of the questions I asked in my post, which he skipped. When Clif believes that the industry should develop clear requirements for environmental impact, clear requirements for acceptable pollution, I asked: Is it not true that Clif is preparing this type of requirement? Should each actor consider what is acceptable environmental impact? And in relation to the legislation adopted, is it not more right for Clif – and not the actors – to set concrete, measurable environmental targets for the influence of the recipient? Then I asked the question: why does a government agency need to use instruments such as the press release from Clif to get to grips with the debate? Is it not an image that this debate is a little skeptical? Is it not an image that we do not get the votes, as we want to have the votes in the debate? I believe that the Council of State and the Right have the same objectives, and I see that the Council of State and the Right are drawing up the same wishes for what the debate should be like. It's my honest and sincere opinion that the Council of States has a piece to go to create the climate that makes us get the good opinions, get the evidence-based knowledge for the good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e234	I am pleased to hear that the Right and I share the same opinion in this area, namely that – and not just allow, but encourage – different professional establishments in the country to come up with their best professional assessment. Then the politicians have to, i.e. The government and the Storting, of course, make the overall choices about what of this you want to focus on. I'm glad to hear that, but there have been so many examples that the Right is going out with frontal attacks on the state levels that do that, when you don't like what you hear, but are very happy for state institutions that do, when you like what you hear, that I still allow myself to ask for a certain principleal position here, because in principle to welcome statements you agree with, but would put a mouthpiece in terms of statements you don't agree with, is not a principle for me. If I can mention some examples in addition to what I heard here now, the Directorate for Nature Management has come up with statements that have been disapproved. Then there has been a demand that I bring a mouthpiece – it was perhaps from the Advancement Party and not the Right. When you didn't like the stuff the ricksantikvar said, you would put the oral basket on the ricksantikvar. But when the national antiquities criticise the government for not giving enough money to cultural memory protection, it's of course a statement you like to hear, and it's therefore right and important that the national antiquities come along. There has to be a certain degree of principled attitude to this, if it's going to work. I repeat that my perception of the right thing – but there are shared opinions about it in many places in the state apparatus – is that the professional agencies should have the freedom to give their views, because it enriches the public debate, and it ensures that we do not make mistakes. The more you reconcile the professional debate, the more there is one official view, the greater the chance of doing wrong. But if we agree on this, I hope that we will later get positive statements from the Right when the professional floors come up with views, even if there are things that are not exactly at that point that fit into the Right Frame. Then I understand that there is some criticism that a press release has been sent out. Of course, one can always discuss the wording of a press release, but if the public agencies are not to be able to send out a press release, they will not be able to make their views public. It is considered an important part of the public that they come out with their eyesight. Sometimes they come out with it in reports that go the internal path, but sometimes they have to participate in public debate, for example. by means of a press release — not debate in the sense of handicrafts, but in the best way to present their professional views for the assessment of magnificence, government and the general public. I would like to end by saying, yes, we want what Bakke-Jensen says, and regulating emissions and measurable environmental requirements for the industry and for other actors that emit nutrients is an important way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e247	Breeding salmon is the nearest brand to Norway. It's been a while since the breeding adventure started. In fact, over 40 years have passed since the first Norwegian pioneers were happy to release the first salmon moths in merdan. Breeding is an important industry for Norway and contributes to both export income, activity and employment. Breeding is also not a small industry anymore, as the minister also mentioned, for every day it is exported ten million meals – it is a serious amount. While we are laying good framework conditions, including for this industry, we must include the environmental aspect in it. All farms are required to carry out regular environmental studies during the installation. Breeders shall also carry out a risk assessment of the impact of the activity on the environment around the plant. These are the requirements Clif's supervisory action showed that the breeders had not followed up well enough. The Minister for the Environment pointed out that the supervisory action and the over-fertilisation report deal with different problem options, and that their results do not in any way strike each other in their entirety, as I understand it. I also have that view of these reports. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department is working on a number of measures, including: new leaches regulation, co-ordinate leachate treatment and set-aside zones and to release fish. The maximum number of fish in quails is another measure, and we haven't joined the production increase, apart from Troms and Finnmark, due to the salmon problem. This is good, but probably not enough. The Labour Party fraction was in Ålesund last week and visited a number of probing companies and businesses. One of them runs with research, among other things on salmon diseases, and they are happy. They showed good results. A new large project, funded by the Research Council, has also recently been undertaken to strengthen knowledge of the impact of escaped farmed salmon on the wild species. This is important research. I agree with the interpellant that it is crucial that both industry and authorities continue to work to ensure that this important industry for Norway is managed in a knowledge-based and resilient way. The interpellant said that the Right thought it was both important and right to impose stricter environmental requirements on the industry. But concretely what is Right’s solution to the challenges in the aquaculture industry, I couldn’t fully understand – it’s salmonmus and measures against salmonmus and escape, or other. Is one for or against farms? Is one for or against a production boost? Is one in favour of or against the principle that vereaders pay, including in this field? If the industry itself is in favour or against having the right fee, are we going to charge fees, or how are we going to attack it? The commercial salt from farming accounts for only a few percent of the total amount of commercial salt transported along the coast of Norway with the coastal stream. But the alarming thing is that output from farming is larger than emissions from land-based industry and municipal waste streams combined. Anyway, it's very much. Research on how to turn the nutrient salt from being waste to being a resource, e.g. as fertilisers, will be innovation and innovation and a good way to attack it. It is gratifying that the farming industry itself, among other things, are testing various types of closed installations. This technology will be able to address several environmental challenges in the industry: both the escape of salmon, the spread of salmon and the release of nutritive salts are easier to control in closed installations. On the other hand, if we're going to have these closed installations on land, we're going to lose our comparative advantage, which is that the fjord cleans itself, and that we don't need a lot of electricity to get through the plant and to switch water, for example. Knowledge-based solutions and research are also important in this industry. It is therefore gratifying that research has gained such a significant increase under the red-green government. What the industry itself should contribute, and in what way, is the input that I expect is that we get a lot of in connection with it notifying the maritime food message. I look forward to a lot of advice and a lot of input around the country to get good, long-term framework conditions for the industry within the industry. Finally, I will show the sustainability strategy for the aquaculture industry as a good document and a good lease.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e275	The issue of Norwegian aquaculture has negative effects in fjord and coastal areas, has been discussed for a long time, and at times the inconsistency has been very great in the various research environments. Claims and debts about knowledge-free and environmentally damaging behaviour on a general basis have also unfortunately been seen in this debate. It was therefore easy for many operators in the aquaculture sector to find that a report from an expert group of the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture, in consultation with the Ministry of the Environment, concluded very clearly that dietary salt discharges from aquaculture do not have a negative impact on water quality in Norwegian fjords. At the same time, however, one finds that the Climate and Pollution Directorate, in a broad-based press release, states that fish farmers lack environmental knowledge. They further list a set of expectations for breeders. One thing is that fact-based management of an industry as important as agriculture is being harmed, as such processes are not at all capable of providing neither politicians nor others with a sound factual basis for decision-making, but the harm the aquaculture industry is doing in its opinion is equally important to be aware of. We all know the importance of this industry for employment and activity in nutrient-poor coastal areas, as well as the large export revenues to the community. Unfortunately, this is less concentrated in a society that is almost engulfed in huge petroleum revenues. It would then be more constructive if all public actors and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Directorate of Climate and Pollution would join forces with the industry more closely and look at the challenges one faces, and become a few on solutions to underpin the image of a marine industry producing the world's purest and most high-quality product. For no one is lit by the fact that a community's supervisory authorities are nearly acting on each of their levels with little coordination and to the detriment of themselves and a very important industry. This is about busy workers along the coast, who have built up an industry that alone provides 12 million seafood meals every day. I heard that the representative Heggø said 10 million barrels. The most up-to-date is actually 12 million barrels today. They'd rather have a pat on their shoulders for their contribution to food on all these millions of barrels. But all major nutritionists must accept to be the subject of a critical searchlight and demands from many holders. The marine industry is no exception and must ensure that it operates in a way that is accepted by the environment. The problem of salmonellosis is widely debated and important to be monitored. Escape is also a major problem, and a problem that the Progress Party also believes is unacceptable. If one is willing to go into the petroleum industry and look at the quality requirements and HMS requirements a set there, the aquaculture industry has a part to learn from the escape problem, which I again underline is unacceptable. In the case of criticism, he must be factual and documented, so that one can put a critical search light on the solutions rather than cultivating the problems. So the Environment Minister mentions this with lakselus, and he made a factual error. Lace do not exist in the river. They are found in fjords, but not in fresh water. Finally, some point of view that the Progress Party was referred to as one of the dissimilar views of the public actors. The Directorate of Natural Management was named. That's right. The party of progress was out criticising the Directorate of Natural Management Janne Sollie in the light of her view that the marine industry should be halved. It's not about professional assessment, it's about politics and nothing else. And it's not the directorate's workspace.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e294	There is no doubt that Norwegian farming is facing major challenges. They have in their short history constantly had to handle it. But they have actually carried out an industrial revolution in development, also within market knowledge, production, export and knowledge of the wide and wide, which really deserves great respect. This industry had earned a greater political reward than is witnessed today. You forget that this is an industry that has a production of about 1 million. tonnes. I feel that the Council of State is completely underestimating the effects of the statements that come from the state's own directorate, who is constantly being allowed to attack an industry that is going to survive in a complicated market. This is an industry with a production that is up to four to five times the size of Norwegian agriculture in meat production, which has managed to bring down antibiotic consumption and is now between 0 and 1 pst. of the total consumption of antibiotics in Norway. I feel like the Council of State doesn't take the interpellant seriously. He's talking about the right now repracticing populist statements. That's not what this interpellation is about. We're in line with all the other political parties that want to get away from escape, and get clear, professional applications of the salmon-puzzle effect on the wild axis in relation to the production of farmed salmon, etc. But this is an industry that is going to survive in the market, in an international market, and that has approx. 95 pst. exports. If we have a government council that doesn't understand that this industry is going to live on a reputation in the market, I think it's time for the government to take a time-out in the closet and ask yourself if you really serve the coast. There are 20,000 jobs, it's invested, there's 1,000 farms around the country, there's over 220 set-aside farms in the country, and there's a high-ranking food producer who's going to live on his reputation. Then one cannot have such a relaxed attitude as to the way the public being communicates, which the Council of State is now laying its hand over and accepting today. Nor is this to live with for an industry that does its utmost to try to be even better on both its reputation and on its own environmental vignette. If you accept that these beings – Clif and the Directorate of Nature Management, who want to halve this industry – will still be allowed to operate in free dressage, this will carry a wrong place. If the Council of State instead of answering anything other than what the interpellant asks about, rather does a conversation with these beings, which are his own instruments, it will serve both the Norwegian farming industry, the market situation and the political image of this whole industry, which we at least verbally want to support more than what we seem to be doing, because it bears the mark of being to the degrees of half-hearted follow-up of this industry. It cannot be that communication is allowed to be so unprecise, that this image – this vignette – will be allowed to go back to the Norwegian export industry in particular, and especially in the case of Norwegian farmed trout, salmon and other products that are subsequently coming. I just repeat that we're going to be critical, we're going to have strict requirements, and we're going to have our bold goals and set a standard for the industry, which is going to survive in the market. I think the industry is very aware that there is Norwegian farmed salmon and farmed trout reputation in the market that is their best selling property, but then we can't have it like that the most important being who affords government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, is repeatedly allowed to repeat their message that this is an industry that lacks environmental knowledge. It is not very motivating for those who are going into a market dominated by the financial crisis and who are going to fight for market shares every day to have the drudgery from a department that should have bolder objectives in terms of guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e307	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising the debate on the management of Norwegian aquaculture. As the interpellant had in mind, it is important that management has a common understanding of the environmental challenges of the farming industry. It is also an interesting difference that this time it is the Minister for the Environment who sits in the Chamber, not the Minister for Fisheries. Fisheries and aquaculture are essential for the creation of value added and employment along our coasts. I have said this before, and I would like to repeat that the Christian People's Party wants a strong farming industry in Norway. Environmentally sustainable farming is fully feasible, and Norway has all the prerequisites to ensure that this farming industry is world-leading in the environment. Sustainability is a prerequisite for Norway to be the world leader in maritime food exports and to contribute to increasing coastal value creation. Economic sustainability must go hand in hand with environmental sustainability, which requires long-term structural changes in the regulation of the farming industry. In 2009, the government put forward a sustainability strategy focusing on five main areas where the farming industry affects the environment: genetic impact and escape, disease, pollution and emissions, land use and the use of feed. These five main areas have been problem areas since the start-up of the farming industry, and after 40 years of operation it is now time to change. It has to be a priority problem to solve these problems. It is therefore positive to see that where the government failed, the industry itself took hold. In the summer, the Land Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture, FHL, presented a series of measures to combat salmon and escape. Among other things, industry commits itself to disease reduction measures, increased reporting of lice problems and more research and development. This shows that the industry is interested in addressing the challenges facing the industry and should be seen as a signal to us politicians that they want to take responsibility, want to be held accountable. So I want to give the government credit for the input into reducing the biomass in the mermaids, but the question that then comes out is how number of mermaids, and consequently area, needs to be increased in order to maintain the total biomass in the industry. I should like to hear what the government thinks about it. I believe that a number of concrete measures need to be taken to ensure a sustainable salmon farming industry. Major breeding units and more exposed sites require the development of new knowledge, improved technology and more robust operations to master the lice situation in future salmon farming. More money needs to be allocated for research and development, in particular for the development of demonstration facilities for closed systems at sea, or facilities with an equivalent level of safety. The Christian People's Party also calls for a plan for transition to this type of installation by 2020. Closed systems can help reduce the problems of escape and disease and parasite spread and address both the development of nutrition and the need for an environmentally sustainable farming industry. Future capacity increase may, for example: are reserved for those operating closed installations or installations with an equivalent level of safety. Such facilities are already operating in China and Canada. In 2011, the export value was only 29,2 billion salmon. kr. Therefore, the breeding industry should be able to afford the necessary measures to ensure that it is environmentally friendly, is based on renewable resources and can contribute to coastal value creation in Norway for many years to come. The Christian People's Party believes that binding environmental measures are essential both to ensure the sustainable and profitable production of the farming industry in the long term and to preserve the wild and sea trout in Norway. It is then essential that the legislation is clear, and not least that the administration be coherent and clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e330	The interpellant captures a theme and a conflict axis that is not unknown to this venue. Marine nutrition is a major and important nourishment for our country, and at the same time, like many other industries, a footprint on the environment. Our responsibility as politicians in this room, and otherwise, is to find the right tools, the right balance, to ensure that this industry can develop within a viable framework. To do that, we need knowledge. We need the experience-based knowledge, and we need research that can be evaluated and collated, so that we can have the best possible basis for decision. Then we're going to demand, of course, that that knowledge be communicated in a neat way. At the same time, knowledge is crucial for us, and we can emphasize it differently in this room from different political standpoints, but we cannot deny that it exists. Then it's neat to go in and correct what might be of mistakes or delusions, or clarify knowledge up to other knowledge that we have. The administration and the state authorities' responsibilities are to respond to decisions by political authorities, to exercise control over the mission of political governance and to do so with the best available knowledge. In my view, the creation of knowledge and the setting of the agenda are increasingly up to the freedom of research, our knowledge institutions, but it will also be knowledge that will benefit the administration and political governance in turn. The Government Declaration states that Norway shall become the foremost maritime state and shall facilitate further growth in the aquaculture industry within viable frameworks. This means that, as a nation, we should be at the forefront of knowledge in areas such as sustainable resource use, the marine environment, climate, product development and the market. Marine industries play a major role along the coast, but they also face challenges such as: Leaktus and escape. It is therefore important that the measures identified by the government in its strategy for aquaculture are followed up. We're also, from the Center Party's side, busy stressing the great value creation that this industry has contributed to the country. We're talking about a 2010 value of 33.4 billion. kr – 10 pst. of exports from mainland Norway and 20,000 jobs around our country. It's undoubtedly an important industry. Then one of the government's governments has also shown what conditions are being set for growth in the farming industry. This is that the lice level e.g. must be within the limits accepted by the authorities, that the development of resistance must be under control and that the measures taken otherwise to reduce the problems must be effective. It must be possible to take on knowledge and yet give credit for the efforts that have been made in the industry to precisely reduce these problems, but at the same time be clear that the requirements and expectations that exist in the industry are established, whether they relate to resistant salmon and escape. The centre part is occupied by further developing both the seafood and the salmon tourism industry. It is a well-known matter that these two industries are set up against each other. We believe that dialogue, cooperation and clear demands from the government are the right way to go. We have to recognise the responsibility we have to take care of the wild. It's an international responsibility that we're obliged to. There is also great value creation in that industry. At the same time, we need to be able to facilitate that dialogue and the way in which these two industries can have a good co-existence. Then there is knowledge and experience in achieving good political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e349	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the interpellant for trying – I repeat to try – to launch a debate on a very important area of breeding, and what signals you send to the industry. The interpellant has done its best to get a debate going, to get more information and to lift it into this room. The answer is an attempt to push responsibility back to the representative, who is trying to get the debate started, and no response at all. I'll try to get into a few themes. Norwegian farming is a success story. It is a success story that began with the first successful release of fish in 1971 — just over 40 years ago. Since then, this has grown into a billion-dollar export industry for Norway. Some have also requested that the industry should contribute more. What's interesting is that the farming industry is an industry that produces food. We have a number of industries that produce food in Norway, but the farming industry is actually a successful industry, also an economic one – even paying for its marketing abroad. In addition, when MTB was increased, the maximum amount of biomass allowed in Troms and Finnmark, extra payments were required to allow it to produce a little more food. When you are granted concessions, you have to pay million to be allowed to participate and produce food in Norway. I dare to see which other industries in Norway produce food, which in fact have to pay million in concession to be allowed to start producing food. I haven't seen a single claim for the agricultural industry in the context that if you want the x number of dekars, you're going to pay $10 million. kr. I think that debate we're never going to experience in this room. There has been a tremendous development from the beginning of 1971 to the present day, and hopefully we will have an even greater growth in the future, because we know that the earth's population is increasing, and we know that much of the food production that has to happen then has to happen through growth in the sea. When we look at the different wild fish resources that we have, it is quite obvious that in waters other than Norwegian, there are significant overfishing and major problems associated with many populations. It's quite obvious that breeding is going to have to grow to provide the growing population of the world with food. In terms of medication and that piece, we've seen that it's gone down considerably. When I was studying fishing at the beginning of the 1990s, we were just concerned about how to get out of the vicious circle, and how to get an even more healthy diet related to the fish, and there's very little medication for fish today. In fact, you have come so far that you can vaccinate the fish against some diseases. What's strange in this case is just the way these directorates act. I think it is positive that we have a debate, and we are going to have a debate, but then you have to stop getting a press release system like that, where you send out a press release with the background that you represent it and that directorate, and you are concluding in your text. Instead of debating this in the open landscape, a press release is being sent out where you can conclude. One has a director of the Directorate of Nature Management who goes out and says that salmon industry should be halved. You're not willing to look at other possibilities. I would like to refer to NOW 1999:9 For salmon for all can no one do? – the so-called Rieber-Mohn Committee. It also pointed out a part related to the relationship between wild species and farming. They recommended that in areas that could be exposed to just genetic interference in the rivers, one should look at the possibility of giving clean trout concessions, because the rainbow trout that we use in breeding today cannot reproduce with the wild salmon. But you've gone away from that. The ear can also be produced where you have a higher element of brackish water, i.e. that the lice level will also be very low, because salmon lice will not thrive in fresh water and then release the fish. The industry itself has also implemented a number of measures, such as joint exhausting and stronger technical requirements at the plants, but it is utopian to believe that we can pinch and say that we should be able to have closed installations. But what can be successful is to reduce the number of months that the fish are standing in the sea, just so that the view of fish to the sea, which comes from the rivers, can let go through luxuriant water. That's where we have to put the measures in place, not just ruin the debate, but create a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e367	First, I have to thank for the contributions to the interpellation, which for me is an important interpellation, and which raises an important issue. It was intended to address the principle of how the debate goes and how the state agencies participate in this debate. We might have partly succeeded. I am very pleased that the Council of States had to use the Progress Party as an example of the Right having stepped over the principal line, because I am very safe on two feet in relation to the fact that we have a proper principle approach to this debate. It's not like in the absence of arguments we have to jump out and find scapegoats in the state apparatus. I don't have any problems with government agencies sending out press releases, but sometimes I can struggle with the wording and the way the message is formulated, so it's been the short message in this interpellation. It must be allowed to look at how to participate in the public debate. It is not that this interpellation debate is about whether the Right is for or against the Salmon. The right hand side is essentially for the salmonnus. It's part of the creation, and it's going to be there, but it's going to be there to the extent we need it. Nor do I mention in this debate whether the Right is in favour of or in favour of growth in production. All we have said is that this increase in production should be based on ecological sustainability. I have not registered that there is someone against it. We have questioned whether the increase in production should be regulated in relation to the market, which is happening today, but it is another part of a completely different debate. In short, we believe that the Council of State is responsible for the participation of state votes in the debate in a civilised manner, with the reasons I mentioned earlier. It is important for the Right that we get all the voices out of the debate – there is no one to be bored about. The way the state council operates today, we believe that we do not get the fact-based, good debate that we need. To say that with the nursery party SV, I believe that the council has sent the floors out in free play. The defense party on the right believes that there is a greater degree of closed order that is needed in order for us to go the straight path to the good goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e378	In spite of a small amount of words, the debate has shown that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget – a broad consensus that has been shared by many – on the importance of the farming industry for Norway. It was discussed whether there were ten or twelve million dishes that were served every day – however, there are very many. It's 20,000 employees, it's an incredibly important industry, and it's a great success story. It may be the largest industrial success story in Norway in the last few decades. There is also a consensus that one has done a lot to address several of the most important environmental problems, not least a reduction in the use of antibiotics has been drastic, and many other environmental problems have also been addressed. There is also agreement that important environmental problems remain: salmonmus – yes, it is part of the creation, but there are some parts of the creation we want to have a certain limited quantity of, I think the Right and Government agree – escape and the immediate environmental impact on the seabed just below as a result of nutrient salts and possibly that those nutrients spread in fjord systems. All of these must be encouraged to take hold of the industry. I agree with Mr Nesvik and others that this must be done in dialogue with industry. It is true that many actors in the industry themselves want to do so, but there are also voices in the industry that spend time and energy to find explanations as to why nothing should be done. I have attended a series of conferences with the industry in recent years. We have frequent meetings. I'm recording both of these voices. I want to give power, authority and support to those in the industry who want to address the problem, not to those who want to postpone the problem. Here we also have a theme that has been discussed by many, namely reputation. Yes, it's a reputation when discussing problems in a business, but I'm absolutely sure that the most important reputation factor is if people see a business that has done a lot of good, but that then takes care of its problems and solves them one by one. If people see such a nourishment, it's easy to create a good reputation. I agree with Oskar J. Grimstad that we should have a fact-based approach. I said that the farming industry can learn a lot from the industry – yes, but we can also learn a lot from the oil industry, which has a much stricter safety culture than the one that has been in the farming industry to date. The aviation industry is another area – to mention an industry where safety has been so overwhelming for everything you do, that you have a fantastic safety culture. There were 700 deaths in the world's air traffic last year, and it's caused by a continuous safety culture at all stages. What we disagree about is the state level. The press release sent out by the Climate and Pollution Directorate is a sober review of the outcome of a survey. It must be beneficial for it to come out ‘in open air’. The marine industry can react. The opposition and the opinion are given access to this information, it shall not be an enclosed part of a system. I will continue to defend the right of the courts to provide the public with evidence-based, good knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e398	That being the case, it is no. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e414	It's nice that there are so many here when we're going to discuss this important topic. The natural diversity is the core wall on which people build society and economy. Robust ecosystems, with a wide variety of species and genes, ensure access to food, clean water and the natural resources we use to build houses and provide energy. They provide experiences and quality of life and are an important part of the culture of many different societies. In Norway, we are equipped with a varied nature and a variety of forms of life it is important to take care of. The ecosystem of the world's diversity of species provides countless and essential services. It is therefore essential that we manage biodiversity in a sustainable way. Biodiversity is, among other things: an important genetic library for our main food plants. These plants are developed from a few very productive species. If important food plants were to be threatened by e.g. disease or climate change, it is important that there is a library of wild plants from which we can produce new species, thus avoiding a serious fall in food production. The services we receive from the world's ecosystems are therefore innumerable and vital. Natural diversity is the wide variety of species, genetic diversity and habitat types that together form the pieces of these vital ecosystems. Human beings have a fundamental responsibility to manage nature. We have a duty to preserve our basis of life in such a way that we hand over the globe to our descendants in at least as good a condition as when we took it. Nature must therefore be managed with respect, on its own merits. Nature's diversity has been developed naturally over a long period of time and through the influence of civilization. It is an important task to take care of the diversity of nature for future generations. In the opinion of the Right, this is best done through a combination of protection and sustainable use. Art diversity has changed throughout the history of the earth. Species have disappeared, changed, and new ones have emerged. This is a natural part of the evolution of life forms. This is why, among other things, it disappeared. The dinosaurs 65 million years ago, and a number of other species have disappeared as a result of their failure to adapt to changing living conditions on earth. This development has always happened, and will continue. What is serious is the extinction of species that are not part of the natural evolution of life forms on earth, but that are in addition as a result of human activity, and are in progress at a much faster pace. This extinction of species is what we have to stop. However, although there are different perceptions of the speed with which species are eradicated, it is important that measures are put in place to preserve species diversity. Through the Convention on Biological Diversity, the world community has agreed to halt the eradication of species, and under this Convention, the country of the world of Nagoya agreed in 2010 on a strategic plan to achieve this objective by 2020. The Aichi targets are a plan consisting of 20 targets. The Convention is important, but the most important thing is how to follow it up at home in order to achieve its objectives. Many of the targets will be demanding to achieve in Norway without significant changes in current policies, and they confront us with a number of dilemmas and potential conflicts. If we are to take care of endangered species, preferably large natural areas should be left untouched. At the same time, in a modern society, there is a need for infrastructure such as roads and railways that affect untouched nature and make new areas available to human civilization. An important tool to address natural diversity is the Nature Diversity Act adopted by the Stortinget in spring 2009. It provides a common framework, principles and rules for the sustainable use and protection of natural diversity. However, the right believes that it was unfortunate that the government kept sea areas outside the law by not including Norwegian territorial seas outside of 12 nautical miles from the coast. There is also a need for a tool in these areas, as is the nature diversity law. Nature and wildlife located outside the 12-mile zone are potentially as valuable as those within that limit. Many endangered species and important habitats, such as the cold-water coral reefs, are outside the land area of Norway and therefore outside the scope of the Nature Diversity Act. If we are to take care of endangered species, we must take care of the habitats of these species. Here the forest is the most important thing. 60 pst. of all Norwegian species and 50 pst. red list species live in forests and some forest types are also on the red list. A NINA report concludes that there is a need to protect 4.6 pst. of Norwegian forests. This is a big challenge. The right considers it important to protect forests in order to preserve biodiversity, and in our alternative state budgets in recent years we have proposed more funds for forest conservation than the government has proposed. Still, it's a long way to go before we reach a goal of protecting 4.6 pst. of the Norwegian forest area. That what is missing most is the protection of low-lying high-productive, rich forests in south-east Norway, does not make the challenge less, as these forests are also most valuable to the forestry industry. In the opinion of the Right, it is important that we avoid conflict with the forest industry in our efforts to preserve our most valuable forest areas. I want to pay tribute to the forest industry because it generally takes environmental responsibility and operates within the framework of the conservation of important natural areas. Nature values in Norway have been developed and taken care of through careful local use, including from the forest industry. That is why we reacted when, in the Ministry of the Environment's 2012 budget proposal, there were some formulations that suspected forestry. On further questions, we were fortunately confirmed by the department that this was not the case. If we're going to get on with the protection work, we're going to have to play with the forestry industry. It is therefore important to continue with the line proposed by the Bondevik II government that voluntary protection should be a key strategy in the protection work. However, this could result in considerable expenditure on the State budget — not least to protect forests with a high alternative value. Today, budget appropriations — and not lack of valuable land provided by the forestry industry — are the main limitation on the protection of larger areas. At the same time, good monitoring is important, providing a good and complete overview of the location of the most biologically valuable sites. Some important and valuable forest areas are naturally protected. By being physically difficult to access for forestry, they have developed naturally and are the habitat of a number of valuable species. The environmental movement has for a long time pointed to the support for the construction of forest roads and forestry in difficult terrain, making species-rich forests available to the max. and extensions and fragmentation of areas. In the last 20 years, roads to agriculture and forestry have been the main cause of loss of untouched nature. There are 48 000 km of forest roads and 50 000 km of tractor roads in Norway – then I am not taking the highways – and it is longer than the public road network. The Bondevik II government removed subsidies for forest roads, so that areas that were naturally inaccessible to forestry would still be. Unfortunately, today's government has reintroduced this environmentally harmful subsidy. The removal of subsidies for unprofitable forest roads is an environmental measure that costs nothing, but on the contrary both pays off financially and serves the environment. Another dilemma is that forest protection may conflict with other important environmental objectives, such as reducing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere. Wood used as materials in house construction will bind CO2 for many years to come. Instead, if we are to cut, but let the forest rot, it will provide important habitats for many endangered species. But at the same time, forests that decay will emit CO2 and thus contribute to the climate challenge. Quick-growing citadels can bind large amounts of CO2, but at the same time this is a foreign species where we do not know the consequences for biodiversity if we allow it to spread uncontrollably in new areas. Protection may also provide the basis for conflicts between central and local authorities. The right considers that it is important to combine protection in terms of local economic development and living conditions. We need to ensure local anchoring and support for the protection work in order to obtain legitimacy in the population. It is necessary to increase the ability of local authorities in municipalities with a high level of protection to influence their own development. When different state or county authorities carry out their primary responsibilities, the total area may become difficult for individual municipalities. After decades of natural areas being managed through largely precautionary local use, protection/land use is seen in several places in the country as a conflict area between local authorities and central authorities. This applies in particular to municipalities with large protected areas, which at the same time are characterised by relocation and want active local business development in order to create new jobs and be attractive for relocation. Therefore, while ensuring that valuable natural areas are protected, it is important to provide opportunities for local economic development that does not conflict with the objective of protection. Another issue is how to know if the targets have been met. It is estimated that today there are 1.6 million different species on earth, most of which are insects. It's not easy to measure the state of all of these. All of this provides dilemmas that I hope the Council of State can help to shed light — at least in part — during this debate. How does the Council of State see the Nagoya plan to be fulfilled in Norway, what dilemmas does he see that we are meeting in this work, and what action and concrete plans does he think he needs to take to meet the commitments that Norway made in the autumn of 2010 and thus ensure the diversity of species in Norway for future generations? I think we can agree that it won't be easy. The more important it is to take the debate on how to do it, and how best to balance the importance of further development of civilisation with the need to preserve biodiversity. I look forward to a constructive change of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e477	Let me first thank Nikolai Astrup for a very important interpellation. Let me say that something relaxes the attendance of Stortinget rather reflects the fundamental problem that our children and grandchildren do not have the right to vote. At least it's not the importance of the theme that you can measure on the number of faces that follow the debate. There are three important and very crucial reasons why we have to take care of the natural diversity. Let me call this first philosophical/religious reason: who are we? Are we the generation that has the right to destroy large parts of the globe and thus the basis of life for future generations? The second is the relationship in nature: by destroying, killing, eradicating a species, it often has very significant consequences for other species that depend on one species. The third ratio is: there's also an economic dimension in this. Many species may prove to have economic significance, such as food, medicine or whatever it may be, for humans, that you do not know today. And what's eradicated will be much harder to use in the future. Natural diversity is lost at a high pace. Every tenth animal and plant species on Earth can be history in 25 years, according to some researchers. Others even talk about the danger of a mass extinction of species, a parallel to the one that happened when the dinosaurs died out 65 million years ago, or even greater mass extinctions, which have been in the past. The biggest single threat to species is the disappearance of species habitats. In Indonesia we see the disappearance of the orangutan's habitats as a result of logging, and finally there are no areas left where it can live unless something is done. Other threats include climate change, overharvest, pollution and the spread of alien organisms. Most of these actions are not done by the evil of anyone, but it is the sum of many individual actions — often individual actions with good, honest and real motives — that threaten nature. For 60 pst. of the ecosystems are the values of the services we get, now weakened according to the UN report Global Biodiversity Outlook. The nature index for Norway from 2010 shows that the state of Norwegian nature is basically good, that it is mainly improving, but with some significant exceptions. One main reason for it to improve is that industrial pollution is a dramatically reduced problem. The joyous thing that happened in Nagoya during the summit was that the UN and the world agreed on a new global goal, namely to stop the loss of natural diversity by 2020. This was called the Aichi Goals, after the province where the great city of Nagoya lies. That's the goal in 20 points. The interpellant asks what the government will do to put these into life. Let me then go through some of the main objectives, but of course the most important thing is that we will make a national action plan in line with the Nagoya Protocol to develop a new policy in this area in close dialogue with the main sectors concerned, such as agriculture, industry, fisheries, oil, transport, etc. Norwegian environmental policy was evaluated by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in Europe in 2010, and we got a steady review. We must be said to be among the best. The report also states that forest protection, on which the interpellant was involved, and the protection of priority species and habitats should be further strengthened, and that the nature diversity law, which was very well mentioned, should be better integrated into the various sectors. The Nature Diversity Act is the most important instrument for preserving nature in line with the Nagoya objectives. I also agree with the inter-pellant here that we must have territorial protection, where essential areas are protected in their totality. The greatest threat to nature lies in the unsustainable use of nature in areas outside the protection zones. So achieving a sustainable use of nature in the densely populated areas of Norway is the core task of achieving the Nagoya objectives. One of the Nagoya objectives — the Aichi objectives — is to prevent the eradication of known endangered species by 2020. The Nature Diversity Act makes it possible to take care of them. The five natural habitat types of moats, hake marshes, calcareous lichen forests, hollow oaks and limestone lakes have already gained status as selected natural habitat types. More will come. Eight species have been designated as priority species: dwarf goose, black-tailed paw, esophageal ducks, ereitis, rock-bluewings, honey-flowers, red forested females and dragon-heads. The dragon's head is a very funny example. It's a species found at Oslofjord, where it's an insect that lives on this flower. It exists only in Norway — nowhere else in the world — and it is the interaction between the insect and the flower that makes it unique. The Dragonhead Glacier can only live on the dragonhead of the complicated, amazing wonder of nature. Of course, there are many such examples globally, but we have to take care of the dragon head and the dragon head. Another of the Aichi objectives is to have a better knowledge base on natural diversity by 2020, and knowledge is to be shared and applied. This has been addressed in many different ways in recent years. The natural index launched in 2010 as a follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration provides an overall picture of the state of Norwegian nature and the major ecosystems. Norway is the first country in the world to introduce an official natural index. The next natural index will come in 2015, and we'll be able to measure if the state gets better, or if the state gets worse. Norway has been a strong driver for the deployment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Nature as a parallel to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. We have offered to set up a sub-secretariat for this in Trondheim, and the purpose is to ensure the best international knowledge building and competence in the field of nature as parallel to the climate area, in order to know what it is right to do. The Norwegian Red List of Species and the Red List of Habitats, drawn up by the Art Database, shows the risk of extinction of the different species and nature types and therefore where it is most important to apply measures. A somewhat more controversial measure is the Norwegian blacklist for alien organisms. One can also go and look at organisms that do not have a history in Norway and which have not come naturally to Norway but have often been brought here by humans — not necessarily for evil purposes — in different ways, and what a threat these species may pose to the traditional natural basis in Norway. The work on this blacklist was recently praised in Science Daily, which writes: «First Norway, then the world?» Of course, there is no absolute fascism about what is a foreign organism, as organisms move over time and space, but it is nevertheless worth looking at when the introduction of a new organism, whether natural or human, has drastic consequences for Norwegian nature. That debate will take place, this is an important work. Forest is important, as the interpellant says. The Stoltenberg II government has protected a lot of forest, including important areas such as Trillemarka and Holmvassdalen, but I am pleased to see that Astrup wants to be a driver of more forest protection. We have a greater species wealth in Norway in the forest than, for example, in the mountains, and voluntary forest protection is the most important way forward in the area, as the interpellantan says. I also agree that close dialogue with the forest industry is important here. No one in the Ministry of the Environment believes that forestry is a hopeless industry that needs to be controlled or something similar. It is an important co-player who has done a lot of good, but who, just like the breeding industry that we discussed earlier today, must have a constant pressure and an incentive to do things better. So the Nagoya Decision says that at least 17 pst. land and fresh water shall be protected or protected by effective land-based conservation measures by 2020. In marine and coastal areas, the target is 10 pst. Norway has protected 16 pst. of its land area as national parks or other types of protection areas. So far, most of what is protected has been mountain, while it is in the most productive nature in and around the big cities – people have lived there just because nature was most productive there – we have the greatest threat of species extinction, and that is where it is now most important to get a sustainable use of nature. I also share the view of the inter-pellant that it is important to look at marine protected areas. Norway is a major coastal nation. What sparked the most conflict in Nagoya was the question of genetic resources and yields from genetic resources. There I was also one of the organisers of the agreement that we fortunately got in place, and which now gives the country of origin an opportunity to have income from the use of their own genetic resources. This will apply to Norway, but since we do not have as many genetic resources as countries such as Brazil or Indonesia, it is, of course, a far, far more important right for those countries with the greatest access to genetic resources, perhaps the most for the poorest developing countries in Africa, which have little opportunity to protect themselves by traditional methods. I must also mention that the government has set up a public expert committee on the values of the ecosystem, under the direction of Stein Lier-Hansen. This is to ensure that ecosystems are taken into account in the day-to-day planning of countries and businesses. Let me finish where the interpellant started. What we need more is what we can call the traditional peasant morals, that we view ourselves as societies in the same way that we used to do on a farm: I hand this farm over to my son -- now it's also my daughter, but that's not the way it was in the old days -- I hand over society to the next generation in the same or better condition than when my generation received it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e526	The President may state that this debate is spread internally in the house – and also outside the house – through sound and image. So there are probably more who are following this debate than those who are present in the Chamber. There might be a little bit more in the hall a little bit later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e531	We hope there are many who follow the debate also outside the Chamber. State intervention shows that there is a broad consensus on the intentions in this area. We're all -- I think I can talk on behalf of all the parties in Stortinget -- dedicated to preserving biodiversity in Norway. But it's clear that our children, like the Council of State, are not going to measure us on our good intentions, but on our ability to deliver results. It is very positive that the government will present a national action plan on how to follow up the Aichi objectives. It would have been interesting if he could also say something about when we can expect it to come to Stortinget. We know that it's just a short time for 2020. Like the climate challenge, this is a challenge that needs to be addressed. Governments may not have been so much concerned with the dilemmas that we face every day, whether in businesses, in municipalities or elsewhere, when, at one moment, you have a legitimate desire to create jobs and contribute to development, and on the other hand, you risk doing so at the expense of biodiversity. If he could say a little more about it, I think it would have been good. But what he was into, which is interesting, is that the most important and rich biological diversity is in areas where most people live. This makes it even more difficult to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. The question to the Council of State must also be whether he believes that the government can do more to help enable the municipalities to do much of the job that the municipalities should and should do in this area. So I'm going to go on my own to say that we have a good natural state in Norway. That doesn't mean it can't get any better. That doesn't mean it can't get worse either. Political elections decide that. Finally, I am also pleased that the Council of State agrees with the Right that the forest industry is nothing but a good ally in the fight to care for the diversity of species. We know that very many of the species that are at the top of the list of species that we are going to take care of live in forests. Therefore, it is important that we continue to cooperate with the forest industry and that they take the responsibility that they will take.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e548	The area we're talking about now is one of the areas where it's happened most under the red-green government -- I've been through a series of measures that's been put in place -- but it's also an area where there's got to be further things to do in the future. I think we need more stuff. We need – what should a call it – a more clear political, philosophical stand to be able to create a greater understanding in practice of following the idea that we are leaving the globe to the next generation and future generations in the same state or in an improved state in relation to what it was when we took it – what I call the traditional, good, old, Norwegian peasant morale, which has existed in most other societies as well. Getting the overall perspective out would be a great help, because it is measuring the daily decisions against this type of guideline that will help us. Then we have to have a strong look at how economic and environmental decisions point together. For the biggest problem we have, it is simple that while the profits of destroying nature are usually privatized, the cost of destroying nature is usually socialized. This means that an individual, an enterprise or for that part of a country can have a financial gain from destroying nature, while the costs of it are paid by taxpayers, society as a whole, or future generations. It doesn't make sense at all that in a calculation of costs and disadvantages, you don't include the destruction of nature. The world of bulky examples of how businesses, countries and individuals have destroyed nature for enormous amounts to achieve very small economic gains. A classic example that is often drawn out is shrimp farms in southern Thailand, with enormous ecological consequences and high costs. The gain for those who were driving it was there, but it was very small. In Norway, too, there will be many examples of socialisation of costs and privatisation of profits. One of the purposes of putting this sample down, which is led by Stein Lier-Hansen, is to look at how to get a better interaction between economic and environmental factors. There is also a very good dialogue here, for example. with Storebrand, a large Norwegian company that has shown great interest in this. Local authorities need to be better able to address these challenges. We gave each municipality a kind of responsibility as a follow-up to this. Some municipalities have done nothing about it, a good number of municipalities have done a good job, and some municipalities have done a great deal about it. But it's clear that there's different levels of resources here. Building up environmental competence in municipalities and making it easier for municipalities to lose the environmental competence of the county, county and other state agencies is a crucial issue. In the case of the forestry industry, the ratio becomes the same as for the farming industry and other industries. All industries need pressure to move more and more towards environmental objectives, but this must be done in dialogue with industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e566	It is an important debate that Mr Astrup raises. I also believe that the commitment is greater than what the audience necessarily shows – even if we have to take note that our kind is represented by an individual with different political deformities. The lack is important, as Astrup said. The natural diversity is important, it is important for food, it is important for the natural environment, it is important not least as a genetic library, which was called by the representative, and it is important to preserve it in order to fulfill what is referred to in the old farming tank, simply this by leaving the earth in at least as good a state as one himself took over it. It's nice that so many people also take this up again. This is one of the oldest formulations of the Central Party programme, but it is also a thought that fortunately has supported far beyond that. Even if the political deal is wide, we know that the biological shortage is a threat. Our climate is changing. It gets warmer on our globe, and not all species are equally adaptable when it comes to it. In the worst possible scenarios with which the Intergovernmental Panel operates, one is a possible loss of species diversity of up to 40 p.p., and it is extremely dramatic. It is quite enough a worst case scenario, but all scenarios present a risk of loss of biological deficiency. Therefore, the climate debate is one of the most important debates even when it relates to biological deficiency. We often refer to that debate and link it to our species’ chance of survival — or to the threat that climate change poses to humans. But it is a threat – and perhaps a far greater threat – to many other species on our planet. Therefore, both active climate policies and good land use, which are here mentioned, are important answers to how we take care of biodiversity. Very, very often the answer over all the answers will be protected. I want to stay a little bit at it, because that's not always the way protection is the answer. In some cases, protection is a good escape, but it is directly sub-communicated that very many species – and endangered species, not least in our country – live not because of protection but because of active land management. Through a living cultural landscape, we secure almost 30 pst. of the Red List species of our survival. If the Right really wanted to contribute to the biological deficiency, one should consider how to best design its policy in order to secure that cultural landscape in the future. And I'll say, there's the right hand side of the game a long, long way to go. To a large extent, in these debates, a number of species highlight rather than other species that – what to say – the fascist almost on the biological deficiency. We'll see that again in the central media, we'll see it again in debates in this room, we'll see it again in the involvement of some nature conservation organizations. And that's one more reason, I think. In any case, I doubt that we will experience that there are demonstrators standing outside the Stortinget with signs saying 'Let the black guy live!' or 'Take care of the wig button!' – unfortunately. But if one means serious about taking care of biological deficiency, it would mean that all species are as much world in our population, that is. that a wolf should be worth as much as a rare low or a rare herb? It's not like that. Instead, the debate is often characterised by an advanced form of discrimination against species, where large species with lots of hair and meat on the menu are significantly more focused than the other species are. Finally, the Council of State has done well for the broad work of the government to take care of the variety of species. As a government party, the Central Party supports this work. At the same time, in this work, there is also a deal in addition to the government party in Stortinget, where I experience a broad commitment to the themes that the interpellant raises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e585	I would also like to thank the interpellant, who is raising this important matter. Natural diversity is the foundation of human society and economy. That's why it's dramatic for life on the globe when the diversity of species is eradicated at a rate that's at least a thousand times as fast as what's natural. Robust ecosystems, with a wide variety of species and genes, ensure access to food and clean water – the natural resources we use to build houses and provide energy. The poor of the world's population are the ones who are hit first and most directly when natural diversity disappears. Destruction of natural buffers produced by ecosystems reinforces the effects of natural disasters such as drought, floods and river waves. According to a report by the Federation of Nature Conservation, this disaster affects 270 million people annually and kills 124 000 people. Degraded and contaminated ecosystems are the main reason why 900 million people lack clean drinking water. Overall, the value of ecosystem services is globally estimated at between 21 000 and 27 000 billion. dollar. However, in Norway too, we have a long way to go before natural diversity is assured. The Norwegian Red List from 2010 lists 4,599 species, of which 2,398 are threatened and 1,284 near threatened. Most important for natural diversity in Norway are changes in the way areas are used. The development of natural areas without taking into account the natural environment still threatens animals and plants. It is often worthwhile for municipalities and businesses to destroy nature rather than take care of it. The development of a cab, road or power station provides income both for municipalities and businesses, without any visible cost of the destruction. There are no parties that choose to reduce biodiversity, perhaps with the exception of our great predators. But the decline comes as a consequence of a lot of smaller decisions on e.g.: infrastructure and industrial development, on which the interpellant also challenged the Minister for the Protection of the Environment. This may in some cases be due to a lack of professionals and competence in the municipalities. That's why Left wants larger and more robust municipalities. But just as often, there are different considerations that are set against each other. Then, unfortunately, the natural diversity loses, bit by bit. There are many measures that can be taken against this. The left has proposed something in its alternative budget, such as increased forest protection and more to clean up Norwegian fjords, but there is also room for more initiatives. A good start is to say no to new emission permits, such as for waste and pollutants, which damage the natural diversity. Another obvious measure will be the establishment of the first petroleum-free areas. In conclusion, the list of actions is very long, and it will take too long for me to go through systematically all the actions under each of the 20 objectives of the strategic plan from Nagoya, but I will challenge the Minister for the Environment for one action, which was also discussed by the interpellant in his introduction: Does the Minister for the Environment believe it is wise to use public resources over the state budget for aid schemes that are directly harmful to natural diversity, such as: construction of forest highways and operation in difficult terrain and CO2 exemption for the fishing fleet? These are issues Left is concerned about, and we regularly get pepper for here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e607	As primarily a listening commodity for Snorre Serigstad Valen, the first interpellation debate made me a little depressed, while this diversity debate seems to me to be very uplifting and interesting. The depression in the last debate, which was all a good and instructive debate for me, was a bit due to the ‘end-of-order ideal’, among other things. Frank Bakke-Jensen argued for. I believe much more in diversity – and then in this debate. I am simply impressed by both reading and hearing Nikolai Astrup. It was a very strong political contribution, which, as I said, impresses me and inspires me in the further political work, not least in my own home country, Uppland, where we often get into dilemmas – and that word has been used in previous speeches here – which is just going on this issue. This is a very difficult topic, and I think one reason why so few of us are in the hall is that it's so hard to get concrete on this, and then it's a little easy to shade away. A problem, which has already been addressed, is used/protected. I think it is absolutely right to say that at least in the past we have thought that there has been a stronger contrast between use and protection than is necessary, even in this diversity debate. Another dilemma, which I think is even more difficult and often gives rise to even worse debates in municipalities and counties, is the debate between state and local authorities, which has not least two dimensions in itself: who is the worst at threatening biodiversity? Is it the land use of the country and its dispositions the biggest problem, or is it what the different municipalities and county municipalities do? An argument from a municipal representative is very much of the type: the state of the sea does not impose any restrictions on, for example: its degradation of cultivated land or its use by other nature in the construction of state roads, while a maritime such as the municipality has very strict regimes for much smaller land use changes. Another debate, which also has to do with the state/municipal relationship, is on who is most suitable or competent to determine what is sensible land use in their municipality. I see that there are difficult debates, but there are often bad debates, one of which is largely more indebted to one another than one of them agreeing on how to help one another for a decent land use in the future. To be able to lift this more strongly up and down, as many people have been in, I think maybe have something to do with the way we measure social change, the way we measure it, whether we see social development going in the right direction. We've had a very interesting debate, I think, about how appropriate changes in gross domestic product are as a measurement method. Here we've been given exciting impressions that we should draw happiness – not least the Christian People's Party has been very good at drawing it up as an interesting debate. One can then wonder in this debate about not just the evolution of biodiversity should also be almost a criterion to see how we succeed in our societal development. The reason why I'm saying this is because I think in many ways we have a social development both in Norway and in the world that is problematic in terms of achieving our bold diversity goals. So it's probably in a lot of ways a little paradigm change we have to be looking for here, more than just kind of neatly patching into the social system that we're all part of. Some more advanced methodology around getting this registered and seeing this in conjunction with social development, for the rest, I think I can be one contribution to raising this more up and up on the agenda. So to something that has been mentioned by several. If we go down to the municipal level, I certainly believe – and one who is a member of the Kuf Committee must believe – that competence is very important. I am convinced that there is too much professional competence, but not least among local and county politicians on this issue. And when you don't have the skills, it's also hard to be politically good and wise on the same topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e625	The Naturmanfold Act got broad support when he was signed here in Stortinget. As the interpellant pointed out in the introduction, natural disasters and ecosystems are important for the life base of very many. I had the pleasure of attending the Nagoya meeting in Japan in 2010 and listening to the presentation and debate that was on this topic. There are many challenges. But one of the major challenges is the lack of monitoring of our natural diversity. This gives room for mistakes — and inappropriate — conclusions in the balance between modern society and natural diversity. As the interpellant points out, the forest is also a very important part of the natural disaster. Voluntary protection of forests we have seen several good examples of. Forestry has, and will be, a positive contributor to voluntary protection. But, as Mr Sande pointed out, protection is not always the right tool. The balance between natural disasters and the taking of care of them and economic activity is also decisive and can help to maintain and sustain natural diversity, because often we can see that protection beets for re-growth and are detrimental to the purpose of protection. We see when it applies to the hundred meter belt in the beach areas, a wide re-growth of these areas, because they are not used as before. We see foreshadows, we see noises that are oversized – which are simply no longer visible due to re-growth. The Nature Diversity Act and a number of other regulations can actually be used in such a context – in municipal or county contexts – and greening is also a major problem there. Dynamic societies with high requirements for efficiency need a solution-oriented regime, and land use change is often halted due to important natural disasters – which are the basis for the use of bureaucracy. Yeah, that might be important, but the question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is We also see that the word "true" will be used. But the definition of these outlines is most relevant to take a debate about, because they are used in such a way that a person does not understand and accept the foundation. When it comes to the law, it's important to have legitimacy, and it's crucial that you reach the goals you've seen. It also applies to the Nature Diversity Act — an important law, which was also the intention of the Progress Party to be annexed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e638	Let me first thank everyone who has taken part in the debate. I think there have been many good posts, and it has shown that there is a broad consensus on the intentions. It remains to be seen, of course, whether we are also able to agree on concrete measures, both in this room and in the municipalities. There have been some issues that I would like to comment on. The representative Sande had a little touch to the Right about our agricultural policy. I would like to reiterate to him that there is never so much centralization and restructuring in agriculture as when the Central Party sits in power, and that is not the intention of his policy, I believe. Our policy, on the other hand, is a policy that is also good for agriculture. But he brought up a point that protection is not always the answer. We fully agree on that. I would like to stress that from the Right there is voluntary protection, and the challenge, as I also mentioned in my contribution, is that the forestry industry is providing more areas of valuable nature for voluntary protection than the government is willing to pay for – so that it is simply on money to protect more of the most valuable area. So I would like to thank the representative Hagen for a shy article – I appreciate that very much. He also had a significant point when he drew out the dilemmas that often arise locally. I hope we can agree in this room that it is important that we contribute to reducing unnecessary conflict and noise locally in our efforts to achieve the goals that we all agree on. It brings me to the Council of State. I asked him instead a question as to when we can expect a national action plan to come to the Stortinget. Only eight years are allowed for these targets to be met. They are very comprehensive and ambitious. They are deemed non-obligatory, but to be followed up in practice, a very obligatory act is required. It is important that the Storting enter and take part in the debate and decisions on what action it should be at the earliest opportunity. We also know that the objective of preserving biodiversity is challenged by the related issue of climate change. We want to see climate change, and whether we can stop it at two degrees, or it continues from there, it will affect biodiversity. Not least in that perspective, it is important that we get started, both with this work and with the work on climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e653	Let me also start by thanking Nikolai Astrup for taking the initiative for a very exciting debate and for putting on the agenda absolutely crucial problems, which we will of course continue to solve after this meeting. I cannot now say exactly when this is presented. I will ensure that an action plan is presented in such a form that the Stortinget can of course participate in the debate on it – in what form we get back to, and I cannot say the time either. However, when it's not so crucial, it's because this is an area how much has happened. To point to areas where the red-green government has done an incredible amount, there are few areas where it has been done more than in nature. We have implemented the Natural Diversity Act, which is the basic one, and regulates the use of nature where people live and live. Although protection is not the whole answer, protection is an important part of the answer. We have protected more national parks than ever before in Norwegian history. We have taken other and controversial areas of protection, such as Trillemarka, and there has been a significant increase in forest protection – although I agree with Astrup that more forest must be protected. We have either introduced or further developed a series of other instruments, such as natural index, red list, blacklist – I mentioned a lot of others before – and the Ministry of the Environment budget has been dramatically increased in our period. The emphasis is on action in this area, which I have thought has been so important that here we have invested, sometimes at the expense of other areas that also deserve attention, such as alcohol and alcohol. cultural memories. But a take-off has taken place in the last few years in the field of nature. The main instruments are in place, and then in such an action plan we need to discuss the way forward. The most important and difficult topic on which many have been involved in the debate is the balance between economic, business and other interests and the environment. There's my claim that, although we agree in principle when we talk in large lines, too often, when we come to the concrete balance, we take the opposite stand. Example of this is: It costs to tell the municipality of Tvedestrand or the municipality of Halden that please do not build a residential area where it will take the edge of the cliff – a butterfly that is very, very rare. It would be nice if there could be a broad support for making such a decision, otherwise that species will die out in Norway. Less controversial is the fact that it may need to be prepared for the dwarf goose in order to land places in South Norway on its way to Finnmark, where it has its most important area. The farmers then have to be compensated in order not to use the soil so early in the year, so that it can be a port of dwarf goose. To build new roads in areas with large salamanders, it has to be built in other ways. It is necessary to facilitate through the increased costs of having an underground tunnel to allow the salamander to pass through the road. It's all these big and controversial, small and not so controversial measures in the daily activities that are trying to get to the goal, and I'll invite the Stortinget to a more thorough debate on this later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e672	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e697	This interpellation is about the industry which, alongside the mining industry, probably has the longest history in this country. The forest industry has been important for the country since the first shipbuilding, sawmilling, coal and tar miles were built. In my office, I have a picture showing the woodworking factories in the Drammens watercourse in 1955. Then there were 33 factories from Hönefoss in the north to Hurumland in the south. There were thousands of jobs, high value creation, and it gave prolonged currency revenues to the country after the war. After the decision to stop the paper production at Follum, there are now two of the 33 timber-using factories again. It's Hellefoss in the Upper Eiker, and it's South Cell in Hurum. This tells a lot about an industry that has undergone great transformations and strong rationalization. That is the situation as a result of the decision to stop production on Follum, which is the background to my interpellation. The decision implies that approx. 700000 m3 of timber and 140000 m3 of tile need to find new buyers. Production of approx. 380 000 tonnes of paper are removed from the market. Over 350 employees lose their jobs. This has great consequences. In addition, we can read that several other woodworking companies are struggling. This is, of course, part of a larger picture, where the basic factor is that paper consumption is falling in most places in the world. In the United States, paper consumption has decreased by 60 pst. in the last 10 years. The Internet and digital information provision have become stronger, to the dispersal of paper. In addition, there are now economic times of alarm. Let me underline the great importance of the three-processing industry also for the industry and the forest owners. When a tree is harvested in the forest, half, the lower part of the tree, goes to the saw mill for wood production. The rest of the wood is supplied for wood processing for paper and cellulose production. In the case of sawmilling, you get three-loads of half the timber volume, the rest is sold to the woodworking industry in the form of chips. This means that approx. 70 pst. Of all timber harvested in Norway, end up in the woodworking industry. A reduction in the production capacity here will therefore also have consequences for the performance of the industry – not least for forest owners and the market for their timber. However, when we know that wood fibers from Norwegian forests have quality characteristics and use characteristics that are widely exploited, we need to look for new positions for the industrial development of this unique raw material. Norway has large and increasing forest resources, and we are likely to be among the world’s largest growing countries in relation to the quantity of forest resources consumed through the highest every year. This, combined with the good characteristics of the raw material, gives a clear picture of the great potential for further development of nutrition. The forest industry is an environmentally friendly process industry and perhaps the country's most complete value chain. It is based on environmentally friendly and renewable Norwegian raw materials, with solid Norwegian environments of competence and with the input of renewable Norwegian hydropower. The Norwegian timber processing industry sells largely on the international market. From the industry team it is claimed that everything that can be produced from oil can also be produced from wood fibre, and it is thought-provoking and uplifting to hear professionals from the woodworking company Borregaard tells that 25 pst. their products did not even exist five years ago. This is a good picture of innovation and good opportunities for an entire industry. It is therefore important to put greater emphasis now as quickly as possible on looking at development opportunities for new products and product lines based on environmentally friendly Norwegian wood fibre. We see the outlines of a transition from the term woodworking industry to the trichemical industry. Therefore, a strategy to further develop these opportunities needs to be established quickly. Of course, the industry has the primary responsibility here, and it must itself be the driving force behind the industrial and commercial dimensions of such a strategy. But, of course, the authorities must also help to support a forward-looking strategy. Infrastructure, a business-friendly forestry policy, energy policy, vocational training and research — the state can help open international markets for Norwegian industry and facilitate good framework conditions in general. This is some key to the role of the state. In addition, it is essential that the strategy is adapted to the needs of the industry for conversion. On the right, the Council of State initiative to set up a working group for the woodworking industry will be commended. We interpret it as a first step towards a strategy where government objectives and instruments are seen in the context. The working group should work quickly and efficiently and its conclusions must be firmly anchored in the industry. In an interpellation on the three-processing industry, by the representative Lise Christoffersen on 28 March 2011, the Minister for Industry expressed his opinion on the ownership of the industry: ‘But that doesn’t mean that you need state ownership to succeed. There is also a lot of private capital and owners who contribute in this sector.» I fully agree with the Council of State on this. The proud Norwegian history of the woodworking industry fully indicates that, not least the forest owners, i.e. the raw materials suppliers, have been responsible, resourceful and capable of developing history. We saw it as early as 1918, when the Waldgeier Association was an important driving force for the home purchase of Borregaard, and we saw it again in the 1960s when the Nordenfjelske Trefedling was established, which is now called Norwegian Forest Industries. Here, too, the Forest Society was behind the initiative. A strategy by the state must therefore build up under such long-term initiatives, which I hope both the forest owners, the industry itself and other long-term investors will promote in the time to come. In particular, there are three issues that are absolutely mandatory in the debate on the three-processing industry. It is raw materials access, energy policy and infrastructure. Raw material supply is an Achilles heel for the forest industry. The right assumes that the government conducts a business-friendly forest policy. It was with considerable surprise that we saw that there was not a clear annual harvest target in the recent farm report. An offensive objective of this would be motivating for both forest owners and industry in their long-term planning, because it would create security for the authorities' driving role in this field. On the contrary, several sites in the country, in particular the environmental authorities, are perceived as counter-powers for the forest industry, in the form of restrictions on the construction of the necessary forest roads and in the form of impositions resulting from so-called non-interventional natural areas. To the right, the initiative of the Minister of Industry hopes to clarify the economic perspectives of this situation. Forestry has really shown that they take their environmental responsibility seriously. I'm sure the Minister of Agriculture can tell you a lot about that. As far as energy policy is concerned, a guarantee system for purchasing power is in place. It was approved by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, in March 2011. The right notes that this scheme is quite different from the government parties without reservations presented in the 2005 election campaign. Furthermore, we finally got green certificates in place. However, with start-up time from 2009, for example: These could not be fully exploited by Southern Cells here in Norway. Forestry and forestry are very transport-intensive industries. The right assumes that an offensive strategy is being adopted in this area, which meets industry and industry’s need for cost-effective transport. It is in the light of these points that I ask the Council of State: what strategies does the government have for the long-term and high use of forest resources in Norway, and how will the government facilitate the future-oriented industrial development of new products based on Norwegian timber raw materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e746	Interpellant addresses the situation and opportunities of the forest and wood industry in Norway. Good conditions for the wood processing industry and the whole forest and wood-based industry are something that takes up both me and the government. We want to stimulate profitable business in the future, based on our forest and wood resources, by contributing to migration, knowledge and innovation. Developments in Europe are a challenge for export-oriented business. The wood processing industry has a very high export share. In recent months, the challenges for this industry have been made visible. Norwegian Forest decided just before Christmas to shut down the production at the paper factory at Follum, with effect from March this year. More than 350 employees are directly affected. At Hunsfos factories in Vennesla the production was closed in the autumn. Both of these factories have had more than 100 years of paper production. At Södra Cell Tofte in Hurum and Södra Cell Folla in Verran, many employees were allowed to leave before Christmas. The Norwegian wood processing industry has been undergoing significant restructuring over time. The industry has been under pressure due to market failures, including: as a result of more electronic communication to replace paper usage. Production has become concentrated in increasingly fewer production units. Despite obvious challenges, however, the wood resources and the heavy competences we have in this area should provide exciting opportunities for development. We must recognise that the authorities cannot do anything about changing market conditions, reducing demand and extensive structural changes in industries. However, through good framework conditions, the government will contribute to the further development of profitable activities based on forest and wood resources. We have large forest resources in Norway. Forest resources have more than doubled in recent years. Today it grows, as the interpellant points to, more than twice as much forest as it is mowed. Norwegian forests take up CO2 corresponding to 50 pst. of the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The government attaches great importance to the sustainable use of forest resources to increase value creation. In the government’s recent report on agricultural and food policy, it is reported, among other things. further development of efforts to increase the use of wood. If the demand for raw material from the forest is increasing, provision shall be made for increasing the maximum and the removal of forest biomass. We have a lot of business in many places at different stages of the value chain for forests and wood. The wood processing industry is an important part of the forest and wood-based industry in Norway. Framework conditions in the field of energy and the environment are important for the woodworking industry. The wood processing industry uses a lot of power as an input in its production. The government’s efforts to strengthen the power supply and industry’s conditions of power are therefore important. Among other things, the production of renewable energy is strengthened by the establishment of the common electricity certificate market with Sweden as of 1 January of this year. However, in order not to weaken the competitiveness of enterprises, wood processing and other high-power industries are exempt from the certification requirement. We have established a guarantee scheme for the purchase of power by the industry with a framework of 20 billion. kr. I am pleased that Statkraft has entered into new long-term power contracts with several three processing companies such as Norwegian Forest on Forest, Södra Cell Folla and Hunton Fiber on Gjøvik. The government has an offensive policy to address climate change with new instruments. At the same time, the government is committed to maintaining and developing the environmental and energy efficient industry in Norway and Europe in parallel with the development of climate instruments. The Government has reason to believe that the revised EU climate allowance directive will be implemented in Norway in such a way that allowances are allocated to Norwegian enterprises in the same way as within the EU. The government is actively working on questions about compensation for carbon entries in the power price. These are issues that are important for wood processing and the whole process industry. The Norwegian timber processing industry is highly technologically and internationally oriented. Norwegian Forest is still a world leading producer of newspaper and magazine paper. Borregaard is a world-leading biorefinery with strong market positions within wood-based biochemicals. There should be many exciting opportunities for development in this industry. For example, researchers believe that: that all products derived from oil may also be made of biomass. The possibilities are huge – biomass is green oil. But opportunities for the future can only be realised through transformation, research and innovation. We need companies with a high level of competence and adaptability. Administrations shall play the role of facilitating the self-creation of new products that are forward-looking and provide safe jobs. Several instruments and programmes within the instrument contribute to projects in wood and wood processing. The eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway was established as a earmarked grant scheme in 2010 with 140 million. kr. The largest grant, of 58 million. kr, was granted in December 2010 to Borregaard Industries in Sarpsborg, for the development of pilot plants for 2nd generation biofuels. The government has continued and strengthened the use of wood as structural and building material through the Tree-led Innovation Programme, which is also managed by Innovation Norway. A current and exciting project that has been contributed by this programme is the spectacular cultural house in Kristiansand, which opened here during the day, with an impressive ‘wave wall’ in local oak to the sea edge. The government takes seriously the challenge of the woodworking industry. On this basis, the Minister of Agriculture and Food and I have set up a working group to look into developments in the Norwegian timber processing industry and assess measures and framework conditions that can contribute to conversion, profitable and innovative enterprises. It will not least be important to look at research and innovation in this sector, including relevant schemes for the woodworking industry in the public sector and how these are used by industry. The working group shall consider measures that can contribute to value creation in the wood processing industry. Work now under way will be in close contact with wood processing companies and industry organisations. Although the development of the woodworking industry is worrying, we must not paint black. Norway has the highest value creation in Europe, with the exception of Luxembourg. Norway has a very productive economy and a resilient business. That is a good starting point for the future. Now we have to look forward and focus on the possibilities. It is not new that industries in Norway have met challenges before, but they have been able to see new opportunities. There are long traditions in Norway for investing in change and innovation over time has led to a more robust and profitable business life, new job opportunities and more attractive jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e793	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I showed in my main post for the interpellation on March 28th last year. There the Minister of Industry had a very good and offensive statement, namely that for the government it is the year of the forest every year, with reference to the fact that last year was the United Nations Forest Year. That should be a good thing for the industry's framework. One of my points in the main post was that we're talking about an industry where the raw material supply has been a key point for investment, investment and development for almost every year in the industry of the woodworking industry. That's still the case. I would also like to ask for the Minister of Industry's focus on that very field. I brought with me an extract from Trønder-Avisa six months ago, which has a reference to Norwegian Forest in Forest, which says that they are working hard because of a lack of local wood. They argue that in central Norway there are large forested areas that are so-called non-interventional natural areas and that forest owners cannot build completely necessary forest roads to get the timber out. Then I can tell the Minister of Industry – and I am sure he is also aware – that non-interventional natural areas are not regulated, but impose large restrictions on forest owners and therefore also on raw material access for the wood processing industry. This, of course, also affects the electoral district of the Council of State. The Minister for the Environment’s response to the following day, in the same newspaper, is that the industry paints and exaggerates. When we get the kind of political challenges at the top of the market challenges that a large industry faces daily, is my question to the Council of State: does the Minister of Industry see any perspectives in this area where his department should also be more committed to facilitating better and more efficient raw material access for the wood processing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e806	I see absolute possibilities that we can engage more. This is, as I said in my main post, a traditional industry. If one sees the whole industry as a whole – the forest people, woodworking and construction products right up to the customer – there may be 25 000 employees in this sector, and there are a lot of district jobs. If these jobs disappear, they are often in more economically poor areas, so they have serious ring-effects also for many other jobs in this neighbourhood. I have to say that it cuts my heart as a company like Follum, with 140 years of business history, ends up. So they've survived two world wars, the great depression, different political victories, international crises, and then they have to pull in the years. It happens that companies are shutting down. Much of the innovation in business is also about the emergence of new jobs and the disappearance of old ones. We have to accept that. But that we in Norway are no longer going to be able to do profitable business on the huge resource that our forest is, I have difficulty imagining. But it's different than it was before. It's new products, it's new production methods, it's knowledge, it's technology, it's innovation. That's how we've become competitive in other sectors. That's the competence we put into every job, the products we develop that are unique in an international market, and the efficiency with which we produce these, that determines. That's where we get to cooperate across departments. We and the Ministry of Agriculture are in good contact around this. We need to use the tools we have within the Research Council, Innovation Norway, the Environmental Technology System, etc. Then we also get to cooperate closely with the companies, investors, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs that will develop this industry, and all the amazing employees that are in this industry. Here we also have to play on teams, I think, with local food products. The county has a major industrial development task, and this is a particularly important industry in some parts of the country. So the answer is yes, we're going to use the tools we have, and we're going to look specifically at this industry and what it's going to do to succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e821	Thank you to the representative, Werp, for a very timely interview and for raising issues that concern us red-green politicians strongly. I also refer to the Minister of Industry's answer, which shows that these are issues that the government is working very actively on. That's good and necessary. As has been said here before, wood processing is an export-oriented industry, and when it is struggling internationally, and especially in Europe, with declining demand and poor profitability on traditional products, yes, time is more than ripe to gain more weight and power in research and development. The raw materials – the basis – we have, and I want to warn against too much black paint. In trøndelag, for example, the current situation is that the forest industry is getting too little timber. It's too little sawmill, mass labor and energy chips. The challenge is to raise the yield. Norwegian Forest needs more mass labor. It is a paradox that only 40 pst. the growth rate is used. Nearly 6 out of 10 cover forest area in Tree layers is defined as old forest. The proportion of old forest is the same now as 10 years ago, but it's 13 pst. more forest in Trøndelag now than 10 years ago. I believe that, assuming that there is active plant-processing and forest-culture work, this illustrates that there are huge resources to take off. We have some of the same forest view all over East and South Norway, as well as the west and coastal forest management. We have a lot of resources, but it's done too little. I was on a forest day in Trøndelag the other Saturday and experienced a municipality where in 2011 the logging had more than doubled from the last year, without any special tools being put in, but by the fact that there was an extra good effort from the forest owner cooperative. It shows that it is possible to lift and get more timber. Action must be taken to promote active and sustainable forestry throughout the country. It is also important in the context of climate change, as the Council of State stated. I believe this is a challenge that is well addressed in the new agricultural and food communication. But more means are needed to solve the challenges. One of them is that we must have a modern and forward-looking industry. We need to make a developmental promise towards a new generation of products. Governments referred to the three-based innovation programme. It is a very good tool, which works well, and which produces results in the form of new and future-oriented products. As I see it, there is a great potential for defining new, environmentally friendly forest products as important inputs for other industries and businesses. Research, technology and product development, innovation, are key points that I think must shape the thinking within this industry. I have noticed that there is a lot of development work in this field that will lead to a more versatile use of wood fibre both as a construction material in the construction industry and in the process industry, but it needs to be invested even more strongly. I am impressed by how Borregaard has been converted from a traditional cellulose factory to have a world-leading position for the production of fine chemical products for use within a range of product spectra – from spruce to fine chemistry. I have expectations of the work that is now being done by the government, with a background in the current situation. In addition, I expect that when the government presents the results of the evaluation of Innovation Norway and SIVA, it will do so, among other things. be committed to giving priority to instruments that can co-finance pilot and demonstration facilities and other measures that stimulate development in this very exciting industry as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e840	First, I want to thank the interpellant for a good and interesting interpellation case. The undersigned had an article including: in the newspaper Nations on Saturday 14 January this year, which deals with a lot of what we are discussing today. When the consumption of, inter alia, newspaper paper is constantly being reduced, it may no longer be right to invest in new newspaper factories. Over the past ten years, newspaper consumption in the United States has been reduced by 60 pst. The same is true in many other countries, for example. in Europe. That's why you have to think about something new, and the possibility is there if the framework conditions are set right. At the same time, we have to think completely, from planting a tree, to harvesting it and further processing, until the final consumer gets the finished product. This is where the environmental side also has to go, and for example. ISO certification is becoming more and more important. To sell a product in both Norway and the rest of the world, more and more people are looking at this. The Progress Party believes in cooperation between the three Nordic countries Sweden, Finland and Norway. These are three countries that have a lot in common in many ways in the forest industry. There is already some cooperation between Sweden and Norway today, and Swedish companies own some in Norway and vice versa. I think this is helping to strengthen and develop the industry of a forward-looking industry that our young people dare to engage in, because there is probably a lot of the problem here – the recruitment of the industry. Therefore, we need to invest more in forest schools and education as well as increase the longevity of those who work in the industry. Norway’s growth in timber is just over 25 million. m3, but only approx. 30 pst. This is going to be hogged down and processed. In Sweden and Finland, the rate of use is between 70 and 80 pst. This means that the Norwegian forest is getting older and older. So some of it just becomes the rat and it gets zero. It is strange, I think, that we import Danish Christmas trees and think they are much better and nicer than those we have ourselves. The same is true of imports of wood from countries of Eastern Europe. This import is now approaching 10 pst. of Norwegian maintenance consumption. When you live in the middle of the forest, this should be something we could produce ourselves, but here we come back to the framework conditions of Norwegian business, which makes it difficult to compete with some other countries. Most Norwegian economic operators demand first priority is transport. This applies to both rail and road, but the last thing that matters is perhaps the forest industry. Unfortunately, today's offer means that many people get a lot of transport costs, larger than our neighboring country. Products from the forest are heavy and large, and therefore transport costs are also high. More attention needs to be paid to strengthening our roads and bridges, as well as building timber terminals which allow the transport of timber and its products in an economically, rapidly and environmentally sound manner. At the same time, it must be possible for the transport industry, i.e. trucks, may carry more tonnes than today, and that the maximum length of the combination must be longer. This has our neighboring country, and so they get better use of the cars. Similarly, rail capacity must also be strengthened by, inter alia, better and larger wagons and several meeting facilities, i.e. crossing tracks, and not at least several timber terminals. In order for the industry to survive and develop, we also need to look at alternative income opportunities. Here is hunting and outdoor experiences one of several. Increased production of bioenergy is another. It's strange that a lot of the biomass we produce is sold and transported by truck or trains far into Sweden and becomes environmentally friendly energy there. In Sweden, this is an important overall policy. It should perhaps have been the case in Norway that several new state buildings are being built in order to use this type of energy. We could have produced a lot of energy that would have been more profitable and not least environmentally friendly. Otherwise, more use of timber and its final products needs to be stimulated. We are proud of Norwegian bridges in heroes. The world's largest toothpicks stand as a statue at Jordan's factories at Flisa. The same thing probably makes the world's largest kick that's on Tynset, also this in Hedmark. There's more symbol building in three, but there's more to it than that. The forest has so many possibilities. It employs many people, and it makes a good contribution to the state fund, but it can become so much bigger with the right framework conditions and positive signals from government and corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e862	I would also like to commend the interpellant for a correct and useful interpellation. I will also commend the Council of State for the 3-minute he held. It contained a philosophy of developing industry in Norway, to which I can fully join, and it's not every day. The only thing you can say, in order to take a bit of a follow-up debate in advance, is that I hope there are no SMSes to the action group that is now going to go in and analyse actions, that there are other signals there. That's what the interpellant says: Woodworking and forest have a long history in Norway. It can be said in many ways that the industrial start in Norway came as a result of forests. London was partly built up in Norwegian works. It also appeared on the resources at the time. Then we lost a reprocessed resource. One might say it was an over-impact on the Norwegian resource. But today, the resources are marked by the fact that we're saving huge amounts, and we've never had such a large forest resource as we have today. It's almost a scandal nationally, I would say, you have a resource base of one third of Swedish, we have a yield level of 10 pst. by the Swedish, and we have an investment level of 3 pst. by the Swedish. Here I miss all the ambitions of the agricultural message that lies here. It is good that it is the Minister of Industry who is the recipient of this interpellation, because we need commitment from the business side. What symbolizes wood and forest in Norway is that it is a complete value chain. It is based on Norwegian raw materials, it is processed in Norway, and it is sold to an international market without any form of customs protection. It will be some kind of test to see if we can maintain other value-making industries in Norway together with as oily and oil-intensive avalanche as we have in Norway. Now, the Council of State will not be blamed for the strategic misdecisions that also characterise the industry today. There is no doubt, as the interpellant said, that there has been a great deal of risk in the industry, and a large industrial exposure has been built up, but today it is marked that perhaps the right strategic decisions have not been taken for some time. Thus, it is also a strongly weakened ownership that needs interest and activity from outside to get back on the offensive. But it is the industry itself that must take responsibility, and that must be the driving force behind what to do. What's interesting is that everything for which oil can be used can in principle also be used for wood. Oil is in many ways transformed biological material, which has been transformed over millions of years. So the potential is very high. At that time, there should be ambitions regarding the resource base and the use of the resource base. That is what is the security of those who are to invest in further processing. I don't think you should over-dimension the challenge for Norwegian forestry by processing disappears. Timber is also an international product. Norwegian forestry will be much more cyclical, and you might experience a little lower prices than you would otherwise. In addition, Norwegian forestry will be able to live on. District Norway, as well as the Minister of Industry, where the resources are located and where there is a great need for the activity that can be derived from this, the creation of value added and jobs, cannot help but focus on the processing of resources in Norway. I want to make a couple of recordings. We just had a meeting with the county manager in Hedmark, and there was also the Moelven boss. Transport is enormously central. He called for a meeting trail on the railway and focused on bottlenecks on the road, which makes transport considerably more expensive. I also want to bring forward taxes, when 99 pst. by Norwegian forest owners today see their property as an alternative to a bank book. Forests have been through such productivity growth that you no longer live by working in the woods. So it's obvious that when it's taxed as personal income on top of other income, you have a challenge. That's what the opposition has asked you to look at. We have also come to the conclusion that there must be opportunities for other types of companies, we have proposed investment funds, and there are a number of measures here that should be considered in order to bring up the activity. This is a very interesting issue. I have registered that the Minister of Industry has asked for investigations from Hedmark. I thank you for starting that kind of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e881	Like the previous speakers, I would like to thank Mr. Werp for raising an important and topical issue. As Werp pointed out, the forest is an important resource. He's renewable. The forest is important for value creation. At the same time he's an arena of recreation, he's important to the climate, and in many areas he's providing an important element of the biological deficiency. In order to ensure value creation and the environment, it is important to develop sustainable and knowledge-based forestry. These questions will be addressed in depth in the Agriculture Communication, which is now being dealt with in the Stortinget. The representative, Mr Werp, also addresses the question of further processing. Forests have many uses. The government has pointed to wood as an important building material in a previous biggest message, and it is important that we follow up our efforts on wood as a building material. As the Council of State was in its inception, it is quite exciting and fun to see that we have used local wood on one of the largest signal buildings in my hometown, the cultural house Source. A large part of the forest goes to the woodworking industry. That industry is facing major challenges, which we can read about in the media constantly. The market for volume products, such as newspaper paper, has been difficult for a long time. The turbulent economic situation in Europe does not make the situation simpler. Many businesses are struggling, and some have contributed years. There is a need to raise the woodworking industry in Norway, and the government has said she will look at the challenges. There is a lot of evidence that we need to change the industry. In other process industries and parts of the processing industry, an important change has already taken place. The type of conversion we're talking about here is the conversion away from the volume product and over to more special products with a higher price per unit of weight. It's a process that I've been in in another process industry. What we've learned when we've been converting to more high-priced products in other process industries is that it's important to bet on development, it's important to bet on research, but it's actually also important to bet on the post-research period, the pilot plant. So having good arrangements that allow us to run a certain risk download through support schemes to develop new processes and new products, I think it's the grip that's important to take into account whether we're going to raise the process industry to be a forward-looking industry, built on a very important resource that, as many people have been in, has meant a lot to Norway in the past. But it can also mean a lot to Norway in the future if we can make the necessary changes, and, as I said, among other things. place emphasis on support schemes and risk removal for the piloting of processes and new products. Then we can say that one of the systems that has proved to work well in relation to that type of action is the eco-innovation scheme in Norway that has been mentioned before today. It's just a system that has a volume that allows one to lift a slightly larger project, and take the step from research to production. I found that there were corresponding support schemes, improvements to existing schemes in support of process development and product development, among others. with an environmental focus, will continue to be important elements in the work. Then the representative Gunnar Gundersen was into something that I've been making up on a couple of occasions, and that's the danger that we get a two-part business life in Norway. On the one hand, we have an oil sector, offshore sector, which is really going high, and which is asking for a lot of labour. On the other hand, we have other export industries that are hard-wearing due to difficult markets and a level of costs such as: The oil industry is in the process of creating. Here I think we need more discussions about how to avoid getting a very uniform business life in Norway, and I'm looking forward to discussions in this room about how to create a robust, wide and versatile business life in Norway. I will certainly work to ensure that the timber processing industry with a new product is an important element in the future prospects of many industries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e902	I'm very pleased with the interpellation. There's a much broader interest now in collecting about the forest industry. My headline is: New processing of Norwegian wood. The result must be an increase in profitability in all parts of the value chain and an industry attractive to young people. Several have been involved in the roadblock. The framework conditions for the industry have tightened up to both market and political in recent years, so in terms of terms, we are ten over twelve instead of ten to twelve, to put it figuratively. The crisis is so great that the South of Tofte, which uses 6,000 m3 of timber a day, and Follum, who uses approx. 1 000 to 2 000 m3 a day, closed. It's incredibly serious, and you have to be able to say it without being called a pessimist. So there's some kind of reserve problem. The marketing problems push prices, push the values in all parts of the chain, and there are very few young people who are trained in the field of forest use at all levels. That's where it has to change. Some want the future role of forestry to be hardwood protection, tile firing and sales to the rest of the world. For someone who comes from the Drammens River, it's like going back to the time before the 1500s. One must therefore agree that Norway without forestry, Norway without woodworking, is not Norway, and we must therefore be very pragmatic in relation to the instruments we use from the current situation and from the future situation, in order to create optimism. The possibilities are enormous. In wood, we have carbon. It's not as concentrated as oil. The difference between oil and wood is also that wood must first be planted, then it must be harvested. So it's more expensive than using the concentrated carbon in oil and gas. Therefore, it is necessary to change the business-economic relationship between the profitability of using renewable carbon in wood versus storage carbon in oil and gas. There are also issues about framework conditions and policies, and it will influence what the industry will look like in the future. As many people have experienced, the environments in Norway are weak, but there are great points of light, and Borregaard is, as many have been, the jewel that we have in the Norwegian wood industry, and it is also a jewel in the Nordic context. We have opportunities. On 10 January this year, the Swedish newspaper Dagens Industrie said in connection with a large analysis of the forest industry that there is now a favourable development of the industry in Sweden. It's usually a result of the Swedish situation. The situation in Norway is different. We therefore need to use instruments that are appropriate to a Norwegian situation. Several have been involved in research and development. The Swedish and Finnish environments are the best today. Norway has to get to the height. We've been underestimated over several years as a result of one thinking that the woodworking industry is going its way, one doesn't need a power collection about it, but that's exactly what this discussion is about. The critical factor for the future is the industry sea level. What does the industry want? What understanding does the industry have of what is needed in the future? I am getting inspiration in my work on this from the shipping company, from shipping, where there were people who said: Norway without shipping is not Norway. One was pragmatic and put together the tools needed for the nourishment to flourish. Similarly, within the industry we are talking about. So, the industry has to establish a common sense of reality and figure out what it wants. The industry must stand together, and it must develop a true, consistent and honest message – and I stress honest message. It's going to be consistent and honest, so it can be put into life because it's thoughtful in advance. As many people have been involved, Norway has a proud story. The one that is my model to those degrees is Ivar Aavatsmark, director of the Norwegian Forest Association. He was hired during the war, became CEO in 1949 and was appointed until 1982. A strategy was put in place that was based on overall, long-term and long-term ownership. That's why it's one of the most important things today to build bridges from today's industry and into the industry of the future, and then we also have to look at capital and ownership. There are three types of capital that the State can pragmatically enter into. It's investment aid, it's risk capital, and it's equity, so that one makes this work, because it takes a long-term, it takes a lot of money to get from where we are now, and into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e929	I thank you for the comments we have heard in the debate. All posts are marked by a genuine interest in the forest industry. It's positive, it promises well for the Greater One's further involvement in this matter. I will once again commend the Council of State for his response to the interpellation, which at present signals a positive and offensive role on the part of the government, and then we shall all follow it further in the continuation. There are a few things that I have noted separately. The first is that, when the Stortinget is gradually to deal with the agricultural notification submitted, it will be a first milestone for a long-term debate in the forest industry. There we have the opportunity to discuss exactly what more have been about: the raw material supply for Norwegian forestry – does the forest industry get what they need? There may be timber in Norwegian forests, but the industry has repeatedly said that they need more than the Norwegian forest owner deforestation. I hope we can have a debate in connection with the agricultural notification on a harvest target, a concrete harvest target, for annual timber harvests in Norway. It will be a positive signal both for forest owners and for forest nutrition. I also hope we can have a debate, when that time comes, on the principle that active and competent forestry also takes care of important conservation interests. There is a lot to look forward to, and we will have many and interesting and important debates on this topic in the future. I meet specifically the Ministry of Industry's contribution to getting good soil for investment and investment in the woodworking industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e946	Also, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter that the government cares a lot about. These are important and traditional jobs that provide economic development in large parts of the country. I think this is the interaction between public and private, between research, development and innovation funds and private capital, which can bring us forward. This was a support for building modern Norway, and I also hope that this industry will have a future into this century. We shall contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e951	That being the case, it is no. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e963	I refer you to my letter to the Stortinget of 16 January this year and thank you for the opportunity to explain the management of the state's ownership of Telenor in connection with the sale of TV 2 shares by the A-press. Telenor, where the state is a shareholder of 54 pst, is a significant shareholder in the A-press. The state ownership of the Norwegian business community is extensive and it manages large amounts on behalf of the community. For the purposes of national investment, companies and co-sharers, it is important that the State manages its ownership in a professional manner. There is full consistency between this and the ambition of the government to be an active owner who wants to contribute to the industrial and economic development of companies. The state framework and principles of state ownership policy have been firmly established by alternating governments since the ownership principles were established in 2002. These principles also underpin the ownership exercise of the current government and were last communicated to the Stortinget in the new ownership message, which I presented in the spring of 2011. State ownership policy shall be exercised in accordance with the division of roles between the shareholders, the board and the management of the company, as set out in company law, and within the framework of generally recognised principles of ownership management and company management. This implies that the State of companies with commercial objectives exercises ownership through the general meeting, with respect for the division of roles in company law. The legal framework here is inter alia: the general share law, and in particular § 5-1, where it appears that shareholders exercise the senior authority of the company through the general meeting, and the share law/the general share law § 6-12, which implies that the management of the company falls within the board and the executive director. One consequence of this is that the Council of State does not have decision-making powers in the company outside the general meeting, cf. state ownership principle No. 3 «Ownership decisions and decisions shall be taken at the general meeting». Furthermore, the State has traditionally been cautious about instructing companies at the general meeting in individual cases, as it may undermine the division of roles and responsibilities and may have sides to the constitutional responsibility and to possible liability towards third parties. In addition, in leased companies there are restrictions on the interests of the other shareholders and the principle of equality of shares as set out in the Shares Act/General Shares Act § 5-21. Within these framework, regular contact meetings with the management of the company are a central part of the follow-up to state ownership. Such contact meetings are also common to many of the private shareholders of the companies. Normally, the Ministry has quarterly meetings with the companies. It is also apparent from the ownership message. In practice, such contact between the Ministry and the company will be a prerequisite for the Ministry to exercise its ownership properly, and this has been the practice of alternating governments. Themes for such meetings may include: are the economic development of the company, strategic issues and societal responsibilities. In this dialogue, good information is important. The company should itself ensure that owners are informed and involved in matters that there is reason to believe are important to the owner. This is the result of general practice in Norwegian companies. It is the companies that have the most information about their own activities at all times, and therefore have to show a sense of what matters should be informed about. The Ministry is regularly briefed on such matters in the companies. The size also believes that such information is important. Int. S. No 310 for 2008-2009 on the role of the State in the transactions between Aker and Aker Solutions, a unanimous Supervisory and Constitutional Committee expresses the following: ‘The Committee considers that the matter illustrates the need for clarification of the country’s clear expectations as to the extent of company information of a strategic or industrial nature, how to inform the State, who should be informed, and the timing of such information.’;» The Ministry may also deal with various matters on its own initiative. It appears from the ownership notification that, in addition to the ordinary ownership dialogue, conditions of social importance may be included in the ownership dialogue that the State has with the companies, in line with other shareholders and other stakeholders. Furthermore, it states: ‘The framework for ownership management thus does not prevent the State, as other shareholders, from addressing matters that companies should consider in relation to their activities and development. The views expressed by the State in such meetings are to be seen as input to the company's administration and administration. The Board of Directors is responsible for managing the ownership interests of the company for the benefit of all shareholders, and must make the concrete balances and decisions. Matters requiring the consent of the owners must be dealt with at the general meeting and be settled by shareholder democracy in an ordinary manner.» The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has, on some occasions, been criticised for the ownership exercise of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge, among others. based on studies conducted by the Riksrevisionen. A review of this criticism has been that the ministry has been too low in its dialogue with the companies. In the context of the review of the National Audit Office’s study of senior remuneration in companies with State ownership in the spring of 2011, the Committee was concerned about why the government that owns had not done enough to slow down the trend of senior pay in individual companies. For example, I received the following question from the High Representative of the Committee, Per-Christian Foss, concerning a concrete compensation scheme in Argentum: ‘Yes, I ask again the question: What has the Council of State done in the ownership dialogue that has been with Argentum so far, to ensure that it examines the possibility of terminating an agreement?’ The National Audit Board of the Storting presented a review of the activities in 2010 on Tuesday. The National Audit Office also believes that the Ministry must be more active. The Court of Auditors points out, inter alia: on the following: «The ownership of the Member States shall be exercised within the limits resulting from the division of responsibilities between the owners of the companies and the board of directors. Within these frameworks, active ownership is a key prerequisite for government ownership policy.’» The Riksrevision further states: «In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the State that owns the instruments available for ownership management, follow-up and control in an active manner must use in this context.» Expectations that we will have a dialogue with the companies are also reflected in written questions from Stortinget. On 29 November 2010, Harald T. Nesvik, Vice-Chairman of the Business Committee, asked me the following written questions: ‘What will the Council of State do to monitor the ownership of Uninor, including the uncertainty surrounding the investments in India, and to ensure the situation of the small shareholders of Telenor ASA?’ It is precisely these kinds of issues that may be elements of an ownership dialogue, while it is clear that the management and management of the companies is responsible for the business operation, including dealing with these kinds of issues. The Ministry's right and responsibility to enter into an active ownership dialogue is clearly expressed in the context of the control and constitution committee's handling of the so-called Aker case. Int. S. No 310 for 2008-2009, as referred to, on the role of the country in transactions between Aker and Aker Solutions, a unanimous committee expresses the following: ‘The Committee further points out that, during the examination of the case, there has been a broad political agreement that the Aker case underlines the need for active and conscious ownership by the State, cf. St.meld. [[2006-2007]] No 13 An active and long-term ownership.» Then it goes on to say: ‘The Committee will also stress the need for the State which owns, in line with other industrial owners, to participate actively and clearly with clear, well-founded and independent positions relating to major strategic industrial dispositions in the company.’ This demonstrates that good ownership involves a clear dialogue with the company between the general meetings, where, as the committee says, we actively and clearly participate with clear, well-founded and independent positions. So to the specific case about the sale of TV 2, and whether this is a matter of such a nature that it is right to bring it into the dialogue with the company. It is an overall objective of ownership policy to contribute to national ownership and activities in Norway. The ownership message states, for example:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The government considers it appropriate and important that the country contributes to industrial development in Norway through a significant and active ownership position in Norwegian business.’ And on the other hand, «Among the state-owned companies are several leading industrial companies in Norway. These companies have a significant role in Norwegian industry and business. It is important that these companies contribute to good technology development, to the development of good business clusters, bud shooting and increased value creation.» National ownership can therefore be an important consideration. Therefore, it would not be unusual for the sale of large Norwegian companies to be affected in the owner’s dialogue. Such issues are also addressed from time to time by storage representatives. On 6 January 2011, Right Ivar Kristiansen asked me a written question, asking: ‘What will the Council of State do to prevent the company from becoming part of a possible SAS sale, and what are the preparations for Widerøe to remain a Norwegian company?’ The size can be certain that the future of Onternøe is a matter in the owner dialogue with SAS. In the case of enterprises engaged in media activities, the Stortinge has joined the objectives set out in St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007 Broadcasting in a digital future. It appears that one of the overall objectives of media policy is to stimulate Norwegian ownership. TV 2 is Norway's largest private media company and was, until recently, the only private broadcasting company of a certain size with Norwegian ownership. This shows that a sale of TV 2 to a foreign owner was a legitimate theme to include Telenor. This does not mean that, through state ownership, we can or should instruct Telenor in the company's business arrangements. This would be contrary to the principles of state ownership. The objective of the State's ownership of Telenor is to contribute to the national anchoring of the company, to remain the headquarters functions and central research and development activities in Norway and to ensure a good industrial development of the company. The company should be operated on a commercial basis. It is fully possible to achieve these objectives while having a dialogue on the importance of Norwegian ownership of TV 2. A sale of TV 2 has been the subject of long-term dialogue with Telenor, at the latest in June. The importance of national TV 2 ownership has been underlined. At the June meeting, a concrete sales process was not a topic. I want to go through the main elements of the dialogue over the past few weeks. A few days before Christmas, the Minister of Culture received information that a TV 2 sale was in progress. In view of this, Telenor was invited to meet with the Ministry of Industry and Trade on 22 December. I showed that it was unfortunate if TV 2 was sold out of the country, while I was clear that this was not a decision of the owner. The options were discussed, and I said that the possibilities for this should be pursued. The chairman said that this would be followed up. The next day I had a short conversation with the director, with the wish that the department should be kept continuously informed. On 29 December I had a telephone call with the director. In addition, there was one telephone from the agency without the material content of the TV 2 sale being the subject. The first days after the new year, the department had contact with the board of directors, and we understood that the matter had much faster progress than we were aware of. We started working on a basis for further information on the matter. On 5 January, I had a short conversation with the group manager who led us to a meeting that same evening to get information about the process. From Telenor, the director met. He told me that a TV 2 sale was almost finished, and that they would probably get to the goal during the weekend, with subsequent steering. He told me that alternatives had not been shown to be possible to realize. At this meeting I clearly expressed disappointment at the follow-up to the possibility of an alternative. It was at this meeting that the chairman perceived something I said in such a way that he asked if this could have consequences for the board. I immediately replied that this was not understandable. On Saturday 7 January, text messages were sent from the department to the head of Telenor's board. Here we repeated our desire to apply for alternatives, and we asked for information about the time period. We also specified that we would not instruct, but that we wanted to get time to brief. This has been published in the Ministry's press release of 13 January. On Friday and Saturday, the director of Telenor contacted the Prime Minister's office with questions about the government's views. The Prime Minister announced that this is a matter decided by the board of directors, which the government therefore does not take a position on, and that the matter is normally dealt with by the board. On Saturday 7 January, the board of directors of Telenor decided to support a sale of TV 2 and on Sunday 8 January, the A-press board decided to sell TV 2 to Denmark. In our communication with Telenor, it has been clear that it is the board that will make decisions. At the same time, we have been concerned that the company is applying for options to ensure a possible national anchoring of TV 2. In my opinion, we have adhered to the framework and principles that the Storting has agreed to for the exercise of state ownership policy. We have had clear, well-founded and independent views that we have communicated in the owner's dialogue with the company. At the same time, in my view, we have respected the division of roles. Nevertheless, there are things that could have been done differently. First of all, I see that the wording of one sentence in one text message sent on Saturday was upresis. At the same time, it became clear in the same text that it was not appropriate to instruct the board. I also see that we have not conducted the dialogue in a good enough form. I'm sorry. I believe that we have not exerted undue pressure. At the same time, I take note that Telenor's director experiences it differently. A dialogue consists of two parties, and these may have different views of what is said and done. We have already had contact with Telenor on how the dialogue will be in the future to contribute to good and trusting cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1094	The President will then propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 34a of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, that a brief comment round be opened limited to submissions of up to 5 minutes from each party group and, where appropriate, a final statement from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1099	I would like to thank the Minister of Industry for a thorough presentation, which, in my view, is clarifying in relation to the Council of State's handling of Telenor related to the sale of TV 2 by the A-press. The Council of State has underlined the principles of state ownership, with the defined division of responsibilities between the board and the owner as a supporting element. It is important to clarify that the State has designed its own main principles of good ownership that is directed towards all state companies. These principles are in line with generally accepted ownership principles, such as: deals with significant issues such as equal treatment of shareholders, transparency, independence, composition of the board and the role of the board. It is also stated that ownership decisions and decisions should be taken at the general meeting. When the new ownership message was dealt with in Stortinget in June last year, this was very central. Both the Communication and the Committee's setting-up stress that the government should pursue an active ownership policy, in which clear expectations are expressed for the boards. As the Council of State has now highlighted in its presentation, within these principles, it is for the Minister of Industry, as the relevant Council of State for the exercise of ownership, to address matters which the company should consider. It has also been argued by the Storting that, through its ownership exercise, it is ensured that it remains sufficiently well informed and takes into account matters which are relevant for the companies to assess in relation to the company’s activities and development. Although in many ways there is a difference between the state and other owners, there is no difference at this point. This is not about instructing the company, but about expressing ownership views as input to the management board's treatment, on which the role of the board is to manage the company and all the shareholders of the company. The reason for addressing this specific matter with Telenor is now explained, which shows, in my opinion, that it was legitimate and relevant for the Minister of Industry to raise the matter. As the Council of State pointed out, the Storting has taken on board in several contexts where they think one should be more active in relation to the exercise of ownership. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship with management wages and salaries. The size has repeatedly underlined the responsibility of the Council of State to enter into an active ownership dialogue with the companies, including the company. in order to be sufficiently informed about the circumstances necessary for the proper management of State ownership and in line with the intentions of the Storting. In some cases, the opposition has been critical and has shown that it has been too passive and failed to obtain the necessary information from the companies. Among other things, the Per-Kristian Foss representative from this interlocutory has previously said that he assumes that the councils are on the clock, keeping themselves informed, asking questions and engaging. In this respect, it should be noted that, in order to meet the requirements of the Storting and established governance principles, it is important that corporate governance discharges its obligations to keep owners informed about important strategic arrangements. I also think it is important to bear in mind the fact that the National Auditor's own body, the National Auditor's, points out in the report that came this week, that there is room for a more active follow-up to the state's ownership policy. The Riksrevision assumes that within the framework of company law and other frameworks set by the Stortinget, there are significant opportunities for a more active ownership exercise in several state companies. Let me conclude by saying that from the Labour Party we are satisfied with the statement the Minister of Industry has now given to Stortinget. We believe that the matter has been adequately clarified, and that the Council of State has followed the government's own principles of ownership and respected its responsibility for obtaining information, as well as the framework established by the Stortinget. I record that the Council of State acknowledges that some things could have been done differently in relation to the communication with Telenor. I agree with this. In our view, the statement underpins the fact that the Council of State did not intend to instruct the company in the case of the sale of TV 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1127	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the Council of State for coming to the Stortinget and explaining, on the initiative of the opposition. It is very important to clarify all the facts in a matter that is so important in the exercise of State ownership. The state is a very big actor. It is not just the Ministry of Commerce and Industry that is responsible for government ownership. There are also a number of other companies divided into other departments – we are talking about ten to eleven departments responsible for different companies. Therefore, it was important when the State Councils presented the Report. St. 13 for 2010–2011, Active ownership. In this respect, the signed rapporteur led to the first draft of the Committee's observations in the pen. It is quite clear that there are different approaches to how an active state ownership should be, but I am not familiar with anyone who has criticized the government for his involvement and active relationship with the ownership of various companies. That criticism has been addressed is the way you've done it. Obviously, when you see the level of what has been done, the questions arise: Has this been the exercise of active ownership for the benefit of all shareholders in the company? Or is what we've seen, an attempt at undue pressure against one of the country's remote largest and most important companies? The Council of State itself referred to several quotations from the Report. St. 13, and that's what I'm going to do. The government writes the following related to category 1 – 3 companies, of which Telenor is part: ‘The management of the owners of the companies in categories 1 to 3 has as one of the main objectives the maximisation of the value of the State’s shares and the contribution to the good industrial development of the companies. In addition, the State ownership of some of these companies has other main objectives, such as national anchoring of head offices or other specifically defined objectives.’ You don't disagree with this, but it's clear that once you've followed the case and the timeline we've seen here, a number of issues arise. How could one create the great uncertainty about the company's government, which was so great that Roar Flåthen, the LO leader, had to call the Prime Minister to hear what the government's policy was? State Council Giske has tried to explain some of the things that have happened in the case, but the statement was also marked by a number of issues in which the criticism of what has been achieved is not really taken into account. Did it make sense to send these texts? Among other things, one text message came to the board just before a board of directors. Owner of 54 pst. of the shares in the company says that every time he has said that he disagrees with the company's choices, he has made it clear that of course it is up to the board. But through one's behavior, another sends a signal. In addition, when it says in a text that you want to have the matter discussed in the government, the question is, is that the Prime Minister's opinion as well? Had it been assessed whether this matter should be addressed to the government or to the government's sub-committees? When the Council of State says that he is engaged and finds it natural to exercise his active ownership – he also refers to several examples – one has to ask the question: Was there a need for all these phone calls that took place at the Rome Christmas and right over Christmas? Was it enough to have one meeting? In addition, we have repeatedly seen the Council of State in the media in connection with this matter, where he has once again clarified: we cannot intervene, but we disagree. This went so far that we saw a press conference linked to the board of directors of Telenor. This way we can't drive ownership. We can't have this relationship between such a big listed company and its largest owner. I also do not feel that everything has come up in the matter. In the light of this, I ask that this matter be referred to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee so that all parties can be consulted. Today we have heard the version of the Council of State. I think there are up to several people who want to hear the version of both Telenors and others. So I hope the matter is sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee for Treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1145	In the management of the large values owned by the Norwegian State through its companies, it is necessary to be quite embarrassing in the exercise of ownership. There must then be no uncertainty, as has been done in this matter – through media postings, the Council of State's own opinions, and not least the attempts to present itself alternately as the responsible Council of State and alternately as a citizen with opinions on national ownership. The uncertainty about the governance principles was further escalated by what we were told by the chairman of his press conference. For the right, it seems quite clear that ownership principles have not been followed in this case. The contact the State should have with the company is precisely described in the ownership notification – I do not go into any detail, it has been well stated by the State Council itself. But what is necessary is that the markets, the Storing and the outside world must know when the Council of State is representative of the Government and when it is more private practice in selected areas. That's really what this is all about. We cannot have an uncertainty and unforeseeable about such strong, financially important companies. We have to control by fixed criteria, not by input methods. Adhoc management can be negative for the company, for investor confidence, for the values in the market, and not least – after we have seen the contact with the board – to recruit good, competent board representatives who want to believe something on their own after the job they have been given. In the presentation by the Council of State and in the follow-up by the Chairman of the Committee, the Storting, Control and Constitutional Committee and the National Audit Office have been pushed forward in an attempt to pretend that this has been a wish of the Grand Duchy. It doesn't. Governments are talking about ‘active and conscious ownership by the state’ in the Aker case. Yes, the Control and Constitutional Committee has said something about that. But the problem in this case is, who is the state? Is it the Council of State when he sends texts to the Chairman of the Board, or is it the Prime Minister who is the State? That's what's the problem for the opposition in this case. There has been an all-round attempt to disguise itself as a representative of the government, while there were opinions of their own that were expressed. This has been characterised as misleading by the Prime Minister's office at the request of the Chairman-in-Office, and I have not heard that the Council of State has rejected it today. This is also strange: in a debate on NRK 11 January, the Council of State said: we agree on these principles, and we have also followed them in this matter. There is no disagreement between me and the Prime Minister. I have difficulty understanding how the council could say this, when he very well knew that the opposite was the case. In this process, we have gained knowledge and insight that the Council of State tried to push an experienced director, with extensive experience in politics and business, into adopting different governance principles than those in force. Luckily, for the company – and also for the state – the head of the board of directors, the LO and the prime minister, had as weapons educators and protectors of the ownership management guidelines drawn up by the Storting. The question you ask in the next round is: Has anything similar happened, or can anything similar happen in other cases? It's the kind of ownership management you can't have. Now I understand at the Council of State that he doesn't think this might be 100 pst. But there's more to it than that. I believe that the uncertainty created in this matter may shape the administration in the future, that will mark the act of government representatives in the state's companies. That is exactly why it is important that we have raised the matter here. I also believe that it can be continued, where one goes into the principles of this and is told to the outside world that what has been in force until now is still valid, no matter how you deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1164	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and thorough review of this matter. It has cleared up the basis for speculation about what has happened. It has also shown that the Minister of Industry has handled this matter on the basis of the principles of State ownership. Six months ago, we dealt with the big issue of state ownership, and there was a big deal in the Stortingen about the main features of the message. A central element of this message is the principle of an active state ownership. There are many places in the message that have been described. Among other things, we can find following: ‘The framework for ownership management does not prevent the State, like other shareholders, from addressing matters that companies should consider in relation to their activities and development. The views expressed by the State in such meetings are to be seen as input to the company's administration and administration.» This is exactly what the Minister of Industry has done. He has expressed his view towards the board, while he has said that there is no instruction. SV is concerned that we should have an active state ownership. We, who dispose of the community's resources, have a great responsibility to ensure that these resources are properly managed. Therefore, SV welcomes the fact that the government exercises an active ownership within the framework of debt. We understand that this is what the minister has done in this matter. SV and the other government parties are concerned with the national anchoring of key companies. It is presented in the ownership message, which received wide support from Stortinget. The desire for national anchoring applies not least to media enterprises such as TV 2. Media businesses have a purpose in addition to the commercial one. They are important for the democratic conversation in the public space and for the dissemination of our culture. It is natural for such views to be communicated to Telenor’s leasing, so that they can assess whether these concerns are consistent with the commercial interests of the company. The government is often criticized for too little activity as its owner. The last time happened a few days ago, when the Riksrevision, which is Stortinget's own body, presented its position. Here the government was criticized for having practiced passive ownership. It shows how important it is to follow the ownership message's principle of an active ownership. As many have been here before today, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs dealt with the relationship between Aker and Aker Solutions in 2009. A Joint Committee then stated the following: ‘The Committee will also stress the need for the State which owns, in line with other industrial owners, to participate actively and clearly with clear, well-founded and independent positions relating to major strategic industrial dispositions in the company.’ The sale of TV 2 is, in our opinion, a larger strategic arrangement. A mass of people have said that the government should participate actively and clearly in such matters, i.e. in larger strategic positions. Active ownership is a member of the ownership policy of SV and of the red-green government, as stated in the ownership message. The review here today shows that the Minister of Industry has followed up these principles in work and in communication with Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1194	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation, where he gives a good and thorough account of both the state's ownership policy and the dialogue between the Department and Telenor. This highlighted the importance of the government managing its ownership in a professional manner, in the interests of its investment, companies and co-workers. The centre party agrees that an active ownership should be exercised by the State, and this was also established during the treatment of the ownership notification last year. In the ownership message, cap. 3.4, which deals with «Contact with the companies», and to which the Stortinget has joined, it says: ‘The framework for ownership management does not prevent the State, like other shareholders, from addressing matters that companies should consider in relation to their activities and development. The views expressed by the State in such meetings are to be seen as input to the company's administration and administration. The Board of Directors is responsible for managing the company for the benefit of all shareholders and has to make the concrete balances and decisions.» Therefore, in line with the ownership message, I believe it is natural that there are regular contact meetings with the company’s management – as a central part of the follow-up to state ownership. From the Central Party, we believe that the Council of State has done its job here. He can and should make his view clear to the company, which is also done. It is also the Stortinget that defines the framework for ownership policy and the government that exercises ownership policy within these frameworks. The County Council of Gishe has acted within the limits adopted by the Stortinge. Who owns Norwegian media is a question that takes up the red-green government. At the same time, the Council of State has always been very careful to state that these are decisions that governments themselves must take. In general, I would like to point out from the Central Party that, in our opinion, it is important that the State should be an active owner of important Norwegian companies. Through ownership, the country shall contribute to the good and stable development of the economy in the country. The state manages large values on behalf of society. It results in responsibility for the best possible exercise of ownership. In Report. St. 13 for 2010-2011, on active ownership, which was dealt with in Stortinget last year, shows expectations and requirements for the companies owned by the State either in full or in part. This is a good model, and this model is chosen to communicate what the Storting places on the government, which is the one that actually exercises ownership. The red-green parties believe that state ownership is important in a wider industrial policy perspective, by significant state ownership contributing to the development of a competitive and sustainable Norwegian business. This is both linked to the importance of ensuring national anchoring of key key companies, and to the fact that state companies are major and important actors in research, innovation and development of competences, thus contributing to driving technology development in the future. It is the government and the Storting that define ownership policy. In the case he has described today, the Council of State has acted within the State's framework and principles of state ownership policy. I would like to thank the Council of State for giving a good and neat account of both the state's ownership policy and the dialogue between the Department and Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1221	The Christian People's Party wants an active and professional state ownership. Without active ownership, it has no intention of owning the country, and without professionalism, government ownership has no legitimacy. The problem with government ownership is usually that it is passive. In this case, the government has been active, but unprofessional in the process. It is quite natural for an owner to have opinions on important strategic choices and to actively work for his or her vision. The problem here is that the government has not agreed with itself. The Prime Minister has meant one thing, the Minister of Industry another. The Prime Minister has spoken directly to Telenor, without going through the Minister of Industry, and the Minister of Industry has wanted to influence, but is perceived as threatening. In sum, this has created uncertainty about the sale of our leading commercial TV channel. There is confusion about the state's ownership of Telenor, a company with a market value of over 150 billion. kr. This insolence is serious. Responsibility must be shared by the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister. This case clearly shows that government ownership policy is not consistent. The activity of the Minister of Industry in this matter is striking, compared with the inaction he normally shows. This is well illustrated in yesterday's edition of Today's Business. Here it is pointed out that the Council of State has been passive every time the Christian People's Party has asked him to intervene, either to withdraw Statoil from climate-damaging oil sand or to prevent Telenor, along with the Russian Altimo, from establishing a common company in the tax haven of Bermuda. In the oil case, the Council of State said that it is: «to enter into such a case in breach of sound ownership management». He continued: ‘We think it’s a business question. We're going to have rather incalculable and insurmountable challenges if we're going to address that kind of pretty detailed investment strategy." Nor did the government want to prevent Telenor from establishing a company in the tax haven of Bermuda. I allow myself once again to quote the Council of State: «I must assume in the management of the State's shares in large limited-liability companies with international activities that the commercial management of the company is in the hands of the company's management and administration.» In other words, the following have been confirmed in the last days: Point 1: The government has an unpredictable and sometimes unforeseeable ownership policy that alternates between a predominantly passive and an exceptionally active ownership. Point 2: Stopping climate-damaging oil sand production or preventing tax havens is not important enough for the government to respond. This says a lot about government priorities. So finally, in the light of what has emerged in this matter, we in the Christian People's Party see that it is natural to send the presentation to the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1258	I thank you for the presentation, and for the speed with which the Council of State came to the Storting. It's good that he took a little self-criticism in the form of communication, because I'm not a moment in doubt that the Council of State has a real commitment to retaining 50 pst. of the ownership of TV 2 in Norway. Unlike his predecessors, he has reason enough not to uncritically put state money at the disposal when there is a threat of flagging something out. Which ownership is best for TV 2, however, is at best a page discussion in connection with the Council of State’s presentation today – which I will come back to at the end of this article. What is problematic in this matter is that the Council of State has acted as a private-practitioner owner in Telenor, on behalf of the Norwegian people. He obviously does not act on behalf of the government, which has repeatedly been crystal clear both orally and by SMS that it leaves the decision to sell TV 2 via the A-press to Telenor's board. Such shall also be the ownership management of Telenor, on the basis of the decisions and principles laid down by the Storing. Does this state council then promise to have any idea of the sale? Of course not. But there had obviously been an advantage if the government’s views, not its own, most private ones, and that he presented his views in other forms – not through hidden threats and text messages with content that was at best misleading. The second problem is the inconsistent policy pursued. I'm not going to repeat the previous talk – about the oil sand project and Bermuda. It was thoroughly enough explained in her posts, but the Council of State and the Red-Green politicians believe it is right to intervene with Telenor to prevent the sale of TV 2 via the A-press. The strange thing is that the pressure is being exerted against Telenor – which is a company with a number of minority victors to be taken into account by the Council of State – and not against the other main owner of the A-press, LO, with whom the Council of State is constantly meeting, both formally and informally, and which works ‘excellently’ and is the very basis for the Nordic model, which we are still hearing here in this Chamber. This case shows that the red-green ownership policy is not based on principles or political convictions, but on coincidences and private preferences. This creates uncertainty for private minority shareholders who consider investing in Telenor and other companies where the State is a dominant player. The result is that the value of companies is reduced due to ‘games, specks, rematches and all that hesitate’, which Jens Stoltenberg said was the main reason for a majority government. In addition, the action of the Council of State is directly contrary to the Government's own ownership notification and the subsequent decision of the Storting. Here it's black on white on page 27. Had I had time, I would have quoted it – but it can all be read up to – because that is perhaps what is most serious in this case: The council has obviously broken with the Stortingen guidelines for ownership management. Finally, the ownership of TV2 itself. Is it obvious that the best thing for TV 2 and Norwegian citizens is that the ownership of TV 2 is 50 pst. Danish, rather than 100 pst. Danish? For the Left, this is a reasonably irrelevant issue. Egmont should be a dreamer, seen with red-green eyes. It's a company with a proud history, with a very good economic foundation, it's characterized by soberness and long-termity, and it's a company that spends tens of millions of dollars on charitable activities, especially on disadvantaged children and young people. In the view of the Left, the sale of TV 2 to Egmont is one of the least controversial company transactions that have taken place recently. It is therefore strange that parts of government and accumulation have just made this a matter, and thus torpedoed the credibility of the exercise of state ownership. So, in line with the Christian People's Party, the Left supports the proposal to forward this matter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1277	Firstly, I think the round has been clarifying that the principles of state ownership give the opportunity to address matters in an ownership dialogue with the companies. Here, there are – and we get to admit – different views between the parties. Some people feel that they should stick to the general meeting, and others feel that they should be very active in that dialogue. But especially the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have meant that we should go much further. In a debate on 9 June 2011, Dagfinn Høybrätten said: ‘We need to control Statoil more. I know it's controversial, and we have a long Norwegian tradition that you don't get involved in business decisions, but I think we have to look at this one more time." Borghild Tenden said in a debate on 18 February 2010: ‘When the Norwegian people through the Norwegian state are owned by an enterprise, yes, then we also have to take responsibility for the fact that the operation of the company is consistent with our own conscience, and we also have to decide what type of business we think is acceptable from a social responsibility perspective.’ We're not going that far. And in the question of oil sand, I said to Stortinget that we're going to get ‘fairly unbridled and insurmountable challenges if we are to address the kind of rather detailed investment strategies. There are also other areas where CO2 emissions are high and where questions can be asked about whether it is right or wrong to enter. [[...]] This just illustrates that it's not right to go in, which is the question, and discuss matters with the companies, but that's how big they are, how detailed they are, and how important they are. I also feel that it is well established that national ownership is a legitimate goal. It's a matter where it's important to have a dialogue with the companies, and TV 2 sales is a legitimate case to deal with Telenor. I react a little to this with private practice. So this is the established position in the Biggest that you've joined in different contexts, and specifically in the Broadcasting Communication, which expressed a separate objective that national ownership is important. TV 2 was the only major broadcasting company that was Norwegian-owned, so if not that target was TV 2, I don't know who it was. Now none of the major television channels is Norwegian. That target is not met. So there's no private practice, this is an expression of Storting's policy in the documents that are relevant. Then I have also said in my introduction that the dialogue has not been good enough. That is certainly my responsibility, too. We'll learn from that and move on, and I'm sure we'll build a good and trusting cooperation with Telenor. I have also said that the text message mentioned is upresis. It's not much to do with it – but it is. At the same time, it is very clear in the same text message that we are not going to ‘instruct’ and that I want to inform you further. I think it's as clarifying as I can get it done. That's what's real. It could have been better, I also take self-criticism for that. That's what I'm saying about it. Then there is the question of ‘irregular pressure’. I have the impression that one of the arguments is – I also see it in the press and from the opposition – that the undue pressure is the extent of contact between the department and Telenor. I have now tried to explain the main elements of that contact. So I spoke to the director of Telenor once at the Rome Christmas – I tried to get hold of him several times – but there was no conversation with material content in relation to talking about TV 2. It was one call. Then my departmental council had a contact without any discussion materially about the TV 2 sale. It is possible that there is a lot, but I feel that having a close dialogue also about the process and knowing what is happening, also in order to be able to inform about the matter, is a legitimate task for a Minister of Ownership. So it's the way that the prime minister and I both agree, and that I communicate to the company, is that this is the company's responsibility, it's the board that decides, but we can come up with our reasons, as I have done as Minister of Ownership. Then we will learn from the dialogue, build trust and contact with Telenor in a good way, lower our shoulders and try to contribute to a slightly lower temperature and a good ownership dialogue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1318	This concludes the debate on the presentation. At the President's discretion, a natural further consideration of the matter would be that the statement is annexed to the Minutes, i.e. it is dealt with in accordance with § 34a(d) of the Rules of Procedure. The President then sees it as being that the representative Harald T. Nesvik suggested that the presentation of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade should be sent to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. To the extent that we then perceive it as a proposal, it will be addressed to voting – it was intended as a concrete proposal. Then the president has recorded that the Christian People's Party and the Left have expressed their support for Harald T. Nesvik's proposal – just so we can now get through some sort of explanation of vote. Then the representative, Helga Pedersen, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1329	I would like to give an explanation of vote on the proposal for transmission to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. On behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party, I would like to express our clear opinion that the Council of State's statement is both clarifying and satisfying. The reality of the matter has been thoroughly examined. What was unclear in advance was also cleared up by the presentation and the Council of State responses after the debate. The Minister of Economic Affairs has also recognised that some things could have been handled differently. Then I believe the obvious question is: What in all days is it now to be checked? There is no factual reason to use the control function of Storting in this way. I see no other reason for this proposal than that the opposition wants to keep the matter politically warm. Of course, the position parties do not want to support this, and that is why we want the matter to be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1338	The representative, Mrs Solberg, has also asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1341	We have heard a statement where the Council of State has cut quotes from among others. settings. It's not an explanatory statement, it's an explanatory statement. That is why we believe it necessary for the Storting to re-examine the principles of ownership management and to check that no new policy based on a statement and a five-minute response are now being made here, but that, on the contrary, we are thoroughly going through the fact that what is the Storting's instruction on ownership management is actually being followed. That means that we need a committee reading on this, and therefore the Right will support the proposal of the Progress Party that the presentation be submitted to the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1346	We would thus have clarified the preferences of all parties in relation to the forthcoming vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1352	As far as the President can see, the intruders also believe that we are ready to go to voting. In Case No: 1-3 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1362	The President has put forward a proposal to attach the minutes to the statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. In the course of the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party for the presentation to be sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee. An alternative is to vote between the proposal of the President and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-19.ana.ud583e1384	There is no record. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
