ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e41	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Right-wing Group to the representative of Per-Kristian Foss as from 12 January and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Afshan Rafiq, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e59	Afshan Rafiq is present and will take the seat. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e64	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to promote a document proposal on a review of the regulations of the Planning and Building Act, with a view to making it easier to rent out part of the owner-occupancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e69	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e72	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Arve Kambe and myself, I would like to make proposals for research on the positive effects of removing the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e93	Access to electricity is a socially critical function. We don't have to be long without power to label this, either as a private consumer or as a business and industrial customer. Therefore, both energy production and electricity transmission infrastructure are, of course, the primary source of electricity for own consumption. However, we have a large window of opportunity to use ourselves in energy production in Norway, a window of opportunity that – at least in a normal year – goes far beyond supplying its own citizens with the necessary electricity. We have recently entered into commitments through the accession of the EU renewable directive and the electricity certificate market with Sweden, which set a common target of 26.4 TWh new renewable power generation by 2020 in these two countries. In addition to this objective, further power generation will enter the Nordic market, inter alia. The new Finnish nuclear power plant will increase energy production in the Nordic region. We must also be able to expect greater regularity over Swedish nuclear power generation as the Swedes strengthen their maintenance and upgrade. In addition, if we take into account an unsolved potential for energy efficiency improvement, there is a lot of evidence that we are heading towards a large power surplus from 2015. Estimates of how large this surplus can be around 2020 vary from around 25 TWh to over 40 TWh. We know that the climate in Norway is expected to be warmer, more wild and more wet. This also has implications for both the supply and demand side of the power market and would like to imply that, as a large hydropower producer, we get more production capacity into a market that wants to demand less energy. Of course, expectations about electricity surpluses also have an impact on the price picture. Norway may once again appear more attractive to power-processing industries. Perhaps we can hope for investment both in existing industrial plants and in new ones. The sale of electric cars will be greater than today, and new projects on a Norwegian base would like to find both opportunities and profitability for using electricity from land. These are among the elements that can be expected to lead to an increase in domestic demand for electricity. From the right, we are committed to using the potential window available to strengthen renewable production in Norway. This industry represents important income, investment and jobs in many places in Norway. These are values for landowners, corporations, municipalities, county councils and the state, and then I'm over the background because I've chosen to raise this interpellation debate. Energy and climate are interrelated; the climate challenge cannot be resolved independently of energy. Europe has great ambitions through its renewable efforts, and Norway as a nation has the opportunity to contribute to good solutions, while exploiting the industrial and value-creating potential that lies ahead of us in further developing Norwegian renewable energy production. The EU recently presented its so-called Energy Roadmap 2050 with very ambitious plans for both greenhouse gas emission reduction, energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy production. Norway has an opportunity to help Europe achieve its objectives by strengthening its links with the European market. Half of Europe's magazine capacity is actually in Norway, and we have the opportunity to provide regulatory power that matches parts of the EU's needs for this, when they themselves build large amounts of energy based on wind and solar power. In addition, as you know, this type of energy needs to be consumed directly, and that also means an opportunity picture of the other way around, namely that we in Norway at times daily could have the opportunity to import cheap energy. In addition, this will strengthen security of supply in Norway, where we as a large hydropower producer may be vulnerable in periods of low rainfall. I am not going to go into the possibility we have in Norway to build pumping plants, but I will be careful to point out that the government and the Minister of Oil and Energy have the advantage of facilitating this possibility – by clarifying the environmental impact and the requirements to be imposed, and what framework conditions the individual operator might expect. As is known, for example, the plans for pumping plants at the Sira-Kvina plant are ice-cream due to uncertainty about profitability and framework conditions. Back to the question of foreignables. The Government and the Minister of Oil and Energy have in no way signalled any impatience after strengthening relations with the rest of the world. This concerns us in the Right, because here we are at risk of missing out on great opportunities for the Norwegian energy industry and incomes for, among other things. state and municipalities. On the contrary, the government's signals indicate that it does not intend to have an active driving role in these questions. Last year, state networks reduced their ambitions for expanding international connections due to concerns that the domestic network does not have enough capacity. There were probably several people who were somewhat surprised by the new analyses by Statnett from the Sørlandsnet network, which showed the need for extensive online upgrades before several foreign tables could be put into operation. This conclusion came after a year of analysis and was completed last summer. Now, on the one hand, it cannot be ruled out that Statnett's analyses are correct. On the other hand, we cannot rule out the political leadership behind it. It is problematic that, as I understand it, the actors are not given access to the analyses used for the conclusion. It means in many ways that the monopoly Statnett also has monopoly over defining these conclusions. Before the analyses, Statnett considered that the capacity of the Southern network was 4,200 MW, whereas after the analyses they considered that the network had only a capacity of 2000 MW, i.e. a quite significant change in perception. It is not unnatural for both power companies and cable projects to want this analytical material to be transparent. What is unnatural, on the other hand, is that Statnett does not invite greater transparency – and everyone is preferably active in getting down with the different actors to find alternative solutions to the problem, given that they themselves and the government really wanted to be active on this issue. On the contrary, secrecy of the analytical material can create undue suspicion and contribute to, inter alia, Signatories will argue that the Minister of Oil and Energy, on the basis of political motives, reduces Norway’s ability to become an active supplier of energy to Europe. We are at risk of losing industrial opportunities for our energy industry. If the Council of State was really interested in increasing the capacity of the power exchange with the rest of the world, he should ensure that the State network, in good interaction with both authorities and other actors in the power industry, sits down and discusses different alternative solutions. Perhaps a solution could be to build cables that were only partially exploited for a period of time – or there could be other solutions. It's not just us from the Right who are calling for action from the government on these issues. The energy industry itself does this, of course, and their spokesman, Energy Norway, on repeated occasions, has underlined the need for increased capacity abroad, precisely in order to take advantage of the potential Europe represents for increased efficiency, while contributing to a solution to the climate and energy challenges of our neighbouring countries. Another alliance that has been promoted with the same message is Norwegian Industry, together with Energy Norway and LO, in what they call the ‘Common Platform for Increased Value Creation’. They demand the same as the Right has done on several occasions, at the latest by a representative proposal a little over a year ago, namely a comprehensive policy on climate, energy and value creation. We have to take care of these industrial possibilities. Norwegian Industry, Energy Norway and LO represent three important organisations, and I would like to quote the following from the joint presentation they had on 6 December last year under the heading «Sharing forces»: ‘Norwegian hydropower is flexible and renewable, and a balanced exchange of power with the rest of the world provides added value and climate benefit – in addition to improved security of supply. Socio-economically profitable inter-national links must be built in a timely manner before Europe finds other solutions. We must facilitate increased value creation in the energy sector, while at the same time ensuring that industry’s needs for stable and competitive framework conditions are met.’ I want to grasp that part of the quotation that underlines the importance of the timely construction of inter-national links, before Europe finds other solutions. This is where my concern lies. We don't have time to wait for another large number in 2013, we need to use the scenario ahead of us now. We need to send the right signals both to Europe and to actors in the power industry at home. Here's right on the team with the trade union movement. Then we need a government and an oil and energy minister who agrees with us and the trade union movement, who is actively on the road to finding the solutions needed to strengthen inter-national links. State networks have major and important tasks ahead of them in the improvement of today's network infrastructure. As a state-owned monopolist, the company is likely to be extremely responsive to the political signals that may come. This is about capacity, and it's about priorities. Statnett may not have to do everything by itself; perhaps other forces should also be allowed to relieve Statnett during a period when the company has many, large tasks. A good saying is ‘where there is will, there is a way’. My wish and my call to the Council of State is to make a greater sense of impatience and activity, rather than being a brake, in order to exploit the potential of a stronger link with Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e143	I want to start by thanking the representative Meling for raising a relevant question – to the extent that it is also in a balanced way. I think that is a good basis for further debate and exchange of views on this issue. Norway is part of the Nordic power market, which in turn has links with other countries, both directly and indirectly. The exchange capacity between Norway and other countries is important for Norwegian security of supply and at the same time provides the opportunity to reserve power when there is a surplus. New international relations shall be established to the extent that they are socio-economically viable. Existing links are important for security of supply in Norway and when considering new links, the contribution to strengthening our security of supply will be an important consideration to consider. Our largest exchange capacity is to other Nordic countries. Statnet is responsible for the development of the central network. They are building a new connection to Denmark, Skagerrak 4. It is also working to strengthen links with Sweden. Last October, Statnett sent a message to the NVE about a new connection to Sweden, the so-called SouthWestlinken. Furthermore, Statnett is working on two possible foreign projects, one for Germany and one for the United Kingdom. The Norwegian force balance has shown great variation over time. The unpredictability of hydropower also means that we can have major fluctuations from year to year and within the year itself. Assessments of the evolution of the power balance in the future are associated with uncertainty. Developments in consumption may vary according to economic development, structural changes, prices and weather conditions. The degree of realisation of new production in Norway will also be affected by a number of uncertain factors. Increased production will contribute positively to security of supply of electricity in Norway. Nevertheless, the fluctuations in hydropower production will be so significant that we rely on international connections to balance these variations. Foreign connections will thus help to improve security of supply of electricity in Norway and in the countries associated with the Norwegian system, as well as to safeguard and develop the values contained in the Norwegian hydropower. Hydropower is vulnerable to annual fluctuations in rainfall even with significant storage capacity. Variations of as much as 60 TWh in Norwegian hydropower production from one year to another year – i.e. about half of normal production – are not uncommon. For example, in 2010, around 100 TWh was committed, while in 2011 there were about 150 TWh. Also unexpected events may result in energy scarcity or profit in periods, in addition to significant annual consumption variations due to temperatures and economic cycles. This year, with low production in the Nordic region due to low consumption or other conditions, or high demand for power, for example this year with cold winters, foreign connections are important for our security of supply. For example, Norway imported around 7 TWh in the winter of 2010/2011, in the weeks between 48 and 12. It's 15.6 pst. of normal production in Norway and illustrates how important links with other countries — the thermal system — can be to our security of supply. In situations of excess power, foreign connections are important, inter alia, for: ensuring that water does not go into play, such as: when the intention of unregulated power generation is high. Since June Norway has had a net export of more than 11 TWh. Through the exchange of power, it is possible to take mutual advantage of differences in production systems and consumption patterns. Norwegian hydropower usually has relatively small price variations over the day because it is reasonable and easy to regulate. However, there is a large price difference between seasons and years, depending on the amount of precipitation, temperature and transmission capacity. Other energy systems may follow a different pattern with large price variations over the clock, but less seasonal variations. Regulation of heat-based power generation is often more expensive due to high start-up costs. Building an adequate electricity transmission system is a core task of energy policy and a prerequisite for success. Statnet’s 2011 network development plan shows that the enterprise plans to invest between 40 and 50 billion. kr in the development and upgrading of new power grids in Norway over the next decade. Development needs are due to the need for improved security of electricity supplies in some areas, more renewable power generation, consumption growth, among others. in the oil sector, industry and areas with population growth, and avoiding regional imbalances. In other words, it is necessary and very gratifying that Norway is now seriously upgrading the infrastructure in terms of network transmission. Foreign trade requires a robust transmission system. Developments in the transfer capacity to the rest of the world must therefore be seen in the context of the development of the domestic network and the domestic market. State networks have recently conducted a study in which they have assessed what is required and will be technically feasible for the connection of new foreign connections to South Africa over the next decade. The study shows that, in addition to the decided cable for Denmark — perhaps the one already being built — it is possible to connect another cable in 2018 and one in 2021, given that the Sørland power grid is strengthened and that the necessary concessions are given to these projects. This is the background to Statnet’s ongoing work on possible international relations with the United Kingdom and Germany. The need for networks and network reinforcements is more relevant than ever. The network is crucial for the supply of power and the development of power markets in the years to come. At the same time, as we all know, it is demanding and long-term processes with considerable attention, including: in the media and in the community. It should also perhaps be lacking – these are large infrastructure projects that are shown. That is the background for the planned grid expansion message. There is a big message I look forward to presenting, and there I will challenge a broad majority of the Storting to endorse the overall strategies and to commit to the importance and necessity of building up the central network. It is true that there has not always been as much excitement in this room about the concrete projects that have been about the importance of expansion in general. In addition, there is a reduced energy range under the direction of Olav Akselsen. The sample shall identify and assess key factors affecting the energy and power balance in Norway, including: production, consumption, network expansion and exchange of power with the rest of the world. Work shall be completed in March of this year. Norway has been part of an international power market since the Nea–Järp stream was built in 1960. We're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e171	I would like to thank the Council of State for his contributions, but at the same time I must say that it was not a matter of the great surprises. Unfortunately, it was not a post that revealed that we must expect a more ongoing, more active oil and energy minister to raise the capacity for power exchange with the rest of the world. The Council of State referred to projects planned by Statnet to reach 2021, but it does not change the fact that Statnet has reduced its level of ambition quite so strongly. They choose to push NorNed 2 in the uncertain, while relations with Sweden, Germany and England are delayed by up to three years. They indicate in their network development plan that there is room for two cables with a total of 2000 MW power – one operating from 2018, the other operating from 2021. The question is whether this is a level of ambition with which the government, government and government parties – the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Left Party – can be satisfied. So it was planned and notified about 7 000 MW of increased cable capacity with the rest of the world, but now at best around 2000 MW will be in place during 2021. In my post, I suspect that there are political motives that lie behind, perhaps as much as challenges on the website, because it is clear that they can be solved by Statnett and by others if one provides priorities and resources enough. We have an oil and energy minister who has not previously revealed that he wants to increase capacity abroad, on the contrary, in a lecture he gave on the Blind, he has believed that the gas could be this basis for regulatory power to Europe, rather than the possibilities we have in renewable energy production. So my suspicion of the government and the Council of State for having more political motives than insoluble technical problems to increase the exchange of power with the rest of the world has not diminished since the post that the Council of State held just. I hope that the Council of State can cancel it, and that he makes it visible that he wants to be more active in the future in order to establish an increased link with the rest of the world, greater than the one that Statnet is now using in its network development plan, perhaps by allowing other actors than Statnet to get on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e182	I don't think it's a worse level of ambition or a lower level of ambition that we're putting on in terms of the development of new exchange capacity with the rest of the world. A large amount of work has just been done in Central Norway – Nea–Järpströmmen – new, large transmission capacity. There are planning major projects in the north. It's under construction a new cable for the Netherlands. A new, large high-speed line — the north-west link to Sweden — has been reported and it has been said that there is capacity for additional connections both to England and to Germany over a decade. In this case, by realising it, there is a rate of exchange capacity expansion with the rest of the world that Norway has never experienced before. I am therefore a little surprised that it is called bad and “fislat” and little ambitious. I would also like to reject the fact that it is the Ministry, the Council of State or the Government that has presented the Web Development Plan, which is the technical limitations of our central network. I think we've all learned a lot about the central network in the last few years, not least lately, and I think I'm getting an understanding in this room that those constraints are not politically adopted. It's simply a function of physical laws. It will continue to be like that in the future. Of course, the Right and the representative Meling are free to increase their capacity in addition to the potential study contained in Statnet’s network development plan, but in this case it will require significantly increased investment in the central network, multiple high-spent masters and new lines in large parts of the country. I think that is a fair choice, but then you also have to communicate what it will mean by investments and costs. Government policy is based on new foreign tables being socially viable. I also want to say that we are now facing a change of pace in the rate of expansion on our central network. I hope to have the consent of Storting. We're going to invest between 40 billion. kr and 50 brd. kr – the necessary billions – in the years to come. It's going to require us to pull together, and that we stand together to be clear on the need for these investments in the time to come. So I'm going to end by saying that in the case of foreign tables, I'm of the opinion that there should be a task that belongs to the system operator – i.e. Statnet in our case – both because it is relevant to have control of this, and because the value creation should benefit the community and consumers through lower network rental.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e197	The representative Meling takes up an important and challenging, but also an interesting, area. For years to come, we will have a large increase in renewable energy production as a result of the Norwegian-Swedish energy market and the renewable directive. In addition, we must now, as before, ensure a satisfactory security of supply. Then we need a better power grid. There have been little investments in the network in the last 20 years, and the network is a lot of space spent. The knit is made so that parts of the country have too poor security of supply. We need better networks both here in the country and between Norway and the rest of the world. The situation in some winters shows the benefits we have had of the online connection with Sweden. As the Council of State did well in its contribution, there is now a completely different offensive for network expansion. Statnett is building a new connection with Denmark, and it is working to strengthen its link with Sweden. One is working on possible foreign projects, one for Germany and one for the United Kingdom. Statnett’s development plan shows that a plan of large expansions and upgrades of the electricity grid in Norway. This is important to be implemented. But it is, as we experience, demanding, not only resourceful, but also with regard to construction, nature and the environment. It is important that the Council of State will now provide an online message that provides us with a good basis for discussing these challenges. 2011 has been a record year for power exchange with the rest of the world. Imports were record high in the first four months of the year. Total imports in January amounted to over 2 TWh. Imports turned to exports during June, and we have never had higher exports of power for the month of July. Power import failed to maintain security of supply. At the same time, we see how power producers can maintain production when it is largely satisfied that large quantities of power are exported. This shows the importance of wiring, infrastructure between Norway and the rest of the world, so that we get a necessary power exchange. If we are to trigger new renewable power generation, realize many of the plans that the power builders are working on, we need to make sure that there will be a market for power. I totally agree with the representative, Meling. Of course, it is true that there must then be an infrastructure both inland and between Norway and the rest of the world that can distribute the power. There is an important climate and environmental contribution on Norwegian pure renewable energy that can replace impurising coal power in Europe otherwise. But it's not just about it. We see that one down in Europe is building up a lot of wind and solar energy, wind and solar energy that produces a lot when it's sun and wind enough. These countries are also dependent on few exported forces during such periods. Wind and solar energy cannot be magnified like the force of water. Therefore, it is important that Norway and Sweden are a market for the strength that these countries are now building up. That means there will be a bigger market for wind and solar energy. This market is an important contribution to increasing the production of new renewable energy. At the same time, these countries are important markets for our hydropower when we have overproduction, i.e. a power exchange that provides a win-win situation for all of us, but perhaps most for Norway, which in some cases can sell and buy cheaply. You can ask a lot of questions about how to expect the future situation. The representative Meling was also within it. Is it that in 2020 we will have a very large force surplus in the North? An analysis by Adapt, a competent company on energy issues, estimates that a Nordic market will be around 400 TWh renewable energy, and that we can get a production of approx. 440 TWh, i.e. an overproduction of 40 TWh, approx. 10 pst. How much do you want to raise your exports? Can we use more ourselves, do we need more ourselves? Yes, something goes to the ambitions of electrifying the car park, there is talk that some things can go to offshore, but an important question is: Can we use this for new business, value creation in e.g. Power-requiring industry? If we export, it must necessarily happen as an electron, or it can happen in the form of an electrically intensive product like this. aluminium? Can we give power-intensive industry new, great opportunities without being stopped by EEA rules? I think there are many major challenges and opportunities in renewable energy can give us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e218	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant Meling for addressing a very central and topical theme on how we will deal with future surpluses of electricity based on renewable energy sources. The aid scheme with electricity certificates was put into effect from January of this year and is planned to provide 26.4 TWh to Sweden and Norway together by 2020. The party’s view of technology neutrality in the electricity licence market was finally put into effect. For a long time it seemed that hydropower would not qualify for the certificates. Climate policy has made attention to renewable electricity production increasingly topical. The EU climate targets by 2020 include, inter alia: the requirement for all countries to have 20 pst by 2020. renewable electricity production in its energy portfolio. Many EU countries are unable to meet that objective. This requirement is also applicable to Norway under the EEA Agreement. Today, the renewable share for Norway is above 60 p.m. and the Stortinget has adopted a target of 67,5 p.m. renewable by 2020. This is clearly the highest share of renewables across Europe. The certificate scheme launched from January will, due to its technology neutrality, initially grant the cheapest electricity that can be produced. This is likely to be hydropower in most cases. Several investigations in recent years show that there will be a significant surplus of power in the country. Renewable power generation, together with energy savings and the closure of some powerful old industries, will be the main cause of the surplus. The Progress Party will work to ensure that the situation that arose during the winter 2010–2011 period, with poor power supply and sky-high prices for some periods, will not happen again. It is therefore important that a lot be invested, not only on a core network, but also on a distribution network. In this way, Statnett's plans for investment are 50 billion. kr by 2030, something the Progress Party will support. Some core networks that should have been completed now or earlier are still far from finished. One of the main reasons for these delays is the great resistance to the new core networks, cf. all attention to sample masts in Hardanger. The Progress Party supports the Secretary of State for Oil and Energy, Mr Borten Moe, for the construction of the core networks. Natural interventions shall be minimised, but costs shall control the development. Several politicians have suggested that Norway should become Europe’s green battery, without clear investigations into what this will mean for initial investment both on land and in the form of cables. The EU's need for development force against stationary wind turbines is so enormous that even with full cable switching to the continent, Norway's green battery contribution will be relatively modest. The Progress Party will propose that the government start work on a big-time message that is far-fetched as soon as possible. This includes all elements showing future power surpluses, necessary grids, both mains and local networks – the latest for electricity supply to consumers, but also for transporting new renewable power to the core network. The notification should also cover supply to existing industry on land and offshore, and not least, as the representative Rudihagen also said, to newly developed industry, to which it should be stimulated. Norwegian aluminium production is the purest in the world. With energy from renewable sources, the Norwegian industry emits approx. 10 pst. of the aluminium produced with coal as an energy carrier, so it is important. The message must clarify all elements of the exchange of power towards the continent and what such cables mean for the country and for the individual consumer. Will it, for example? does the electricity price to households double? The Communication should also discuss who can stand as a cable builder. Is it just public or can private operators build and operate these cables? Only when such a notification is available will the Storting be able to deal satisfactorily with the questions raised by the interpellant today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e244	It's an important interpellation representative Siri A. Meling's taking up. Norway is ahead of one of the largest renewable energy deployments of the time. We also see that we are facing a huge surplus of power both in Norway and in the Nordic countries. When, in addition, we have a government council that casts considerable doubt on what we're going to use all this energy for, it's important that there's a debate about this here in Stortinget. Exactly two years ago, I had an interpellation about a European supermarket network in a sea cable to Europe. It was related to the lack of a thorough review of the Internet policy, not least in relation to this cable abroad. On the same day, former Riis-Johansen State Council signed a Memorandum of Cooperation to strengthen regional cooperation on marine network development in the North Sea. What has happened since this? Very little. What seemed to be an optimistic approach to an exciting partnership seems to have crumbled away in the corridors of the ministry. I hope that the Council of State can take advantage of this opportunity to provide information on where this matter stands and what progress has been made today. For our own security of supply, it is important that we have both a reasonable deployment of energy and adequate online capacity both domestically and abroad. Norway is a major producer of clean renewable energy in Europe. It's claimed with weight that we're Europe's battery when it comes to power. Water power, of which we have a lot in our country, is an important stabiliser in the European power market. It will be a decisive complement to current and future wind power both at land and at sea. NVE states that by 2020 the Nordic power balance will show a surplus of 25-40 TWh per year. Of these, Norway could have an excess of up to 12 TWh. The new scheme of green certificates, which was launched on 1 January 2012, will also be an important signal for increasing renewable energy production in Norway. All of this shows that we need a lot of capacity to deal with the export of energy. If we want to facilitate a commitment to the export of renewable energy, and we think that this will also represent a future industrial potential for Norwegian operators, this can provide great opportunities. Norway contributes renewable energy to Europe, thereby reducing climate change. We are further developing our role as an energy storm power and a stable energy supplier to Europe. We get a great and forward-looking value creation, industrialisation and business development. Cables to Europe mean both exports and imports of electricity. High capacity towards Europe will generate very high revenues for the country and owners of power generation and line networks. With good capacity towards Europe, we can import cheap energy at night, when the wind turbines produce too full and Europe sleeps, and we can export by day when the price is high. Today we export approx. 6 pst. of our production. Even with a doubling of the cable connection, the capacity will not exceed the lower edge of 12 pst. There is an open question about how this will affect the price, but cheap imports can help to even out the price domestically. The cable connection to the Netherlands, NorNed, had an income of 200 million. NOK 2 months. It is paid down in four to five years. With a lifetime of several decades, this is a good impression that this is a very good investment. If there are several cables both to the continent and to the United Kingdom, it will also open to electrify the socket. There is already a strong signal from the Minister's side that there will be demands for electrification of the new big findings in the North Sea. Aldous/Avaldsnes and the new findings increase the life span of oil and gas by several decades. If the Minister’s request for electrification of new fields in the North Sea is to be carried out, it will mean long-term supply of electricity. On the other side of the North Sea there are large sea windmills. On Sheringham Shoal, 12 nautical miles off the east coast of England, it is to be built over 80 wind turbines. Far north – and east – lies Doggerbank, where a huge field of windmills is planned to be built. The field is of size with the entire Eastern Agder state. If we see all of this in context and think that this should also be linked by sea cables from Norway to England, it opens up exciting possibilities – imports and exports of power to England, electrification of installations in the North Sea and Norwegian hydroelectric power as balancing force against large sea winds on the English side. The only thing missing is a Council of State and a government that raises its eyes and has the ability and the will to facilitate Norway to remain a power of pure renewable energy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e272	Energy-efficient Norway is a very lucky country. We've never been dependent on limited, polluting and contentious resources to produce our own power. Norwegian industrial construction and energy policy go hand in hand, and one of our historic competitive advantages has been the pure power with which we have been able to produce goods. It's still like that. This will be even more so in the future when we are now part of the common market for green certificates and with our connection to the EU's renewable directive. The development of new renewable energy ensures clean energy for industry and enables the electrification of currently fossil sectors, which were also the subject of the previous debate. Norway has become a country at the forefront of the introduction and testing of new technologies, for example: in the car park. The share of electric cars is increasing faster than expected and will increase more in the future when new generations of electric cars with wider applications are placed on the market. We are in the luxury position that we have more than enough access to renewable energy to be able to replace the fossil car park to a large extent. The same applies to Norwegian pedestal. We have the ability to power oil production from land instead of inefficient gas turbines. There will be considerable resource savings, a much better climate profile for oil and gas production and increased safety for workers on the base. With forward-looking interventions in these two sectors, we will be able to reduce Norwegian emissions by several million tonnes of CO2 and, in addition, to increase safety, less particulate pollution and other disadvantages associated with fossil energy, as well as contributing to further extraction in existing fields. The key to getting to this is infrastructure. Statnett plans to invest up to 50 billion. kr in the network over the next ten-year period. This is absolutely necessary investment, after many years of neglect. With the early 1990s energy law, investments in the network fell steadily until, at the beginning of this millennium, almost no money was spent online in Norway at all. Our web today is not well enough to provide satisfactory security. Before Christmas, the Minister of Oil and Energy visited Elkem Thamshavn and announced the construction of the Ørskog-Sogndal line. I was so lucky to be here, both because it is an important matter for our part of the country, and because it is an example of a well-implemented job by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, where local recordings are listened to, and where the need for the line has been well communicated. In the next online message, the government will review central network planning and construction policy. These are difficult processes, and they can, as the members of our committee know well, cause a lot of noise. That's why a very important message from the government is coming forward soon. It is important that the increased production of power does not lead to locked forces in Norway. It will reduce the production of new renewable energy and also reduce incentives for good energy saving policies. When it gets extra cold and the power peaks get high in Norway, our vulnerabilities appear, with heavy price jumps and a lot of uncertainty and heated debate. The members of our committee will remember the committee trip we had to London while the power crisis was at its most intense in Middle Norway, where it cost up to $70 to take a shower in parts of the country. Such situations show us the vulnerability of poor network capacity and poor connection to our neighbouring countries. The upgrade of the Nea–Järpstream was a very important part of resolving the situation for Middle Norway. We live in a mutual utility relationship with our neighbours in terms of power. Our power is regulated, and therefore very valuable to a Europe that, in its transition to cleaner and more renewable energy, needs to be reregulated and more stable. In addition, such an exchange has great value for us and strengthens our own security of supply and the value of our own controllable power. It is good, and as the Council of State has pointed out, this is followed up by the development of new lines to the rest of the world, and that is important. The fact that there are technical constraints on our central network should not be a surprise, and I would warn a little against putting too much policy into it, cf. the exchange between the representative Meling and the Council of State earlier in the debate. There's a lot of consensus in the hall, I understand, about the need for a strong central network and exchange with the rest of the world, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e294	The centre party has worked for many years for more renewable energy production because we have the resources – our country has large unused resources within water, within wind, within bio and within all these areas of immature technologies: wave, tide, offshore wind and others, which are not yet commercially viable. Everything facilitates our being – and should be – a major and important contributor to more renewable energy, both in our own countries and beyond. So it's that the world needs pure energy. To solve the climate challenges, we need to dramatically reduce our fossil energy use and replace it with renewable energy. And then it's like this that the production of renewable energy creates opportunities, it creates values, it creates employment across our country. It has been a change of pace from the red-green government when it comes to investing in renewable energy production and investing in research and development in this field. That's the Center Party proud of. Before energy efficiency is increased, there is also a great deal of progress. It's also an area of great potential. In sum, this gives great amounts of power – and pure power – in our country. Therefore, renewable efforts and energy efficiency improvements need to be seen in the context of energy use and infrastructure, electricity lines to bring this power forward. These three pillars must be invested in parallel, i.e. energy production, lines and energy use. Excessive bets on one of them will be unfortunate compared to the other. A force surplus, if any, gives rise to great potential for the existing industry and for the further processing of power, on which the representative Skumsvoll was involved, and it gives opportunities for new industries. Data storage is an example - renewable energy use to operate large data storage facilities in a much cleaner way than what is happening around the world today. And then it offers opportunities to implement climate action such as: electrification of more of the transport sector and of the petroleum activity, which has been mentioned. Then it's important to relate to the rest of the world, and then good infrastructure is important in Norway. In that context, I would like to challenge both the interpellant and the representative Solute flour. I share the commitment you have in order to have good international connections that are reasonable, but it is also such that it needs to be heavily invested in Norway to bring forward forces and secure parts of the country that do not currently have sufficient supply capacity. If you want to export more stream, the grid must also be secured in Norway. What we've seen in the inter-pellant's party in that area over the last few years are constant markings against powerline construction. Sogn and Fjordane have been mentioned before, but also Hordaland – Hardanger. The right-wing urban council in Bergen has in no way shown the same enthusiasm for this important infrastructure as it is expressed here. In this way, it's good that a person has an increased focus on this. If a market does not exist for the use of power, or the lack of infrastructure makes it inaccessible, the focus on more renewable energy production will also stop. Therefore, these links are important both domestically and cross-border. Security of supply is another factor that is mentioned. The force can go both ways on these lines, and so has it in the later years. There is security of domestic and foreign power supply. We in the Center Party believe that Norway has to put even greater emphasis on both production and infrastructure and to help develop electricity markets. It is both good climate policy and very good industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e311	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for an important debate. What we are going to use the increased renewable energy is important. Indeed, it is not that producing more renewable energy itself means reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I would also like to remind you that another objective, namely to increase energy efficiency in Norwegian construction, can be undermined if there is no clear strategy in this area. The EU renewable directive covers electricity, heating/cooling and transport. This is an extension of the 2001 renewable directive, which only covers electricity. The aim of the Directive is to establish a common framework for the promotion of renewable energy sources with an overall EU target of 20 pst. share in 2020. In addition, there will be a binding target of 10 pst. renewable share in transport. For the Left, it is important to stress that if we do this correctly, the EU renewable directive can help Norway reduce CO2 emissions by several million tonnes – equivalent emissions from several million passenger cars. Norway is particularly well placed to increase the production of renewable energy. Hydropower has already given us a relatively high renewable share, and its potential is significant, inter alia, within the framework of the EU. wind power. We have a lot of wind scattered over large areas. These conditions also facilitate the generation of electricity from biogas, waves, tides and salt power. The left assumes that Norway implements energy efficiency improvement measures in parallel with conversion and increased renewable energy production. Energy efficiency measures must lead to a reduction in total energy consumption. Such an ambitious follow-up to the implementation of the EU renewable directive results in a reduction in CO2 emissions in Norway. An overview of the main impacts of increased production and use of renewable energy shows that EU requirements can help Norway reduce greenhouse gas emissions by several million tonnes of CO2 by 2020. As a result, Norway can be on a good path to achieving the climate targets adopted by the Stortinget. The left considers that part of the new energy must be used to implement electrification measures in the petroleum sector. In order to implement the measures identified by the Directorate of Oil Management in Climate Change 2020, 8.1 TWh of renewable electricity is needed. In addition, fossil sources of heating account for a significant proportion of the heating demand in Norwegian buildings. 6 pst. total energy consumption in barley comes from heating oil or kerosene, and 2,5 pst. comes from fossil gas. In total, the sales of heating oils account for around 600000 litres per year, which alone emit 1.6 million. tonnes of CO2. Together with emissions from gas and other petroleum products used for heating, the total emissions from the heating of barley are estimated to be 2 million. tonnes of CO2 annually. Bioenergy can phase out 5 TWh fuel oil in industry. This could result in a reduction in CO2 emissions of approximately 1,5 million. tonnes. When you also know that there is a need for more power to electrify larger parts of the car fleet in the time to come, it is clear that there is a need for more power in the Norwegian market. But there is equally a need to create a stable electricity supply market for Europe. Norway needs better links to the continent. Norway can play a significant role in Europe as a supplier of clean renewable energy. In order to achieve this, work needs to be intensified in order to establish new and improved transmission cables to the continent and the United Kingdom, which many people have experienced in the past. New cables to Europe also require new power lines in Norway, especially in South Norway, but also transmission lines from surplus countries such as Sogn and Fjordane, which have now limited power. High transmission capacity towards the rest of the world also helps to make the energy market more efficient, to make clean renewable energy available in a larger area, and to give energy a price that counteracts waste. To sum up, the left is to use new renewable energy to replace fossil energy in Norway, while exporting energy to Europe to help reduce fossil energy use there. It is good policy and economy for Norway, for Norwegian consumers and for our European neighbours.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e347	I want to start by thanking you for some interesting contributions from the different representatives. I also want to say that what is happening now is incredibly positive: we are now getting a big investment in the development of new renewable energy. It's true, as the Council of State says, that we now have a rate of expansion that is very high in renewable energy, and with the electricity certification system in place, it's clear that there's a lot of interest. The restriction may only be to ensure that we have the applications processed quickly enough for them to be realised by 2020. That we are getting an increased investment in renewable production is positive, and it is also positive with the investment we have in infrastructure construction on our domestic power grid. So the Council of State says that the analysis of Statnet's capacity in the network is not political constraints, but physical laws. It may well be right, as I also said in my post, but one thing is the professional basis of what is at the root of the day in terms of our infrastructure, another thing is what we politically choose to do with it. That's the question, the challenge we address to the oil and energy minister and to the government: what do we choose to do with it? The state network has now chosen to reduce its level of ambition in relation to increased power exchanges with the rest of the world. We're getting an increase towards 2021 of about 2,000 MW. The right-hand wish was that it should be much higher, and there were plans of about 7 000 MW. So it's a reduced level of ambition. If the Minister of Oil and Energy chooses to put pressure on repairing what needs to be done by settling down with Statnet, other authorities, other power companies and those interested in cable projects, etc. To find alternative solutions with the physical starting point we have, it is fully possible if it is willful, and if there is priority for this. Then we have a government and a government council that doesn't hide that they want it to be Statnett that builds out and owns the foreign tables. Of course, it's a choice. We point out that there may be alternatives, just to speed up capacity expansion. If the Council of State is concerned about the price development of increased capacity utilisation, I ask the Council of State to study the analysis entitled «Future force balance and prices in Norway and the Nordic countries», published by THEMA Consulting Group, which was also presented on 6 December at the Folkets Hus here in Oslo. It shows that the price effect of cables is moderate, so the fear of prices may have, can be completely unfounded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e358	Let me first thank you for a sobering change of words around an important topic. Let me start with the Progress Party, which called for further analyses related to Norway’s potential as a green battery – what it will mean for investment in infrastructure – and other socio-economic analyses, if I read the representative’s articles correctly. There's a video that I'm taking with me, and that I think is good. I am considering submitting a major report on Norwegian energy policy after the Energy Committee comes with its suspension later this year. In this case, Stortinget will have a wide opportunity to study both analyses and discuss all the issues raised by the representative. I agree that this is important and relevant. Let me just give two reflections on Norway's role as a green battery: I have nothing against increased capacity, as I have explained, but I think we should think about – a little in terms of size – that Germany alone, if I am not completely wrong, with its plans for investing in renewable energy will need regulatory power in the order of 70 GW. Norway has an installed capacity of less than 30 GW. So in addition, the rest of Europe. Without predicting too much into the future, it is not unreasonable to think that Europe needs to be able to find exchange capacity that is not about Norwegian renewable energy. Then I've dared to say that I think gas can be part of that strategy, and I'm on it. I am pleased to have a strong connection to the high expansion rate on the web. I also hope that I have an obligation to do so in relation to the individual cases. I think it is a real choice – at least a real priority – to say what we should give priority to. In the case of large net investments in the future, meeting the major national needs is the first. Now we're building in the West. There's still a lot of needs around Bergen. We're going to build between Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal. There is a huge project in the north to ensure our northernmost part of the country access to central networks and critical infrastructure, and there are many other network reinforcement projects. I believe it is the main task of Statnett to ensure Norway a good, up-to-date and modern utility network and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e369	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e383	For almost 100 years, the Labour Dispute Act has been an essential part of Norwegian labour law. Our first law of employment saw the light of day as early as 1915. Today, however, when we adopt a new and revised Labour Dispute Act, it is the Labour Dispute Act of 1927 that is replaced by a more modern version. Yeah, it's modernizing. The law we adopt today is a continuation of the law of 1927, but in a simpler and better-organised form that at the same time reflects the practice developed by the social partners and labour law over a period of just under a hundred years. The Labour Dispute Act is important for the social partners and for Norwegian working life. I believe that the law is much of the basis for well-developed cooperation between the Norwegian working parties, precisely because it provides rules on the form, content and legal protection of the collective agreement, and because it provides rules on the resolution of conflicts of interest between the parties. The starting point of the law is that the social partners are equal and have the freedom to regulate pay and working conditions through negotiations and collective bargaining agreements. The law presupposes that labour struggle, i.e. strike and lockout, are legitimate means of combat in conflicts, but then according to specified rules on procedure, deadlines and mediation. At the same time, the aim of the law is to contribute to labour peace during collective bargaining by resolving disputes without the use of means of combat. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee is behind the vote, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has its own proposals on a few points. I assume that the party itself will justify its proposals. In the international context, the system we have developed in the Nordic countries is quite unique. In other countries that do not have equivalent legislation, the relationship between social partners is much more difficult. Now I do not claim that this alone is the result of labour disputes legislation, but it has certainly contributed. Modernisation of the Labour Dispute Act means that the law becomes technology- and gender-neutral. The most visible expression for this update may be that ‘the ricksman’ — which is a woman — is then changed to ‘the ricksman’. Today, we are also going to adopt a new law on pay in labour disputes. It is a small special law with few provisions that complements the Labour Dispute Act. The law makes the National Labour Code available to the parties if they wish to settle a dispute by voluntary remuneration. The present legislative proposal is a simplification and linguistic and technical update of the existing law. The content has not changed significantly. Then I need to stress the historical anchoring of labour law as an arbitration court for the social partners and that labour law is retained as a special court under the Ministry of Labour. It is entirely in line with the wishes of the parties, and that means that the Labour Court is not placed under the administration of the courts. Not least for this reason, it is important to contribute to the strengthening of a relatively small Norwegian labour law professional environment through increased capacity in the Labour Law and through the cooperation of the Labour Law with the Borgarting Lawyers and other courts. Labour law may thus benefit from other jurisdictions and vice versa. It is also important to support and develop the labour law professional community at the University of Oslo. Finally, I would like to say that the majority of the committee, all except the Advance Party, in agreement with the Ministry, makes an addition to the government's proposal. During the committee hearing, the Landsorganisation in Norway asked for an addendum to Section 20. The addendum is, in effect, a continuation of existing law and, in short, means that national brokers or a circuitry should still have the possibility of mediation by contractual requirements against unorganised enterprises before any termination of the site.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e404	Promises have to be renewed like everything else in society, and the legal basis in this case finds a whole way back to 1927 and 1958, so one might say it's time. Mostly, the whole committee is in agreement with this proposal as a whole, and I just want to go through the specific comments made by the Progress Party. What we are aiming for then is primarily this with mediation before labour law, where the committee's plurality will have an informal mediation practice. It doesn't want the Progress Party, because one with it creates less trust and security so that the process is done in the best possible way. Why not have a similar practice, as one operates in the other courts? When it's about party help, we also have a slightly different approach. Now it is such that a single person can bring a case before two courts. This has not been a big dilemma and will probably not be in the future. But yet, to be absolutely sure, one must be aware that if this happens, it is very unfortunate, and it can lead to very difficult situations. That is why we are making an own proposal for this, which means that one must choose. Finally, I would like to mention that the Progress Party is very positive in terms of efficiency in general, including when it comes to processing time, as well as making it easier for everyone to understand. However, the time limit should not be so short that good and holistic procedures will again be affected. I finally take up the proposals from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e419	The representative Laila Marie Reiertsen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e422	The Labour Dispute Act is an important law for Norwegian working life. The applicable law of 1927, which is based mainly on our first employment dispute law of 1915, has been a law that is laborious. The law has mainly worked well, and there have been no significant changes over the years. The social partners are central to this legal area. The main organisations, the head of labour law and the Riksmeklingsmann have been involved in the work of a new law through a reference group, and we have had good cooperation. Other good forces, including judges and professors, have also contributed well. The 1996 Labour Law Council and the 2001 Staff Committee discussed the need for substantive legislative changes. However, after long and heated discussions, only minor material changes were made. The old law, however, bears the mark that it's almost 100 years old. In addition, employment has changed over the last few years, and many new organisations have emerged. New and inexperienced users find it difficult to identify in the Labour Dispute Act, and there are many questions they do not give direct answers to. On this basis, the Ministry has carried out a technical and linguistic modernisation of the law. There is a new legal structure, and titles and concepts in the law are made gender neutral. We now get, as mentioned, our first nation's brokers. The Law has been simplified by repealing provisions of the Law of 1927 which are not of practical importance. Together with a proposal to repeal an obsolete paragraph on the activities of the national broker, the existing provisions opening the procedure for the award of mediation without all the conditions laid down in the law were also proposed. This was a misunderstanding, which LO also pointed out at the hearing on 8 December. In many local cases, a trade union tries to establish a collective agreement with the employer without success. Mediation can then be convened in the circuit concerned, and disputes can be resolved without the need to notify notice of termination. I am pleased that the Committee proposes that a provision to this effect be incorporated into the new law. The Rules of Procedure of the Labour Law of the applicable Labour Dispute Law copied to some extent the provisions of the old Law on Disputes, which has now been replaced by a new Law on Dispute. We have gone through the new dispute law and looked at what provisions there are necessary or desirable to include in the new labour dispute law. An important objective has been to contribute to the efficiency of the resolution of cases before labour law. The issue of the administrative link of the Labour Court has been considered in the light of the extensive changes in the organisation of the Norwegian courts that have been carried out. In particular, in the light of a 2007 consultation, the Government proposes that the Labour Court should continue to have an administrative link with the Ministry of Labour. Labour law is a small court, and it is important to ensure that it is as robust and professionally attractive a job as possible. This is the background to the proposal that the Labour Court should have three permanent judges on a full-time basis. The government also proposes a new law on pay in labour disputes. Relatively extensive simplifications and linguistic and technical changes have been made in relation to the applicable law. Finally, I would like to point out that there has been an important premise for the work that the new law will be more transparent, easy to understand and easier to find in. I believe that we have done this without weakening the freedom of agreement and the parties' operating space. I therefore expect the new law to be as durable as the old law has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e445	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e463	Up to 500 million people now have the opportunity to obtain the right to Norwegian welfare goods. ‘One day’s work in Norway is enough. Norwegian politicians must take over.’ It's not a quote from me. It is a researcher and member of the Brochmann Committee, Knut Røed, who says this to the newspaper on 26 May 2011. We know that the EEA Agreement, which was concluded in 1994, has led to a Norwegian adaptation to the EU which far exceeds what was then seen separately. Without going into that debate now, we are, of course, eagerly awaiting the final report of the European Committee of the Regions, which has been announced at the end of this month. We will then probably get a closer look at the agreements that Norway has concluded since 1994 and up to today. What I am concerned about is travelling this interpellation, is not attacking that we have labour immigration from EEA countries. The Progress Party is in favour of a free labour market, of people with different competences moving freely across borders and contributing to value creation. We think that is positive. We know that Norwegian knowledge travels out of Norway, is in Europe, in other countries, and contributes to value creation, and we know that the opposite happens. But what is perhaps the most important thing is to be aware of what kind of labour Norway should attract in the future. What kind of people are you looking for in the Norwegian labour market? Aren't those that you see have a lot to contribute to? I note that Abelia has also raised that debate in the past. Then we see, and that is the big challenge, that the EEA Agreement is increasingly taking action not only on how to shape Norwegian employment, but also on how to design Norwegian welfare policies. If I do not remember correctly, from 2004 to 2008, we have had a double export of social security benefits out of Norway and into the EEA territory – from 2.2 billion. DKK to SEK 4,3 billion. So maybe a lot of people would say that this is because the Norwegians are taking their pensions out. Yes, the main emphasis is the Nordics who take their pension out, but we have also had a significant increase in the form of work-related benefits. So let me, without drawing a scare image or a dark picture, take for me two or three issues at first. While Norway has good welfare arrangements – something we should be pleased about, which we should continue to develop and take good care of; I think all of them in this Chamber agree – we see an increasing concern in Europe. We see that unemployment is increasing, we see that welfare benefits are being changed, reduced and weakened, and we see that more and more from countries such as Spain, Greece and Italy are taking Norwegian courses and are seeking to come to Norway. At the same time, we see that many people come here for a short stay and see the possibility of obtaining Norwegian welfare benefits, such as cash support and child welfare, sent home to their country of origin. It is a challenge we are going to take seriously, because I do not think we can – to put it at the forefront – be Europe's new social security office, while maintaining the well-being of our own country. That task becomes too demanding, also for Norway, and therefore I think we need to be willing to take some action. In the past, we had rules when it came to daily allowances, which we were forced to change through the EEA Agreement. If you have a previous vesting period in Europe, you can come to Norway and in theory work one day – I stress that it is if you have a previous vesting period – and if you are going to be unemployed in Norway after one day, you take the Norwegian benefits back to your home country, and the Norwegian level of benefits will, for example, be. in Greece or Spain give a completely different purchasing power than in Norway. We can look at the cash support, as we know, giving one monthly income equal to 18 hours of work for a Norwegian industrial worker, 28 hours for a Swedish, 49 hours for a Spanish and 150 hours for a Polish industrial worker. The child's unemployment rate gives a monthly income equal to 5 hours of work for a Norwegian industrial worker, 14 hours for a Spanish worker and 44 hours for a Polish worker. We also see that for a Bulgarian who comes to Norway, the cash support sent home can amount to almost a half-yearly salary in Bulgaria. These are things to take seriously, and as you should, and should, look at – how to avoid attracting welfare refugees. I want us to attract skilled labour from Europe, and those who come to Norway – let it be clear – have the same rights as a Northman. One who comes from Poland, or from Bulgaria or Spain, who lives in Volda and works in Volda – one who comes as a work immigrant from the EEA region, becomes unemployed in Volda and continues to be in Volda – should, of course, have the same benefits as Nilsen who lives in Volda. That's not what this case is about. It is about if he then withdraws from Volda and takes the benefits home – for example. to Bulgaria – should we challenge the EEA and say that here we want a cost regulation, that we then regulate the benefit so that it corresponds to the cost level in his country of origin? There are no possibilities for today. I believe that it could have been a good way to start negotiating. I note that EU Ambassador János Herman says in the Class struggle on 13 December 2011 that he is notifying changes to the contested EEA agreement. The EU sees that the EEA can become a ‘ventrum’ for countries that will become members of the EU, and then it shows examples such as Belarus and Ukraine. This means that there is also a debate within the EU and a will in the EU to look at the side of EEA legislation. It should also be perfectly legitimate and possible for Norway to bring this up for debate with the EU and say that, because of our circumstances, we need other types of solutions – and then such cost regulation. Then you can say that the European Union will never join in. But I record that the government councils earlier, before Christmas, were downwards and discussed the level of pay. There, the EU basically says exactly the same – but the opposite way – that you can come from the EU to Norway and work for the salary you have in your home country. We all understand that it will be a big challenge. I am glad that the Minister of Labour took that trip downwards, but it shows that it also has to be possible to have conversations on the opposite path in terms of welfare and social security benefits, in order to find the good solutions. At the same time, it should also be considered to have a debate on whether cash support and child benefit are initially a benefit linked to being in the Norwegian labour market. Or is it a family-related welfare performance that we have designed in the Norwegian welfare system? I mean the last one, and that's also something you should debate, because today it's the link up to having come here and the job and thus have a right to performance. I hope at least that we can get a good discussion. Then it will probably be possible to come back with more rounds after today, but I hope we can have a good discussion about the challenge images that are, and that we can meet this with an open mind and have a creative debate on how to meet the ever-increasing challenge of exporting social security benefits to the EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e498	Yes, I hope we shall have a good and constructive debate. It is an important issue that has been put on the agenda, and I can assure Robert Eriksson that the government is also fundamentally concerned about safeguarding the Norwegian welfare system. That's also one of the reasons why we put down the Brochmann committee, which we're now following up on. This is one of the reasons why we already did something about this in the 2012 budget. the transitional aid. That's one thing. Then we're going to have that debate, but then we also have to make sure that we're very despicable about what's the real situation. The representative says that, but there's something about the way it's being said. So it's not like one day in Norway. One day you must have worked in Norway; you must have had an employment relationship in Norway. But before that, one must also have had a job in his own country which must be documented and which must be documented with an official stamp from that country. It's very important. Then you have to be available to the Norwegian labour market and take any job offered by the Norwegian labour market. It's important that we have it clear to ourselves. In the last few years, Norway has experienced high levels of labour migration. Labour immigration has been positive for the Norwegian labour market and for the Norwegian economy. Immigrants contribute to meeting the demand for labour, contribute to the performance of important tasks and provide useful skills. The basis for today's labour immigration policy was laid in the Labour Migration Communication presented by the government in 2008 and followed up by several concrete changes. The principles of labour immigration policy are to facilitate the recruitment of workers from abroad by enterprises and businesses in a simple and efficient way, where necessary. The relatively high percentage increase in workers from southern Europe to Norway in the last year, 14 p.m., has to be seen in the context of few immigrants from these countries in 2010. What I mean by this is that the percentage growth is great, but there aren't very, very many in the number of people -- just so we agree on it. But the great labour and service migrations we have had in recent years also bring with them some challenges that we should not be blind to, among other things. related to maintaining an orderly working life. The government is concerned about the impact of immigration and international mobility on the Norwegian welfare systems and the Norwegian welfare system. That's why, as I mentioned, we put down the Brochmann committee in 2009. They delivered their report last year, as we know. The investigation has now been at the hearing and the ministry will review the proposals in the light of that consultation round. It can also be mentioned that the action plan against social dumping contributes to the maintenance of the Norwegian work model, where full-time pay provides income that allows self-sufficiency at a reasonable level. For example, the general public service may: prevent the development of a low-wage market in the generalised areas where non-resident labour is given access to the Norwegian welfare system by accepting work under Norwegian employment contracts, i.e. the need for social security and welfare schemes in addition to wages and salaries. It is one of the most important things we have to prevent through, among other things. the generalisation system. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, Norway has undertaken to facilitate the transfer of social security rights earned in one EEA country to another EEA country. We are free to determine what social security benefits we are going to have in Norway and to determine the conditions under which we can obtain the different benefits. However, in the case of transfers or aggregation of rights earned in other EEA countries, we are obliged by the rules resulting from Council Regulation No. 1408/71, the Social Security Regulation and its implementing regulations. The Social Security Regulation also regulates the countries responsible for the payment of social security benefits. For unemployment benefits, this is usually the country in which they worked when he or she became unemployed. We cannot have more restrictive terms in the day-to-day arrangements for EEA citizens working in Norway than we have for our own citizens. In addition to meeting the previous requirement to have worked in Norway eight weeks before leaving, EEA citizens also had to have a minimum labour income of 1,5 G in the last calendar year or 3 G in the last three calendar years or have worked in another EEA country for at least 16 weeks in the last calendar year or 32 weeks in the last three calendar years. For persons who have earned their daily allowances through work in Norway, there has only been a requirement for minimum income earned at work and not a requirement for eight weeks’ work prior to unemployment. I have carefully assessed the work requirement – it is basic legal expertise that is behind this – and found that this is not in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination resulting from the social security regulation. So that's why the government lifted this work requirement. The abolition of the employment requirement means that EEA citizens – including those who have worked here less than eight weeks – will now be able to transfer their earned unemployment benefits from other EEA countries if they become unemployed from work in an establishment in Norway. These changes may increase the risk of socially motivated immigration. The Employment and Welfare Act is working in a targeted and systematic way to control day-to-day payments in general. During 2012, the ETF shall facilitate the registration of cases concerning the granting of daily allowances to EEA citizens on the basis of the Social Security Regulation. The registration will provide a basis for a general survey of these daily allowances and for monitoring with a view to identifying potential abuses. I would like to clarify – I have done so far, but I would like to do it again – that the change does not mean that an EEA citizen will now be entitled to Norwegian daily allowance after one day’s work in Norway. It is a prerequisite for this to be granted that the applicant fulfils the general conditions of daily allowances, including the minimum income requirement. Thus, jobseekers who have worked very short hours in Norway must have worked in other EEA countries prior to the period of leave that can be expected from the assessment of the right to Norwegian daily allowances. Your previous employment needs to be documented in order to receive a daily allowance. If these minimum requirements are not met by work in Norway or in another EEA country, no daily allowance will be granted. I want to end with being aware of the problem. We'll follow it. That is why I am just concerned that we are now getting a registration system in place, so that we can keep up with whether this means that there is an increase in the number of people who have been employed, for example. one day in Norway. Of course, if there's going to be a big increase in this, we have to act, because then it's going to be a regular abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e524	I thank you for your answer. Governments are in the midst of a lot of the moments and points that I myself have, and are obviously aware of some of the challenges. I would have been very surprised if the Council of State had not been aware of them, given that they have had a large public investigation of it, namely from the Brochmann Committee, which has also had a thorough debate on earlier – last year. So that's how we follow this up on. One thing is that we've got a good investigation and had some debates, but what happens next? The Council of State points out that the 2012 budget has therefore taken action in respect of the transitional aid. Then I hope that's not the only thing the government intends to do, because you can – at my discretion – do two important things. One is to sit down at the negotiating table and see if it is possible – at least examine whether it is possible – to take an initiative to renegotiate the provisions of the EEA Agreement relating to welfare and work. That's one way to do it. Or you can redefine the Norwegian welfare systems. If you choose to go for the second track, my challenges will be: Does the Council of State wish to sit down and renegotiate the EEA Agreement, take an initiative in relation to both work and well-being? If the answer is no, when can we expect a wider follow-up of the government's work to redefine the Norwegian welfare systems? When will we be presented with a big message? What does the government think about that? For example, in order to take a few examples, the government will see to it that it is possible to introduce a social security period of, for example: Five years before you are entitled to cash support, you want to enter into negotiations with the EU to see if the income you have had before coming to Norway is also included in the calculation basis for calculating, for example: Day money in Norway? It is also a challenge – as I see Knut Røed in the Newspaper on 26 May 2011, which I quoted earlier, and which I quote again, says – that the social security system can attract many people. It was also the Council of State in and of its own accord. The same thing said Ruud Koopmans, one of Europe's leading welfare researchers, when he was here for a while. He said that the Norwegian welfare systems and the system we have can quickly attract more because of the welfare systems, including the unqualified labour force. It is a challenge we are now facing, and we must have a good answer to that, otherwise I fear that we will get there that we can risk Norwegian welfare systems being so pressured that there will be a reduction in schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e539	I can assure you once again that we are committed to safeguarding the Norwegian welfare systems. But I'm very busy doing it in a proper way. It does not mean for me to do anything that means that we cancel the EEA Agreement. That's why we challenge the EEA Agreement on some things. Norway challenges the EEA Agreement, inter alia: in relation to the ILO 94, and we challenge the EEA Agreement on some aspects of child-rescue issues. But I am not prepared to challenge the EEA agreement on the free labour market, because it is a very basic part of the agreement. When it comes to believing that you can renegotiate those parts of the agreement, I think you should believe again. Overall, it is a very good tool for Norway. Our future growth and well-being will be based on the fact that we have a free labour market within the EU. We need labour in Norway in the long term, and we are therefore totally dependent on having a good and orderly relationship in this area. So it's true that we've done one thing in the 2012 budget relating to transitional aid, just in line with the recommendations of the Brochmann Committee, by saying that instead of giving passive money, we're busy giving direct activity. It's a welfare system device that just prevents us from getting a kind of abuse of welfare crowns, and I think we're very much in agreement about is the way we're going. So the representative asks, "When will there be more?" There's going to be more, we're going to have a proper review of this after the Brochmann committee. But you also have to admit that this is not a simple thing, because if you are – as I think you have to be – serious about this and do not believe that you can renegotiate the whole EEA agreement at this point, I think you also have to realize that then you have to go through the performances and look at what you can do with the performances, in order to possibly get a different device on them. Then it also means – and Robert Eriksson will be aware of it – to challenge some of the Norwegian citizens’ relationship to these welfare benefits. It's a much more difficult political and actual question that requires thorough review. So I'm concerned that we have to be quick, but we don't have to do stupid things, and we don't have to do things that have consequences for people that we're not aware of. That's why we're following this up, we're going to follow up the message. It can be expected that you will return relatively soon with individual parts from the Brochmann Committee, because that is the thinking that is leading the government's current policy. I share the concern, but I do not agree with the way you want to solve it, because I think that is short-sighted and unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e550	It's okay to deal with the facts before expressing concern in an interpellation on the Storting's pulpit. It is very good that the Council of State, and so far as the interpellant, have cleared up the misunderstandings. But it does not serve to create the impression that unemployed Spanish young people can come to Norway, work one day and then get paid. We are part of a common European labour market. With access to the internal market, the EEA Agreement for Norwegian jobs and for Norwegian business is our lifeline and therefore absolutely necessary. Through the European labour market, about half a billion people are formally entitled to come to Norway, work and live here without special restrictions. The millions of Northmen who wish to do so are free to do the same in other countries. It's a basic good freedom that we have to fence around. Just look at who's doing the honest work we ourselves don't have enough people to do here at home: workers from the EEA territory. Many sectors in this country had not gone around the last few years, it had not been for labour immigration from the new EU countries. We have to thank them, we have to appreciate them, and we have to make sure that they are properly treated. Clearly, the point of progress is on another line, for the interpellation cannot be interpreted in any other way. The Polish, for example, are going to come here, they're going to do the job, but they're going to do it with worse conditions than the rest of us. ‘Do your duty and require your right’ is an important principle. Work creates well-being. If you work in Norway and pay taxes, you are entitled to the benefits you earn by working. Those rules are the same and shall apply to all those who work in Norway. The Progress Party therefore believes that this should be different for immigrants: they should do their duty, but not have the opportunity to assert all their rights, for example. the right to a daily allowance, to which this interpellation refers. It is unsolvable, it is unsolvable, and it is contrary to the rules imposed on us by the EEA Agreement on non-discrimination. But it doesn't seem to worry about the progress party worth mentioning, and that's exactly what the interpellant has expressed today as well. He wants to renegotiate these points of the EEA Agreement. In the evening post before Christmas, when the interpellant announced the interpellant, he went further and even said that if you did not get there, you had to go out of the EEA Agreement and set up free trade agreements – in order to create an A team and a B team in the working life, where we Norwegians should still be able to benefit from our welfare arrangements related to our work, while the foreigners should only have the obligation. It's utopia. Doing so would definitely have fatal consequences for the Norwegian export industry, businesses and jobs. The consequence of this would be a poorer state of Norway to maintain the level of welfare. The wheels would simply not go around. We're not going to cancel the EEA Agreement. We're not going to make an A team and a B team in the world of work. But that does not mean that the government is blind to the sustainability of the welfare state. The Brochmann Committee is mentioned in all these debates. The Brochmann Committee presents good and important challenges in terms of the sustainability of the future for the welfare state, which we also discuss and follow up – yes, we have started in this budget. But what the interpellant is calling for today's solutions is not in the spirit of the Brochmann Committee at all. What the Brochmann Committee points to in its report is the importance of making demands related to social benefits and also of turning some benefits into activities. That's what the Brochmann committee gets the most quoted, and that's what's been discussed the most. But what the Brochmann Committee is paying so much attention to, but as the Progress Party talks very little about, is the need for labour immigration, the need to invest in integration, in language training, in liquidating cash support, the need to maintain a serious working life for all, to counter social dumping. This is the Brochmann Committee very concerned, and these are areas where the Progress Party has failed – and fails – in its policy. So, to let foreigners come here and work under conditions other than the Nordics is the Progress Party's answer, and it's obvious that the interpellant has not completely gone away from the idea of rocking the EEA Agreement. I would challenge him whether he still believes that a good alternative is to withdraw from the EEA Agreement if we do not have the renegotiation of the EEA Agreement, and whether this is within the scope of what his party stands for and believes. I believe that this interpellation once again clarifies the differences between the Progress Party and the Labour Party in labour policy. We work for a fair working life and against social dumping, but the Progress Party will systematize social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e567	Let me first say thank you to the interpellant for an interesting and timely interpellation. So I just want to make it clear that for the Right it is not relevant to enter into a total renegotiation of the EEA Agreement. It's not Right's policy. This discussion is marked by two – what to say – dilemmas. One is the intention and the problem description. I think most people in this room might agree that there is a relevant problem description here. You have an open labour market. It is of great benefit to Norway in many ways. At the same time, there is also an open labour market at the moment of recession in Europe, but still relatively good times in Norway, although the Norwegian economy is also staggering and is likely to wear more in the coming years. Then you can agree that the intention must of course be to take care of the good sides here. We're going to have a decent and real work life. We are going to bring in immigrants because it benefits Norway, but also because it is important for European solidarity and for balancing income differences in Europe. Of course, workers in Norway, who work in Norway and who live in Norway, should also have equal rights, regardless of where they come from. I don't think there's any disagreement about that either. So the question is, what kind of room of action do you actually have? That is where this discussion becomes difficult, precisely because by saying A in many ways we have also accepted B, C, D, E and F. By saying that we are a party to the EEA – we want labour immigration from the EEA area – we have also accepted some limitations in the Norwegian political space for action. There is also a broad majority in the Norwegian population who have stood behind. At times, the right has also been a little more impatient than the Council of State in a number of matters, including: in the last conversion of the right to a daily allowance, even though I fully agree with the Council of State and others who say that it is important to clarify what it really means. It is not that you can come to Norway as an unemployed Spaniard, work one day and then get paid daily. That's not the case. At the same time, all these things mean fighting with the EEA – Norwegian interests and Norwegian views need to be promoted in the EEA. The right is open for us to try it out in several different fields. Among other things, we have promoted a note in the context of the treatment of the disability pension message, where we say that we are open to a discussion about trying to index social security benefits and public benefits taken out of Norway in some way. Some benefits are currently prohibited from being included in Norway. For example – if I don't remember completely wrong – the transitional benefit. We can look at this – more than we like – but there are some limitations that we need to be aware of. That means that in this debate we should focus more on the areas we can actually do something about, and then I want to mention four things. One is, of course, the overall immigration and integration policy. It has less to say for the EEA territory but is relevant outside. It is important that we have a strict and fair immigration policy, but it is also important that we have an immigration policy that encourages good heads to choose Norway. One thing is that we accept people who need protection. We're going to keep doing that. But we're not good enough to recruit the good heads. That's a little bit of our challenge. The second discussion is about our overall performance system, our entire performance system. The Brochmann Committee has demonstrated that in many cases it pays too little to work, or that the difference between working and not working is marginal. Some people can even lose money theoretically – actually also – from social security to work, or gain money from going from work to social security. Another thing is whether the requirements are exploited. For example, there is today full opportunity to reduce benefits to, for example: social assistance recipients who do not meet the requirements or do not prepare for activity measures, but surveys show that they are used to a very small extent. It is also worth asking questions about whether the requirement to take appropriate work as an unemployed person is actually being practised. This is a very strict requirement, which also implies, for example: may require that people move and that they receive support for it. The third thing worth mentioning is, of course, the fight against social dumping. It's also part of this discussion. Because while we want to have work immigrants in Norway, we are also concerned that it should not be systematically underpinning and underpinning Norwegian wage levels and Norwegian levels of work. Now there are also differences in Norwegian salary levels, but this is when you talk about the whole thing. It's a discussion that's much bigger than what we're unfortunately getting space for in these minutes, or this one and a half hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e595	First, I want to say that the freedom to move and seek work, even in bad times, is one of the most important things we have. It's been used by the Nordics, and we're going to be happy to exist, and we have, as many have said, benefited greatly from it. Now we have an explosion in unemployment in Europe. They're young people, they're well-trained, and they're mobile. I think it's absolutely right that we need to focus a lot on how this will work in the future. I think we're going to see pretty big mobility changes in the future at good and bad, but I think we're going to be very hard on these that now have to move on, haven't created these problems sail. I think that's also important to say. These are people who need a job. They have been victims of a lack of economic governance and a policy that has sent the bill for the party to ordinary people, as usual. Now many of them have to try out in other countries, and I understand that they do. Just before Christmas I visited Robin Hood House in Bergen. It's a center for the disadvantaged. There was now a majority of Spaniards and people from Eastern Europe largely. These weren't people who had a job before they came, to say it like that. These were people who don't have a right to anything when they're here, other than being allowed to be here to apply for a job, a sentence – that's what they're entitled to – and emergency health care. It's pretty serious, because they had nowhere else to go but an action for the socially disadvantaged. I don't think I'm too strong if I say it can increase some social conflicts in Norway if we don't manage to address any of the problem that arises among disadvantaged people when they're going to do it here. So they don't have a right to a day's allowance. I can't imagine any Spaniards, Italians or people from Greece who have a regular job, today cancel it and travel to Norway to speculate in the Norwegian welfare system. So it's not like that. What we're dealing with is probably people who don't have any rights and who get into trouble when they get to Norway. Then it's like this: should we just look at the welfare benefits and see that there are some problems with that? Yes, it is. There we have the Brochmann Committee, and we're going to look at what we can do within the principle of equal treatment and justice. The most important thing we can do is about the labour market. If we become known in Europe for having a labour market that is regulated and serious, where it does not benefit to trick, we are much better off. The fight against undeclared work and social dumping is the most important thing in this case. There is a need for the Progress Party to reconsider its policy, because it is against the main measures. This, I believe, is also the litmus test of whether we as society and individuals understand that black work is the theft of the community, and that that is what is going to threaten the welfare state. For those countries that are now experiencing an economic disaster, for example: Greece: The problem there has not been that people are late and not working. The problem has been that you haven't had a system where people have paid taxes or had order on finances and employment so that they had a sustainability for the welfare community and the community. If Norway is not right now and makes sure that Norwegian employment is serious, we are at risk of ending up like Greece, because, to put it that way, someone might want to speculate on exploiting some of the people who come here for black work. I would like to call for one action: we have something called the Service Centre for Foreign Workers. It is the Labour Inspectorate, the police, the tax administration and the Foreign Affairs Directorate that have established several service centres for foreign workers in Norway. There employers and employees can receive guidance and prompt treatment of applications. Such centres exist in some places, but there are more locations missing. There's a place where people can turn and get serious guidance and not be fooled, like someone gets now, where they at the airport in Spain get a note in their hand saying, "Go to Robin Hood House in Bergen, maybe you'll get some food." I would like to encourage the Council of State to see whether this will not be one of the most important instruments we have in the future, to ensure that labour migration takes place in a proper way for the benefit of both the country and the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e614	I also want to start by thanking you for the interpellation. I experience that the interpellation deals with an important theme, but it has the wrong input. Now I also believe that Eriksson's posts were more constructive than the text of the interpellation. I will also give praise to the Council of State for a very neat and good answer. At the beginning of this week, I attended a conference in Rogaland for business and politicians. There I felt that the theme was not welfare refugees, but the business needs for more labour – labour not available in Norway. The centre party wants to solve this by increasing professional participation in the Norwegian population, but we also see the need for labour immigration to solve this. I react when it is said that 500 million au pairs, access to Norwegian welfare systems, are used as ‘new social security offices’ and ‘welfare refugees’. I think we should stay that way too good. Then it is interesting that more people in the debate have been involved in the EEA Agreement. It is such that a central part of the EEA Agreement is the free movement of labour. Then one cannot say it first and then say that one is surprised that the unemployed in Europe benefit from this opportunity. I had no idea of having to go back to the political change of words in the early 1990s, but when it is claimed that the EEA Agreement has evolved to be more extensive than one thought, it is to say that the EEA Agreement has evolved to be just as comprehensive as the anti-agreement parties warned against. It is not possible to provide guarantees in the EEA and EU systems. It's the court that rules by the general principles. Nor is it acceptable, what I get the impression that the Progress Party is, is for the EEA, but against all EEA means. I also have to pay a visit to the representative Trettebergstien. She described the consequences of cancelling the EEA Agreement, as the Centre Party wants to do. The words were perceived to me as a blueprint of the threats posed by the Workers' Party in 1994, when they wanted to force the Norwegian people into the EU. There is also no reason to believe in the threats arising from the cancellation of the EEA Agreement. In the light of the contributions of the representative, Eriksson, I also find it necessary to challenge the Progress Party on their position on the EEA. I have always felt that the Progress Party has been in charge of the EEA Agreement. It is now interesting to clarify whether there is a movement also in the Progress Party in looking at the EEA Agreement and its importance for important values in the Norwegian welfare community. The central party wants to stand together – and stand up for – to secure Norwegian welfare systems. We believe that a red-green government is the best guarantee. We've done a lot, and we're going to do more. Others have also been mentioned in the debate. This relates in particular to the fight against social dumping. It is not only an effort to ensure important qualities in Norwegian employment, it is also important to ensure important values in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e635	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. It is important to create legitimacy and sustain welfare systems, and it is important to take debates that the media often create, or what is discussed in the media, including in this room. I'm glad to have a chance to do that. It has been clear through the debate, and many have been involved, that this challenge has many factors to do with it. We have a dramatic situation in Europe. Never before in European history have so few young people been employed. In July 2011, youth unemployment was 20.7 p.m. That's approximately equal to that. 5 million young people. The EU monitors young people who are not at work, education or training, and the figures for this group are very high. In 2010 it was 12.8 pst. of all young people aged 15 to 24 who were in that group, corresponding to 7.5 million young people. Of course, the number varies from country to country, but the total is dramatic. This is a crisis, it is difficult and presents the EU with major challenges. But it also poses, as the interpellant was about, challenges for Norway. Paradoxically, it also gives us opportunities, as others have, to some extent, as well. We need more hands – it has been mentioned, for example. 200000 in the healthcare sector by 2050. We need skills. The technology companies are seeking and trying to obtain more engineers, including: In the context of the NHO Annual Conference, Rema 1000 said in the media that they would be employed between 1000 and 2 000 in 2012. The Stordalen said that only he was going to hire 500–600 in 2012. This is just some of the things that are kind of upside down. We're doing well, we need more employees, and we need more staff with a high level of competence. This is an opportunity for Norway. This means that the dramatic and difficult situation for the EU may well be that Norway can benefit from it, because – unfortunately, but fortunately for Norway in isolation, when we only think about ourselves – young people who have education, who could help their countries, in Europe, come to Norway, and then we enjoy it. These are also challenges. As the interpellant describes, you can be in Norway for a short time, go back to your home country and end up with a good payment – that is of course a problem. The EEA and the EU have a major impact on Norwegian policy. And once the debate is over, I can't touch it either. I would say to the Centre Party – and to the extent SV – about the alternative to the SV and the Centre party when they had fought against the EEA: if we had not had the EEA agreement, we would have been in the EU. That would have been the result in 1994. That would certainly have been the result afterwards as well. So we're dependent on the EEA Agreement. But the Christian People's Party also believes that we need to be concerned about using the space for action that the EEA Agreement gives us, and challenging the legislation. Therefore, I am also pleased that the Council of State is clear that if this becomes a much larger problem, it must of course be looked at. I'd like to ask the Council of State to explain the logic that if you've worked up the other rights, you can work a couple of days, or a while, in Norway and then get the right to take home the rights. It is clear that we need to discuss whether there is a possibility to adapt according to purchasing power. The second challenge that I think is important is the more happiness-seeking ones, who come to Norway as tourists, and who know that if they can get a job in Norway, they may finally have met a big dream. They come to Norway without a job, and many of those who work with drug users and people with disabilities experience that people from Europe need food, need help, because they have not been able to get a job. That is why I am very pleased with what Karin Andersen said about service centres for foreign workers, where the Labour Inspectorate, the police, taxed and, among other things. UDI works together to help these people. I believe this challenge, namely those people who come to Norway to look for happiness but who are unable to get a job – and that is not about any welfare schemes – and who stay here without a job, is probably as big as the interpellant picks up. I'm glad Karin Andersen is lifting this up. It's Oslo, Stavanger and the Churches that have these centers. There are several cities that need it to capture the people that fall outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e653	The left is a liberal party. That means that man's needs and man's freedom to move are a fundamental freedom we are willing to fight for. We also believe that human mobility actually creates well-being. That's what history has shown us. Anyone who tries to shut people down behind borders or anything else does not actually contribute to creating well-being, while mobility has always created it. Norway exported 50 pst. by its population at a time when we were among the poorest in Europe. It created well-being in Norway, it created well-being where they came. So mobile people have always created well-being. I'm too happy people. It's possible that the Christian People's Party is a bit critical of them, but as liberals I'm fundamental to happiness-seeking people. I want people to look for happiness. I want people to stretch to get better. I want people to do everything they can to make their living better. That's what I think makes better communities. That is why I am also for people who are looking for happiness. I think they're involved in making well-being for all of us. They're involved and developing society, they're the driving force behind a society. In Christmas, if I were to be a little personal, I got a meeting with the health care service – as a patient in a hospital. I have to say that it would have been a sad experience if it had not been for the immigration of labour. There had been very few nurses at work at that hospital that Christmas if it had not been for the EEA agreement. It would have been very few to take the care and care that was done. If you travel around a nursing home in Oslo and say you're against immigration, I'll almost say you're a little malicious. Being against labour immigration, which contributes to creating so many good welfare services in this city, is quite short-sighted. For me, the EEA Agreement and human mobility in Europe contribute to making Norway richer, increasing value creation in this country. It had e.g. has been very difficult to operate in this city if not for all the young Swedes who come here to gain professional experience in Norwegian food establishments. It's hard to be served by a Northman in this town. This is why, in fact, the value creation in this country is increasing due to the employment opportunities of the EEA Agreement. In fact, the welfare of this country is better because of the employment opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement. In fact, the EEA Agreement is involved in value creation, it contributes to better well-being, it contributes to providing many opportunities to young people from, for example: Sweden, where youth unemployment is now very high, gives them an opportunity while it is a good thing for us. For this reason, it is completely incomprehensible to me to formulate the sentence formulated by Robert Eriksson, that it is not possible to ‘be Europe’s new social security office’ and, at the same time, to maintain Norwegian welfare. For me, it's putting things all the way on my head. The problem is not that we are flooded by those who have so-called one-day rights. I've never met any of those guys. But what we see is that our healthcare system and Norwegian business actually depend on the rights that help make Norway an attractive place to work. Norway is actually an attractive place to work, and if we can't be attractive in that labour market, it's not like the whole world wants to live in Norway. It's not like everybody thinks they're calling the streets around us right now is the best place to spend their lives. So we have to have good welfare arrangements to be able to compete for the labour we actually want. The EEA Agreement is important for our well-being, and it is important for the freedom of European citizens. We don't want to cancel the EEA Agreement. We do not want to cancel the Schengen Agreement. We don't want to cancel the international agreements that make us safe even as Norwegian citizens when we work around in other European countries, because these are mutual agreements, and they are mutual agreements that are fundamental to our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e666	Thank you to the interpellant for taking the debate into this room instead of going outside. What I want to say is, do we have an information challenge, or do we have a communication challenge? Because it's clear that it sounds a little special when one says that one day of work in this country is going to trigger unimaginable means, at least if a cage in a country where it doesn't cost as much to live as it does in this country. In Norway, we have a low unemployment rate, which we should be very happy about. But this also makes us attractive to people in the rest of Europe, especially in southern Europe, who are now in a difficult situation. At the same time, many of these good competences that Norway needs, that's good. It should actually still be like that. On 5 January this year, we were able to read an article in the Newspaper on young unemployed people from EU countries who are coming to Norway in the hope of getting a job. Some of them had families in their home country, others were young and single, but in common for all of them, they were looking for happiness here to get work, because their own homeland is the setting of an economic crisis. The result was unemployed Europeans without housing, food or income who become dependent on voluntary organisations. We're too busy boasting that Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, but we forget that it's in the hands of those who are already established with jobs and who have income that one can manage. The rumor that Norway is a good country to come to, where it is easy to get a job, where the job is well paid, and where there is well-being from the first day on, is obviously tempting. What these rumors don't say is that there are demands on those who are going to work here, for example. that language skills are essential even if you have good education and that there are formal requirements through your own searcher processes, with job interviews and qualifications, certificates and references. In fact, not everyone is aware of this when they come here hoping to get a job. Norway is dependent on obtaining skilled labour from abroad for different sectors. We should be grateful for that. The challenge is that we are not good enough to make ourselves attractive enough to attract employees with the skills we need. Instead, we're interesting because we have well-being that's easy to process and export, which in isolation provides a better economy than many would have had with a monthly income in their own country. When we want to sell Norway as a brand abroad, we also need to show that we are a country that has made demands on our employees so that they can achieve welfare rights. At the NRK on 9 January, we heard about Gonzalo Marina, who was unemployed in Spain. He traveled to Norway to seek work happiness. Unfortunately, he was not at work when he came here, which meant that he was not entitled to anything. Have we somehow tricked Gonzalo? In that case, this one has to do something with, and it quite as soon, for many are knocking on our doors. Many of them actually don't have jobs, and maybe they don't have skills, but if they got good information in advance, we might have made good use of them in a good, appropriate and creative way. Once you have seen this entry about Gonzalo, it is in a way that one would rather have offered this man work primarily, but also thank you for a job search process – this because he seems sincerely committed and ready for a working life in Norway. He had spent all his savings and was left to himself on the street. Of course, this can create precedent, but when one knows that someone deliberately challenges the law and exploits it in part, a given man should have a job, because we need his competence and education, and in retrospect the well-being that he would have worked out, in line with all of us. The interpellant asks whether further pressure will be exerted on our various welfare arrangements, and what to do with it. First of all, we need to get an answer as to whether you want to do something, or whether you want to do it. Since we have a low unemployment rate, we need to add a lot of people in different areas over the next few years. We need to recognise that in some sectors we do not have enough workers, and we need to accept those from other countries that have the right skills. Of course, then we're going to accept these in a good way, and they're going to have the same rights in our different social security systems. But we have to market ourselves in a good way, because what does it mean to seek work in Norway? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e694	Let me first thank you for a lot of good articles and interesting input and also for interesting discussion. Let me give the representative Trettebergstien a little attention. In her statement, she introduced the old slogan to the Workers' Party, «Do your duty and demand your right». I fully agree with the representative of Trettebergstuen that this is a very good slogan, and I believe that we should continue to build society according to that attitude. But when the representative starts his post with the claim that the Progress Party wants an A team and a B team in the workplace, she introduces errors on faults in her post. She obviously cannot have heard what I have said in my main post. It reminds me a little bit of an old man – he's probably over 60 years old, so he's probably 'a little old', I guess I can't call him old, a trombone rocker who's at least been around for a long time, Terje Tysland. The posts of the representative Trettebergstien remind me a little about one of his shows, «The Same Old Leksa» – you bring out the same old posts and present them again, without even hearing what is really being said. One of the things I said in my post was: we don't want to give people who come from the EEA, day money. What I said was that if you come from Poland, or if you come from Bulgaria, Spain, Italy or where it might be, and you live in Volda and get unemployed, you should have the same benefits as Nilsen who comes from Volda. I was quite clear on that. But if you take the daily allowance out of the country, I ask the question whether it might be reasonable to have negotiations that require them to be regulated at the level of costs that you take with you, so that it is not so lucrative to take out social security benefits. It's something completely different. When the representative of the Trettebergstuen says that the Progress Party is not at all interested in doing anything with the other aspects of what the Brochmann Committee deals with, namely integration, language training and social dumping, I would say that there is no party in this Chamber that has stood more in this pulpit and talked about integration, promoted proposals for integration and was involved in language training, than the Progress Party. I record that the Workers' Party's Committee of Integration, which was chaired by Jonas Gahr Støre, is coming a long way to the Progress Party on very many of our old proposals. As far as social dumping is concerned, the Party of Progress has been concerned. We're concerned that we should limit black work, that we close the gates to it, while limiting social dumping. That is why we also have another representative who is being discussed in the Committee and to which we come back, in terms of introducing a national minimum wage, which could be an action. In conclusion, I just want to challenge the Council of State when we can expect further follow-up. The council said it's complicated, it can take time, but we have to be quick. On the people's mouth, what I call a typical politician's response, so if the council could be a little more concrete, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e707	This is a very important debate. I repeat what I said: it's complicated. We have to do things properly, but we have to get back quickly. Then you can characterize it as a politician's response. We're all in the same boat here, I think. Then I believe that this debate can be summed up to that point that there is a broad consensus – I feel – that the EEA Agreement is an important tool for securing us, Norway, the workforce we need and will need. Not least, the EEA Agreement is a very important tool for securing Norwegian jobs. It's very important. That part of it I think the Progress Party is ignoring. It doesn't help in a way that we get our welfare systems right, if we just get even more people who need them, even among Norwegian citizens. For me, it is not – and I am happy to hear that a lot of people in this room have expressed it – an alternative to go in and renegotiate the EEA Agreement on the very basic points of the EEA Agreement. Then I fully agree with those who say that we should, of course, challenge the EEA Agreement on a number of points. We do that, and we're going to keep doing that. With regard to the day-to-day arrangements, it is one of the fundamental rules governing the free flow of labour and, after a thorough assessment, the government found that there was a case of losing weight, to put it straight out, confronting the EEA. And taper stuff is just stupid to pick up, because it destroys a "stand" in relation to the other things you're going to raise. In addition, I basically believe that people who do not abuse the scheme should have the same rights as others do. But that's the abuse we're now going to follow, and I can guarantee this hall that we're going to do that. There are two major challenges to this discussion. One is the device of the Norwegian welfare systems. That's where we put the Brochman Committee. We're going to get back to it, but I don't think we're going to come back with one big package. However, this must be the basis for the whole design of our welfare policy – we need to think about how to have a sustainable welfare system. The second major challenge we have is social dumping, that labour immigration can undermine our entire welfare system. There are a lot of different ways that can happen, but there I just have to say that I miss the opposition's commitment. Everyone here is saying – and I know what you would have answered if you had had the opportunity to say something again – that they are against social dumping, but when it comes to the important things to counter social dumping, I miss that support in this room. Solidarity and publicity are what Fafo says are the important things to overcome social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e722	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e728	The size goes to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e738	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement the conciliation procedure in the same way as in the other courts.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to make the necessary legislative changes so that a choice must be made between either labour law or ordinary courts.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e1719	It is first voted on Section 20, third paragraph. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e1732	The President will remember that there is a voting obligation in this Chamber! A, the law on labour disputes, with the remaining paragraphs and paragraphs and B, the law on pay in labour disputes, with all the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e1744	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e1754	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-12.ana.ud927e1768	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
