ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e80	Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Knut Storberget from 31 May to 4 June in order to take part in a seminar chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in Tokyo from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Øyvind Waksdal from 31 May to 1 June in order to take part in meetings of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hedmark: Thor Lillehovde 31 May-4. June For Rogaland County: Terje Halleland 31 May
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e112	Thor Lillehovde and Terje Halleland are present and will take the seat. Address for former Director, Hans Brattetå
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e118	Before we move on to a representative proposal, the President will say that today we are in the situation that we have our former director, Hans Bratte, here. He has today his very last working day for Stortinget. It's the last working day after a continuous 25 years in Stortinget's service, 22 years of them as Director of the Stortinge. When someone realizes that it is hard to remember who was before Hans Bratte stood, it is because there was no one before Hans Bratte stood. He is so far the only director of the Storting, and it does of course mean that Brattestand has had to shape the position itself. There is no position to compare with. You have, Hans, done that in an excellent way. If you look at the Stortingen 25 years ago – or 22 years ago, when he became director – and the development up until today, it is an incredible development that has been. That's why we found out that it was right to publish a book on evolution in the period Hans has been here. It's not a book about Hans Bratte standing, but it's a book about the development of Stortinget and a lot that's happened in Stortinget. The book is called "In Service of the Storting", and all representatives receive a copy of it. There are some of the big changes that have been. Of some of the things that have happened in the past, it's historically that from the beginning of this great age we put down bulwarks and laying, and that the Storting is one organ. You got to be in on that, Hans. It's been a huge technological development, we can see that, for example. when someone later today is going to ask for the floor and we are going to vote – it is happening in a completely new way. There's been a lot of things happening. I would like to mention that Hans was with us when we founded parliamentaryism – in fact, it has worked since 1884, but for safety reasons, we waited until 2007 to ratify it. In this context, it is true that Johan Sverdrup has been credited with being the father of parliamentarianism, while Hans Brattestand has, to the degrees, been the defender of parliamentarianism by caring for the role of the Stortning in all possible ways, but also by caring for the constitutional role of the Storting in relation to the other powers of state in a way that has been genuine, committed, clear and clear. I'm not going to hold any long talk about the importance of the big network of contact Bratte standing has the world around, not least in the Nordic region, and other things that have happened during the period, but there's no doubt that when Hans Bratte stands out in retirement, this is now a completely different institution than the institution he started 25 years ago. I just want to say that as an institution, we are now dedicating ourselves to an institution. We admire a good, long and active retirement life, but above all, Hans, thank you very much for the great effort you have made for the people, for the Storting and for us as big-time representatives. Have a good retirement life, and thank you for your efforts! [[Standing applause in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e129	The representative of Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e132	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to limit the possibility of resuming foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e137	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16, if necessary. The President also allows himself to remember that we are all invited to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Majestys today, and it should be possible for us to reach it, but if necessary, the meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e155	We have had housing support in Norway for many years. Today, this important scheme has its own law – it is historic. A good dwelling is a necessary foundation for a good, free and secure life. While a difficult housing situation may exacerbate people’s problems, a stable and safe housing situation seems to be the opposite. Housing aid is the country’s main instrument for helping disadvantaged people in the housing market. In 2009, the scheme was greatly expanded and simplified – today we take a new, important decision: a new law on housing aid replaces provisions of the Law on the House Bank and several different regulations and guidelines. The Municipal and Administrative Committee has unanimously joined the legislative proposal, which is a follow-up to the St.prp. No 11 for 2008-2009, Ei strengthened support, where the government promised to return to Stortinget with proposals for changes to the legal basis for housing support. The main principles adopted by the Stortinget on 17 March 2009 remain unchanged. The government's legislative proposal is essentially a legalisation of the current law. A new and comprehensive law will provide more transparent and user-friendly legislation. At the same time, we're making some changes. I will mention in particular three of these: Firstly, it allows the creation of a separate complaint subject. It will strengthen the legal certainty of the beneficiaries of housing aid. Secondly, personal data management rules strengthen privacy both for those applying for housing support and for those in the household. Thirdly, systematic back-testing of income and wealth is also introduced. Those who have received benefits improperly have to pay them back. This is important. Housing aid is a targeted scheme for those with high housing costs and low income. The back-up is important to ensure that housing aid goes to persons who are entitled to it, not to others. There has been disagreement in the Committee only on one point: the question of transporting housing aid requirements. In this context, the term ‘transport’ is used to mean that the housing aid is paid to someone other than the beneficiary. In practice, the aid is paid directly to the municipality to cover rents in municipal housing etc. All batches agree that transport can be wise and should be possible through agreement. There is disagreement about so-called compulsory transport, i.e. that municipalities can secure the provision of housing support even when no agreement has been reached. It is only the Right who, in the form of a comment, advocates a system of compulsory transport. The Workers' Party believes that such a scheme contributes to the disincentive of beneficiaries of housing. It has also been essential for us that the compulsory transport system, for which it has so far been permitted, has been very little used. Last year, NOVA and Fafo evaluated the housing aid scheme. The report shows that the scheme has become simpler and easier to understand and that it is more effective. At the same time, there are some challenges. Children with parents who do not live together must be registered at one and the same address. That means that only one of the parents can get housing support. The report also concludes that it may be worth looking at the support for large families of children. This is a valuable input that we are dedicated to assessing in the announced growth report on housing policy. In a few years, the housing support system has been strongly strengthened. In 2005, the total amount of housing aid amounted to approx. 2.1 B.C.E. SEK, for 2012 approx. 3.25 B.C.E. kr. In the 2012 state budget, 128 000 households are expected to receive housing support each month. It is not an independent goal to increase housing support payments – the best thing is, of course, that people manage themselves. But it's a goal that those who need help get it. Housing is an important means of combating poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e181	The representative, Håkon Haugli, who is the spokesman for the case, has done very well for the content of the case. There's no need to say so much more about this. The main objective is to make this promise a little better for the users – for the sake of clarity and user-friendliness. We have enough of the public application forms that users have a lot of problems filling in. We can only look at the Nav reform, which shows that a lot of users simply give up because they can't fit into a code that's complicated. What's also going to happen is that the promise is going to be pretty much what she is. Changes are of a more technical nature. I would just like to say a little about the data protection and personal data, and would like to point out that the proposition states that consent is the basic principle for the provision and processing of personal data in accordance with Section 8 of the Data Protection Act. The Committee notes that privacy is strengthened both for those seeking housing support and for others in the household. I would like to point out that for us in the Progress Party, it is very important that personal data be kept and treated in a defence and good manner. Otherwise, the committee broadly agrees on what is in the law, and as the representative Håkon Haugli said, there is only one comment from the Right outside, and I assume that the Right itself is doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e192	The setting is unanimous. The Committee considers it a good idea to have a single legal base for housing support. To date, the rules have been rather scattered and fragmented — it has been very difficult for the users of the schemes to inform themselves. So far, the main home has been in the Husbanken and in the housing aid guidelines adopted by the Stortinget and a variety of regulations. On the material side, the content side, it's not very much new. There is the legalization of the current right with a few smaller, but nevertheless in principle interesting, exceptions. Otherwise, we are committed to the main principles of housing support that Stortinget adopted as late as 17 March 2009. There is agreement on the purpose, scope, housing requirements, the calculation of housing support, funding and organisation and on the more administrative aspects of how to process personal data. On one point, it is correct, as the rapporteur pointed out, that on our part we have expressed some concern that we should now rely only on the contractual transport of outsourced housing. It can put some more risk on the municipalities. We have not made any alternative proposal because we are willing to see if this will be a problem in practice. But we want to inform you that we are aware of the problem and will follow developments. There is another grip that is news, and that is that you are in favour of a complaint subject. Today, those who are refused housing support can complain to the regional housing bank office. The alternative when that appeal procedure lapses is to have it decided by the Ministry. In principle, the refusal of housing aid is an administrative decision to be dealt with under Section 28 of the Administrative Act. I think it is wise for the system proposed, namely that this is not added to the ministry, but that an independent complaint subject should be set up, which will have impact fields for the whole country. It also means ensuring a fairly uniform national practice in the cases of doubt. So also at this point, we end up at the setting. I could have let that happen, but I can't resist the temptation to refer to what the department writes, which is included on page 6, second column of the ballot, on the reason why the review body shouldn't be in the ministry. It says that you want to fine-dove the role of the departments as a political secretariat. It is actually an invitation to a much wider debate than what this case could provide a framework for. But I just want to say, on behalf of my party, that we are very skeptical about the complete fabrication of political visions and administrative tasks, that the departments should gradually develop and take away their real task, administration of the homeland, and become political secretariats with a focus on selling policies and not designing good, objective rules for good governance of society. It's a debate we're looking forward to coming back to in the other context. We must be careful that there is broad agreement on the main lines for the regulation of housing aid from our committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e205	Safe, predictable living conditions are one of the main prerequisites for living a good life. It's an important base for giving our kids good growth conditions. State housing aid is a financial support scheme aimed at ensuring that they have low incomes and high housing costs a decent dwelling. The housing aid has been significantly strengthened in recent years, and in 2012 it is assumed that on average 128 000 households will receive housing support. The aid helps disadvantaged people both to establish themselves and to maintain their housing. Housing aid was substantially extended and simplified in 2009. This work is now being followed up by proposals for changes in the legal base, while the main principles for housing support adopted by the Stortinget in 2009 are unchanged. The aim of this proposal is to provide legislation that is more transparent and user-friendly both for the public and for legal users. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the proposal to establish a separate law on housing support that brings together the parts of the House Bank Act that deal with housing support and the guidelines of the Stortinget on housing support. The hearing bodies have also stressed that this will provide more user-friendly and accessible legislation. Although the proposal is largely a confirmation of the current law, like the other parties in the committee, I would point out that the proposal also involves some material changes. Firstly, the legal certainty of those seeking housing support will be strengthened by the decision of an independent complainant. Secondly, the proposal provides for a strengthening of privacy. Thirdly, the post-control will be strengthened. The centre party believes that the proposal will make a good deal of arrangements even better. I am also pleased that an overall committee highlights housing support as an effective housing-social instrument and that there is agreement that strengthening housing support is an important tool to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e220	On 30 March of this year, on behalf of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, I submitted proposals for the law on housing aid. The proposal is based on a hearing note prepared by the Ministry and its hearingsigns. I am very pleased that the position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee has now been put forward for the management of the Stortinget, and of course I am particularly pleased that the Committee is being consulted on the proposals put forward in the proposal. The forest is the most important housing social tool we have. For almost 40 years, the boom has helped to ensure that low incomes and high construction costs are able to accommodate people. The government is now proposing to regulate the regulations on the support of a private law, a law on support. The aim of the legislative proposal is to have transparent and user-friendly legislation. It is essentially a legalization of the current right. The objective and main principle of granting and calculating aid for the construction of buildings, as adopted by the Stortinget on 17 March 2009, remain unchanged. In addition, however, material changes have been proposed in some of the administrative provisions. There are essentially changes to ensure the protection of the legal security and privacy of those seeking and receiving support. Today, the House Bank decides to file a complaint on the support by renewing the handling of the case. In order to ensure legal certainty and provide those who complain, a real review of the complaints was made with a proposal for an authorisation to add the complaints to an independent mention. As we already have a complaint subject for loans and grants from the House Bank, it would be preferable that this name could also deal with complaints about support. Under the authority of Stortinget's decision, we will facilitate such a scheme. The exclusive right of the municipalities to enter into an agreement with the beneficiary of the aid to have the aid paid directly to him is proposed. In order to improve legal certainty for applicants, it is recommended to require that consent be informed, voluntary and expressive. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the consent meeting these requirements. We propose to abolish the system of compulsory transport, i.e. the right of the municipalities to enter into claims for housing without the consent of the applicant. Taking away from anyone the right to dispose of their own economy is too much interference. I have noticed that the members of the Right prefer the law to have a permit for forced transport, which can be used if the barriers to the voluntary transport system show that a compulsory transport system is also necessary. Now, for many years, municipalities have had access to both voluntary and forced transport. Voluntary transport is useful on a monthly basis – about 10 000 people benefit from this scheme or such agreements in 2011. As stated in the proposal, the compulsory transport system is very rarely used – in 2011 there were no such cases. It is also one of the reasons why the scheme is now proposed to be discontinued. The other reason is that forced transport interferes with human life. It tastes like top imagery, and it doesn't want either the Center Party, SV or the Workers' Party to stand for. We also suggest strengthening the privacy of the seeker and the rest of the household. Without their consent, the municipality and the Husbank should not be able to handle personal information about the seeker and the rest of the household. Exceptions can be made where consent is difficult to obtain, and it is clear that it would be desirable to do so. We also introduce a systematic back-testing of income and wealth for those who are supported. Irregularly received benefits will be recovered without regard to debt. In addition, we will continue to work to strengthen the prevention work, so that one can prevent applicants from being paid too much in the first place. A provision is made for the central government collection centre to be able to collect the claims for the repayment of overpayment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e243	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e257	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that members of the Government should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and four lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e270	Report. St. 12 about the relationship between the state and the municipality was not exactly as expected. For a year and a half we waited in Stortinget anxiously for the message to come, Kommune-Norge was also expecting. But after one postponement replaced the other, the expectations dropped, there was too much internal contradiction in the government to expect concrete proposals. And quite correctly, when the announcement was finally made, the Council of State called it Navarsete a message of principle, and as a message of principle, it is a good starting point for an academic debate on how the relationship between state and municipality should be in the coming years. A Joint Committee points out that the local government sector has a separate responsibility towards its citizens to perform basic tasks, provide services, drive social development, exercise powers and be a local political institution. At the same time, the State has a responsibility to provide the municipal sector with the opportunity to perform the tasks of the best for its citizens. The state has a wide range of instruments in the management of municipalities. They can be grouped into three main types: legislative instruments, economic instruments and other instruments. The Committee notes that the Communication points to the fact that the starting point for the relationship between the State and the municipality is that Norway is a single country and that the local self-government must therefore operate within the framework of national objectives. The government believes that there must be consistency over time between the principles and practices of the state governance of the municipalities. This, of course, is in agreement with the Committee. The number of directorates and what can be called the external state have had a strong growth. The Committee supports a critical review of the scope, mandate and practice of the State Directorates. The aim of such a review must be to strengthen municipal freedom of action and the ability of the municipal sector to meet their tasks. The Committee asks for KS to participate in the notified review of the Directorates. In the big message, we get a talkative proof that such a directorate review is necessary: ‘Of the more than 150 central administrative bodies in Norway, it is common to count around 60 directorates.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is difficult to draw a clear picture of the role of the directorates in the government governance of the local government sector. This is due, inter alia, to the absence of a comprehensive, systematised overview of the relationship between the directorates and the municipalities, or to the communicative tasks and powers of the various directorates.’ Therefore, there is every reason to have an assessment of the role and impact of the directorates on municipalities. Perhaps the review will also help us to get an accurate overview of how many directorates there are — it could be fun to have. The system of statutory rights has increased in scope. The Committee agrees that the law-making of rights that are not enforced in practice weakens the confidence of public authorities and politicians. It is a crossroads that public budgets are subject to tight and careful governance, while ensuring that crime does not occur does not receive the same attention as regards follow-up and governance. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, points out that municipal self-government involves closeness between citizens and elected members of the public and emphasises the fundamental value of the ability of citizens to influence and participate in the solution of common tasks in the community. The majority point to the fact that government-making of important welfare tasks could delineate the local government, lead to increased bureaucracy, lead to a centralisation of decision-making power, provide people with fewer opportunities to influence their everyday lives and the community, and probably also weaken the motivation to engage in local policy. Statutory individual rights undermine municipal freedom of action and help to influence priorities within municipalities. The majority indicates that the government underlines in the notification that the Generalist Municipality should be continued. This supports the majority, and believes that municipalities should have the same responsibility, regardless of their size. This does not necessarily mean that all municipalities have the same service output. Some tasks become too large for many of today’s municipalities — in which case they should be able to purchase services in other municipalities, or cooperate in an intermunicipal way. The government assumes that the regulatory management of municipalities and county councils should be a framework for real freedom of action in the performance of statutory tasks. Furthermore, the government assumes that framework financing remains the main model for financing the local government sector. That's what the majority joins in. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, indicates that the Ministry will initiate work to examine the design of different earmarked schemes. The government believes that there is a need for more knowledge of how changes in the responsibilities and tasks of the Directorates affect municipal freedom of action and the achievement of the objectives of government governance. The majority will support the government's emphasis on the need for less detailed management, but also emphasises that increased municipal autonomy can give rise to disparities between municipalities. However, it is considered that the majority is positive if such differences reflect different policy priorities and different local circumstances. Target and performance management has established itself as a dominant governance principle in the country. The State shall specify national targets and expected results, while local authorities shall identify the means that will lead to the best possible achievement of the country’s objectives. The framework management of the municipalities is an explicit goal for all the major disciplines in the municipalities. However, in order for such a method of governance to succeed, there are two prerequisites that must be in place. Firstly, municipalities must have the necessary room for action to make real priorities and, secondly, they must have sufficient competence and capacity. The majority indicate that both government and KS believe that framework funding is preferable to widespread use of earmarked grants. This is a view that the population share. The majority note that framework funding allows municipalities to allocate available resources where they are most useful, as well as building up under local self-government and providing incentives to keep costs down. Furthermore, it provides the municipalities with a predictable financial framework, it is less administratively demanding for both the State and the municipality, and it provides municipalities with better macroeconomic governance of the expenditure than earmarked grants. This supports the majority – that the principle should be the framework management of municipalities. We are also in favour of the Ministry's informed review of the design of different designation schemes, in order to simplify and streamline the use of administrative resources in both the municipality and the state as a minimum. Since 2001, the government and KS have had a formal consultation system. KS has called for the government to notify new laws aimed at the municipal sector in the municipal proposition and to use the consultation mechanism to discuss how best to involve the municipal sector in the legislative process. An overall committee asks the government to assess this in the follow-up to this notification. The opposition, i.e. the non-socialist, or bourgeois, parties support the demand of the KS for a more binding regulatory framework that provides for the governance of the local government sector and for the regulation to be designed to contribute to a better balance between the municipalities and the central government. Municipal tasks shall, as a principle, be assigned by the Stortinget by legislative decisions rather than by the Government by means of regulations. The Committee notes that the consultation mechanism has better agreed on the factual basis for the disclosure of the reality of the local government sector. We record that the scheme may have contributed to a greater awareness of the economic and administrative implications for the local government as a result of state measures and reforms. The Committee would point out that one in all parts of the country is being met with dissatisfaction at what the municipality sees as an extensive right of objection by state bodies to municipal plans. Around half of the municipal plans drawn up in the last five years have been met with objections from state and regional authorities. In view of this, a Joint Committee calls for better coordination of state objections, so that municipalities receive objections from a better coordinated state. The Committee welcomes the assumption by the Ministry that the State will not control the municipalities to a greater extent than is necessary. We further support the fact that active use of administrative audit and internal administrative control in municipalities should in the long term reduce the need for state supervision and control. Supervisory bodies should focus on organising activities in a way that facilitates learning in municipalities. Norwegian municipalities want more freedom, and we in the Right will give them more freedom. Municipal self-government must become more than an empty floss. It is therefore gratifying that an overall increase is now asking for a review of the role of the Directorates and the regional government towards the municipalities. It is equally gratifying that an overall committee is now asking for better coordination of its objections, so that the municipalities know what they have to deal with. Report. Article 12 has become a principle message and must be followed up by action. Given how long it took to get this message in place, I am conditionally optimistic in this way. The municipalities must be taken seriously, an independent dispute resolution body in conflicts between the State and the municipality must be established, and the state's demands and expectations for the municipalities must not restrict their freedom of action as they do today. We need living communities, communities that make everyday life easier for the inhabitants, communities governed by local populace – not by directorates and state institutions with tunnel vision. Norwegian municipalities need a reform of freedom!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e330	The right has ambitions to bring the parties together on the civil side as a government alternative to the next major elections. As polls now appear, the most realistic government option for continued red-green government is a government consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party. The voters deserve important policy areas to be clarified by the Right and the Advance Party before the elections, so that you know what you get with any Right-Fremskrit party government. Such an important area is the welfare services of municipalities. Kindergarten, school and old age care mean a lot to most of us. Can the Right guarantee that the Progress Party’s position on the price financing of these key welfare services will not be implemented? Or can we risk price financing for school and care for the elderly with a Right Party government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e335	It is clear that the Workers' Party is preparing for a government change, because they are most concerned about what the Right should do in relation to the Advance Party. That's interesting. Of this big message, one sees that there is a certain gap in the government coalition sitting there, as there was a big deal without content at all when it came to concrete proposals. What happens in the negotiations after the election, or before the elections, between the Right and the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left, will be a well-kept secret until the result is clear. But I am absolutely convinced that the Progress Party and the Right can come together in very many areas. In the area of municipal policy, too, we have many points that relate to each other. The Progress Party has a slightly different model for financing municipal services, as they have also stated in the vote. But we'll see. I have great faith that in 2013 it will be a change, and then we will get a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e342	I record that the Right cannot give any guarantee against the Advance Party’s price financing – and it is actually a violent attack on local democracy. I thought local democracy meant so much to the Right that they could already solve such a question. Since the Right does not want to clarify it now – can Greece guarantee that these are questions that will be resolved before the elections, or do the voters have to live in uncertainty about how health care facilities, school places or other municipal services are funded by any new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e347	I think it is a bit funny when the representative, Mr Olsen, expects me, who is a simple representative from Buskerud, to stand here and clarify what is happening in the negotiations before the elections. What I can promise is that the Right will take its commitment to municipal autonomy in the greatest seriousness. I have noticed that the Progress Party agrees with the Right when it comes to creating a dispute resolution system between the State and the municipality, which the Labour Party strongly opposes, because they believe it will lead to increased bureaucracy instead of giving the municipalities a real freedom of action. It is also interesting that the Workers' Party has now torpedoed the foundation of municipal autonomy, so I do not know who will speak the loudest about taking municipal autonomy seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e354	The President must only draw the attention of the representative to the fact that he is not simple; there is no representative of big business that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e357	That's good to hear, President! Right is, like the rest of us, concerned with the county role, and I notice in particular one statement, which I want the representative Trond Helleland to elaborate a little. Right writes that the County should act as a mediator in conflicts between state and municipal interests. At the same time, we want the same county to move early into planning processes and promote the interests of the state – different types of interests, in fact. We know, of course, that the same county has the opportunity to use the opposition institute, which has been duly problematized both in the message and in the settings of us in the committee. How can a countyman play the role of broker and so-called positive bridge builder and at the same time play the other roles that I presented here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e366	This is a very good question. We have the answer in the right. That's what SV has voted against. Today, the County Council is both an organiser of good processes against the municipalities and a mediator in terms of objections, for example. The County Agriculture Department on the one hand and the Municipality of Drammen on the other; then the County Mediator. But if one does not agree, this goes to the Ministry of the Environment. What we have said is that in questions of principle, which are difficult, the State should be deprived of this role. In that case, an independent judicial body should have jurisdiction in disputes. Then you get a safety valve. Today, the state has all the means. The County Environmental Protection and Agricultural Department sits and is mediated with the County as a broker. This is in many ways a principle that deprives municipalities of any possibility of deciding their own destiny. This should be decided by independent courts, not by State and State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e374	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e377	The State/municipal impact report is important for the whole municipality of Norway. In the municipalities, policies adopted at large and in government are implemented. For the Workers' Party, the aim is to solve the major tasks by investing in Community solutions, and driving Municipality-Norway is a major political task. Why are community and community solutions so important to us in the Workers' Party? Well, because we believe that ensuring individual security and greater personal freedom is achieved more easily through community than what we can do. We believe in the strength of improving offers for everyone, not just for a few. The Workers' Party does not want basic welfare services to be privatised or commercialised. This does not mean that private operators do not have a place in Kommune-Norway. We have a large number of private kindergartens, we have privately run hospitals and private renovation companies, to mention something. We want the public to have control of its own business and that it is the responsibility of municipalities to ensure that services aimed at its citizens are of the highest quality possible. We have the same similarity to the law in Norway. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we get almost equivalent services across the country – almost, because this country is long and has wide inequalities in many areas. The Workers' Party will be a driver to renew, strengthen and improve the service provision in Norwegian municipalities. Our goal is for all municipalities and urban areas to provide good quality services to their inhabitants. The public sector must be equipped to meet new times and needs. Public sector renewal is necessary in order to achieve more well-being and less administration, more local freedom and less detailed management. Municipalities are for the inhabitants and shall be characterised by accessibility and flexibility, adapted to the needs of the inhabitants. At the same time, Norwegian municipalities and county councils should be a good job for employees. As part of this renewal work, Councillor Rigmor Aasrud has launched a major digitisation project to obtain applications and services online. The objectives of the ‘Net with the inhabitants’ project are ambitious but important to follow-up. The municipal sector is also a large employer with a significant employer responsibility. Together with employees, citizens and politicians, Kommune-Norway can develop quality and content of services and thus strengthen tripartite cooperation and employers' policies. The government's position is that the municipal merger should be voluntary, and one has in the current period strengthened the incentives for less unprofitable economic integration. The background for this is, among other things, that the Labour Party sees the need for change in the municipal structure — sometimes because of changes in communications, elsewhere because of changes in housing patterns. Some municipalities have a lack of land for industrial development or housing, and some municipalities have few inhabitants and problems recruiting professionals so that they can carry out all their tasks as their own municipality. This diversity is well illustrated by the following two sentences: ‘The half of the municipalities have less than 5000 inhabitants and the smallest has a population of 200. In the area the largest municipality has more than 9000 square kilometres at its disposal, while the smallest has six.» We have the generalist municipality principle in Norway, where all municipalities have the same responsibility regardless of size. The notification states that this principle should be continued, and of course the Workers' Party agrees. The term ‘state control’ is sometimes used almost as a shell word. We believe that we should have a critical look at whether the state controls too much in some areas, or too little in areas where it is required. Most municipalities want more local freedom, and there may be good reasons for it. At the same time, in a government governance assessment, one must maintain that all residents of Norway have equal rights, so that there are limits to local freedom of action that cannot be exceeded. The state has many roles, and the municipalities can perceive the state as uncoordinated on, for example, land issues, objections such as cracks, depending on the state body that speaks out. The state’s control role must also be looked at with a critical eye, not in order to avoid control and supervision, but because the use of resources is often out of proportion to the value added. There is an important and often difficult balance between local freedom on the one hand and values such as legal certainty and equivalent services on the other. Municipal economy is important for the realisation of good municipal well-being. The State shall ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to the municipalities and counties in order to enable them to carry out the tasks assigned to them. Nevertheless, the municipality itself has the money and has the ultimate responsibility for managing its own budget and borrowings. Tasks and associated resources must be followed up if municipalities are to be able to carry out and operate new tasks. In fact, the municipal economy is 18 pst. of mainland GDP, gross domestic product, in Norway in 2010, and 20 pst. of the employed persons in the country were employed in the municipal sector. These figures show the proportion of the Norwegian economy in the municipal sector. From 2005 to 2010, employment has increased by barely 72 000 persons, corresponding to 16 pst. Investments in the municipal sector actually rose by 40 pst. from 2005 to 2009. These figures make visible the expansive development of the municipality of Norway from 2005 to the present. The municipal sector has had many and major reforms over time. During the red-green period of government, from 2005 to today, a large and comprehensive child-care reform has been carried out, with a large-scale expansion of kindergartens. It is an important reform for kindergartens, but also for parents and Norwegian working life. Norway has one of the highest professional participation rates for women in Europe. This had actually not been possible without the government's investment in kindergarten development. Our next major target is 12,000 nursing homes/housings by 2015. In this area, too, the efforts of municipalities are crucial. The relationship between the State and the municipality can be characterised as a symbiosis – they are interdependent in order for Norwegian policies to be implemented for the benefit of the population. I allow myself to describe this symbiosis with the following words from Church Father Augustin, from the '300s: ‘Solidness of the central freedom of the periphery, total love.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e426	Ingelill Olsen has previously expressed concern about the position of the Progress Party on the need-driven state funding of basic welfare services in the municipalities, or the price, as she calls it. She says this would be an attack on local self-government. But now it's not that long ago that kindergartens were cost-funded. So the kindergartens were funded by the state on the basis of the number of children who went to the nursery. So this was changed so that this funding of kindergartens would be included in the framework funding, even though the municipalities have exactly the same expenditure on kindergartens and the exact same tasks there. My question is: does the representative, Ingeniill Olsen, feel that this conversion when it comes to child care funding has been an issue for local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e435	In the case of unit-price financing and related concerns, it is important that if each citizen in Norway is to receive x the number of kroner paid to a service, there will be considerable differences in Norway. As far as kindergarten is concerned, it is true that we had an earmarked grant during the implementation of the reform. It is a good way to introduce a reform. However, our objective is that the local authority sector should be financed as much as possible and that the municipality should dispose of its own funds. It's about local freedom, it's about democracy. We record that the municipalities are doing this very well. So you can discuss: would you have a kind of managed financing like one had, longer? We had a historically low earring, and we consider that to be very good and positive for local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e444	The representative of Ingarill Olsen finished his post with an Augustin quotation. I think it's more authoritative to quote Stalin, who is closer to the movement of workers. He said: Trust is good and good, but control is better. I have a question for the representative. Since the notification does not contain any indication of direction, it only contains a reference to many good principles, but it does not follow with any instructions on how to weigh these principles in concrete terms – in particular the relationship between state governance, the consideration of national, central governance and local self-government – is my question to the representative Olsen simply: does the Workers' Party wish to look into all the control bodies and opposition bodies that are currently effectively restricting the municipal autonomy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e451	I don't feel very comfortable with the introduction to Stalin, it'll stand for the replicator! In terms of trust and control: In order for this to work and for us to have similar services, it is important that we have legal certainty, but it is also important to check it. The Labour Party wants it to be controlled, but we also want the municipalities to do this for themselves. I think we're wise to have a review, see if there's supervision too much, whether they're targeted enough, whether they hit well enough, and whether they're improving services, because that's what's meant. From the Labour Party we are involved in this because we want better services for the inhabitants of the municipalities. That's where I think we actually have a common point of view across the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e460	In the last period, a constitutional proposal was put forward to legislate local democracy. There was a compromise that had been reached, and all the parties stood behind this constitution. On Monday we are invited to discuss this. I had hoped that the parties that signed in the previous period would also stand for it in this period. But then we see that the Workers' Party turns to great disappointment for many, for example. KS’ Vice President Mette Gundersen, who says the following in an interview in Kommunal Report: ‘The discussion in the Labour Party is about the balance of power between the State and the municipality. I had hoped that the big group would show greater confidence in local democracy." My question is, what about local democracy, local self-government, which is so frightening to the Workers' Party, since they are now turning around?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e472	Now we're not going to pre-shoot the Constitutional Court. But in the case of local democracy, it is well established in the Norwegian political sphere. At the same time, changing the Constitution takes time, and changing the Constitution should also take time. We have to be sure that when we change our Constitution, it has to be the highest possible majority, it has to be well anchored, and we have to do it properly. In his speech today, the President showed how long it took for parliamentarianism to enter the Constitution. It's probably not as long as local democracy takes, but it might be an example of the things that are established. It takes time to change the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e477	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e480	So what we're dealing with here today is Report. St. 12, and the title is: State and Municipality – governance and interaction. It is a great title in many ways, and therefore many had expectations of this message before it was made, and when it was presented. When you go into it, it's not that much concrete at all – it's almost nothing concrete. There is a good and good analysis in many areas, but there are no concrete solutions, nor are there any concrete, overarching visions about what is going on with the municipal sector, and what is going on with the interaction between the state and the municipality. What is in any case correct and indisputable is that the power relationship between the state and the municipality is very different. In many ways, we can compare the strength relationship between the country and the municipality with the strength relationship between predators and domestic animals. If the predators do not keep separate in their own areas, they will continue to feed into their area, and there will be fewer game rooms for the livestock. I also believe that there are many local politicians who feel it, that the state is taking over more and more of the local freedom of action. It is also true that even though the municipality has made a decision that one think is in line with Stortinget's will, in line with Norwegian law, there is no neutral body, neither administrative court, special court or ordinary court, that can decide such a dispute. If the Municipal Council or the City Council disagrees with a State body, then the only thing they can do is to appeal to another State body. The result is usually given. There are very few examples of a winning in extensive areas, one being praised how the state interprets this, and the state itself also with all the means of power, he sits with the legislative authority, and he sits with the money, the Storting is the legislative and the running power, the government is the perpetrator, and the government also issues regulations and sends circulars that in many ways are difficult for the municipalities to enforce and follow up. Municipal service production has evolved very much in the last decades. Today, an advanced service production and a completely different and more complicated code than one had before. It is likely that many people today are far more demanding and have more expectations than one had, for example. Shortly after the war – in the postwar period – and that the inhabitants of a few decades ago accepted it more often if they were denied a building application than many might do today. Today, one risk is that if the residents do not get the services and the permissions they have applied for, they will come back with a lawyer and turn around and return to the municipal proceedings, and if errors have been made by the municipality, this will be passed on. Therefore, it is more important than anything else to have a high level of competence and a good professional environment in municipalities. Of course, it is demanding, both because of the increase in detail over the last few years, and that very many municipalities are small, so that one has problems building up a good competence in all areas and also building a good professional environment. There is no doubt that much has happened since the Presidency Act was signed in 1837 – 175 years ago – but not so much has happened in relation to the number of municipalities. In 1837 there were 392 municipalities in Norway. Today there are 429 municipalities. So there are 37 more municipalities than we had 175 years ago. If one also takes into account that the infrastructure and the means of communication today cannot be compared at all with what was then, it is clear that it is a little strange that we have more municipalities today. We were right enough up in 747 municipalities at the highest in 1930, and then we got a reduction from 1958 to 1967, when the Schei Commission reduced the number of municipalities from 744 to 454. Since 1967 there has been no significant, few reductions, but no major changes in the municipal structure. The problem is, of course, not only that we have 429 municipalities – that is, we have a lot of municipalities – but also that there are different sizes of municipalities. The largest municipality is Oslo, which we all know, with more than 600,000 inhabitants, and the smallest is Utsira Municipality – 215 inhabitants are the last number I have there. That makes it demanding, especially on the basis of the generalist community principle and the principle that everyone should do exactly the same tasks. Our neighbouring countries Denmark, Sweden and Finland are now undergoing extensive changes in the municipal structure, with the aim of significantly reducing the number of municipalities. Denmark has come a long way, Finland has also come a long way, and Sweden is coming a good way. It may well be that the Ministry of Local Affairs has plans, because when we look at this message, which I actually think has a thin content, the front page is quite positive: Here is Norway, the national lion stands up here, and then there is a lot of municipal weapons. If we count how many municipal weapons there are, we get to 46. It is a lot longer than the Progress Party intends to go when it concerns the number of municipalities in Norway, but I hope that this is at least a signal that a person wants to walk that road and get fewer and more robust municipalities than one has today. The red-green parties often talk about the ‘welfare state’, but it is very rare that I hear the ‘welfare municipality’. The party of progress prefers the "welfare society", because we think it covers both the well-being that each individual carries out for himself and his family, it covers the well-being that is carried out in the municipalities, and it also covers the well-being that the state is responsible for. So the ‘welfare society’ is preferable to the ‘welfare state’, which can create the impression that it is not going to be properly well-being before the state takes care of it — that is, that a person collects taxes and taxes and reissues them in different forms of action and provision. We mean that it's the total well-being of a country that's decisive, and not who's doing it. Many municipalities feel, as many people have said, that they are controlled in detail by the state, and that is essentially regulation management. The government, the red-green parties, often try to make it so that only the municipalities get more free money, they get more freedom. We think that's wrong. The conversion of nursery funding from one price to another provided more free funding for municipalities, but kindergartens cost at least as much for municipalities today. Kindergarten requirements are at least as high today. So there's no difference. There's no way for local democracy to change funding when local authorities have to have exactly the same tasks and babysitting costs exactly the same. Therefore, it would be wrong to say that this with free means has a significant effect on local self-determination. It is also the case that regulation management is more demanding than if one has ear-marked means, because regulation can often be complicated to enforce, and it may also be complicated for government agencies, such as the State, to follow up and control them. If one had noticed that so and so much should go to the sector or the sector, or even better, did it like a funded kindergarten before, by paying the kindergartens out of the number of children in the nursery, then of course, depending on where one was in the country, etc., it would be much easier to control. There is also such a funding system that the Progress Party wants. We want basic welfare services in the municipalities to be funded by government funds, government-funded resources, so that the number of children you have in the nursery determines how much you receive, how many children you have in the school, how much you receive from the state, and how much you receive in the care of the elderly. It will be simple and transparent, and it will also provide local authorities with care when it comes to finance the basic welfare services of municipalities. Of course, this will not relieve the municipalities of responsibility, of course they still have responsibility, and they can, as they do today, either perform these services themselves or launch competitions for those where the local government considers it appropriate. In any case, this will ensure that municipalities receive funding for the basic welfare services in the municipalities, and it will also ensure that the citizens are provided with the services they require, regardless of whether they live in a rich or poor municipality. I note that the government party is very concerned about the negotiations between the Progress Party and the Right after the election. Then one of course assumes that there is a civil plurality. I totally agree with the red-green politicians who think it's probable. But first of all, we have to have that choice. At least I'm completely overconfident that we can solve this when we sit down, that we can figure out a way to figure out how to solve this. We in the Progress Party are clear that it is the inhabitants of the municipalities, the inhabitants of the country, who are to sit in the center. We mean that the municipalities are for the inhabitants, that the state exists for the inhabitants, and not the other way around. State and local authorities shall ensure security and freedom and shall facilitate the development and happiness of residents living in municipalities. That's our goal, and that's our starting point: what can we do to make sure that the inhabitants who live in this country, who are good at the beginning, still feel good? How can we ensure that they get better, and how can we ensure and facilitate that those who today do not get the help they need – the services they need – around the municipality of Norway, get the services they need for the future? That's the most important thing for us. The residents in the center and not the municipality and state in the center – what we mean is the starting point, and that's what our tenant and board is about what we're going to do in the future to ensure good services in the municipalities. Then I just want to finish by saying that in many ways I found it positive that this is being looked at on the agenda and debated, and that one is presenting a message like this. I had hoped and wished – and I think it would have been preferable – that one had gone a little further than analysing the situation, that one had come with the means to correct the weaknesses, signaled what to do in the future, and also what traditions we should have for the future when it comes to municipal services, when it comes to the state and the municipality, governance and interaction. I record that there is little of it, and it is possible that we have to wait until after the 2013 elections before we get any change on it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e514	We – all in this room – clearly share the perception of the importance of municipalities for welfare production in this country. But I think the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, is a bit very positive about the election result. It is not that we intend to lay down on our backs and allow the citizens to take over the management of this country. We intend to continue to rule for at least four more years. A prerequisite for winning a choice is that the voters know what they're up to. Now we have heard the Right Party and the Advance Party explain two very different systems of financing the important welfare production that is taking place in the municipalities. The right has given its support to framework funding, which has been a unified principle here for the past 25 years, while the Progress Party stands for a completely different policy. I believe that the voters are entitled to know what policy the Progress Party and the Right will pursue towards the municipalities when they come into government, so that we can continue to ensure the well-being of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e523	I understand that it is this government party that is busy, and I think it is good that they focus on what happens after 2013. I said in my post that I'm overestimated that a civil plurality could come to an agreement on this, and then one has to give and take. I don't want to push what this is all about, but I'd rather ask the red-green parts to focus on what the red-green parts represent. There have also been differences between them. Before 2005, a three independent party had different opinions, but they managed to arrive at a government platform. But there has also been a disagreement after a government cooperation, I see. I'm overconfident that a civil government should do better than the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e530	Interestingly, the Gjermund Hageset of the Progress Party from this pulpit states that there has been great progress in the field of transport in Norway. That's interesting, but that's not why I asked for a line. It is linked to the fact that the Progress Party is in the setting on a note where the party expresses scepticism against rights law. Yes, I fully agree that this is an important and difficult debate, but at the same time it surprises me that the Progress Party expresses such scepticism – a party that otherwise prescribes a piece price and what is described on page 44 as ‘need-driven government financing’. If this isn't some kind of right approximation, I don't know. No matter what I know or don't know: Can the Progress Party at Gjermund Hagesetter point to specific areas where today's rights legislation goes too far?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e539	When I mentioned that we had better transportation, better roads in the last 175 years, it wasn't necessarily the last seven years I thought of, but it took more time for the red-green government to take over. Where this is the case with need-driven state funding of basic welfare services in municipalities, it is only about securing funding for what is already widely required by citizens. One has said that one has a requirement for a school place, one has a claim for a sick home place when one needs it, and necessary health services. But if you live in a poor municipality, you won't necessarily get all of these services done. We have a rich state that will then ensure the state funding of these services, so that one gets these services, regardless of whether a cage in a rich or poor municipality, we think.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e546	In contrast to the rest of the Committee, the Progress Party does not wish to pursue the generalist principle. How does the Progress Party think that the tasks should be shared between the municipalities, when we are going to get A and B municipalities? What are the principles underpinning the division of tasks between municipalities? Is the Storting supposed to be in charge of the task portfolio? Should we allocate to the 429 municipalities, or maybe a lower number, if the Progress Party gets what they want in terms of the municipal structure? Can the representative Hagesetter give me examples of some municipalities in Norway that do not deserve to remain a generalist municipality? Which municipalities no longer deserve to be an A-municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e551	There are some comments we haven't gone into, and there may be several things that are in the comments that make us choose to stand outside of them. When it applies to generalist municipalities, we do not propose to wind up the generalist municipality principle, but we keep up what is going to happen. The Progress Party wants to wind up the county council, and then it is natural that further training is transferred to the municipalities, with a state-run price finance – need-driven state funding. Then it is natural that the municipalities with further education may be given the responsibility for the further education. So it might be wrong that, for example, The outsira must also have further education. If we don't want to go into the generalist community note, it's because we're looking forward to it. that we may terminate the county, and what shall happen then.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e565	I'm switching between howling and criticizing public Norway. My starting point is that we probably have one of the world's most efficient, competent, harmonious and democratic public sectors. At the same time, I sometimes criticise the same sector for being overly sectoral, for New Public Management infected, for chaotically organized, etc. As you can see, this message is an interesting reading for me. It presents this complex theme, including various types of dilemmas, in a very wise way. As you can see, the message is a good starting point for debate and further change. I agree that it is weaker or less exciting in terms of bold measures. This can be presented as a weakness of the staging message. Storing messages should by definition show change ambitions and change power, but to me this is more an expression of the fact that the vast majority are all quite satisfied with the state of things. The status quo is in many ways absolute to live with. This impression will be enhanced if we look at the committee setting. For the disagreement between positions and opposition parties, there is as much expression of a more traditional position/oppositional game as a genuine, large, dramatic disagreement between the parties on how to organise this interaction between the state and the municipality. The exception is probably to some extent the Progress Party; we have already been made clear in this debate. In the case of this exception that confirms the rule of large consensus and the break-up of the main features, let me stay a little bit more focused on what it really is about. It is linked to these key points raised in the setting, on municipal economy, state governance, municipal structure, framework management, consultation arrangements, objections, etc. But – as I said – notice that in many ways these are eternal questions, there are dynamic issues, and it is completely wrong to expect that a big message will almost give eternal, blatant answers to such questions. As I said, I think the big message presents them in a good way and also shows interesting change ambitions at all of these points. It's the last exciting topic I want to stay a little bit on, and that is in many ways new in this discussion, and that's the topic of municipal maritime administration and dispute resolution. Here you can see the split layer position and the opposite position. But here too, I believe that we have not separated layers in any dramatic way. I also agree that it is important to move away from this pyramid figure, where we kind of have a state on top, then county and municipality and over in a figure that is more horizontal, horizontal, where we place municipalities, county municipalities and state next to each other. If we take a little bit more of that approach, it's clear that there's a weakness in today's system that when there's a conflict, we have a system of power/state, and that's a problematic reality. At the same time, the politician in me, the democrat in me, refuses to say that the answer to that dilemma is that we should introduce courts, lawyers and officials as a mediation body. But we're going to get back to that debate, because we have limited testing mechanisms on the move. Then there are a few important issues, and I shouldn't say that the message doesn't get into it, but it should have done it even more, and we should at least work with them further in the future. One is pointed out by Harald Baldersheim, professor at the University of Oslo, in the last journal of the PLAN, where one introduces the term ‘state-bearing municipalities’. He has an article in this debate, in which I think we are all engaged, and sees that there is a destiny between municipalities and county municipalities. We are very concerned that there are municipalities that find themselves locked and bound in relation to the state, but what Baldersheim emphasizes in a very good way is also the opposite, which is that the state is increasingly dependent on the local government to do its job, to say it that way, in order for one to succeed in national policy. So this is really a community of fate, where you can discuss who has power, and who is powerless; it's really a mutual addiction here. Then we're very concerned with municipal structure, and it's an important debate. But for me, it's a little typical example that we're more concerned with the other levels of government than our own. I've said before, and still think, that I think it's especially the different variants of the state, the state's way of organizing, which is the weakest point of government today, and not the municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e587	Norwegian municipalities have more than 7 000 laws and regulations to deal with, and municipalities are concerned with local self-government: being able to control their own lives more. At the same time, the municipalities today complain that they are being overruled by the state, and that this has by no means improved during this government. Then my question to the representative Hagen is: does SV and the representative Hagen have any ideas or suggestions on how the government should further develop this over-management of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e593	No, as far as I know, the government has no ambition to further develop over-management. But the government is concerned – I tried to say that in my post – that there really are some cross-thinking and dilemmas about how we should get to this interaction as best we can. One reason for this is that there are different groups in society who are concerned about safeguarding their interests and what is important for that particular interest group, for example: in the field of service. Not least, the Progress Party is very good at contributing in this way. But that sum all in all becomes too large, sailing about it behind every single law and regulation are good intentions, we all agree on that, and not least it is also fixed as an interesting and challenging dilemma in the big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e602	It's refreshing with a new committee leader who dares to think a little outside the box, and I think the post to the representative Hagen was interesting, where he pointed out that it might be a bit disappointing, without a 'thirty action', as he said. Then he took himself in a little bit and said that maybe it was because everyone was so satisfied that it was the status quo. Then there may be no point in making a big message – if it is not intended to make any changes. Then the representative is involved in dispute resolution and sees opportunities within it. But what I want to ask is what the representative brings up at the end of his post, where he points out that the weakest link, or where it is the worst organised, is the state. That's the real question – now the government council is not responsible for state activities here; it's a bit of a shame and a bit of a joke: what measures does Hagen take to improve government governance or to improve the organisation of the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e609	I do not have a good answer to that. A few years ago, I took part in the governance reform debate. I think that was an exciting debate. There was really an attempt to reorganize the state level, not least the regional level, because the regional state has divided Norway, I think we said, between 30 and 35 different ways in the worst. This creates a chaotic situation, both for those who are going to deal with the state, and not least for those who are going to work within the state system and on behalf of the state. For me, it is not a defeat that this big message does not give a final answer to this. I think the big message for me works well in the way that it points out the problem in a good way. Then we have to keep working on it. It seems to me that, among other things, We in this committee are actually going to have the main focus on – we're going to say – our own level, the state, more than being so very concerned with the municipal structure issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e616	Here at Stortinget we adopt matters that have direct implications for local freedom of action and local self-government. It's not always I think we're fully aware of that. I will take one example, because I believe that SV – at least in my view – has underestimated the consequences of removing the cash support for two-year-olds. One thing is what happens, or what it does with poverty, but another thing is that there is now a great need for new kindergartens, without being followed up by sufficient resources from the state – an example of a decision taken here, which has direct implications for municipalities. Does Aksel Hagen and SV see that the removal of the cash support has also helped to reduce the operating space of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e625	I believe this in a way was two questions. On the one hand, I think it is right to remove the cash support and encourage the kids to be in kindergarten. So it's a good point that when we first do this, it has to be financed in a decent way, so that those who are going to put this into life, the state – cf. My post – is very dependent on municipalities being able to implement government policies. If it's not well enough funded, there's a problem. I have also followed that debate. There's a little bit of a conflict of fact here also between the different parties, so I have nothing more to say besides that if this isn't well enough funded, it has to be better funded. The last words in that debate between the state and the municipality have not been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e635	The central party wants society to be built from below. A living local self-government presupposes municipal freedom of action. Local knowledge and local governance are prerequisites for providing equivalent services. It doesn't necessarily mean equal services. Norwegian municipalities are different in size, population, age composition, and they have different challenges. It also requires that they have different solutions. The notification sets out some important principles and provides some guidance for the long-term future relationship between the State and the municipality. The Government stresses that the principle of generalist municipality is continued – a difficult word, meaning that all municipalities should in principle have the same responsibility, regardless of their size. I don't want A and B municipalities. It does not necessarily mean that all municipalities have to have the same service output. Even today, many tasks are solved through inter-municipal cooperation or through the purchase of services. This applies to both small and large municipalities. The central party is pleased that the framework funding will continue to be the main model for financing the municipal sector and that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will start work on how the various earmarked schemes are designed. Earmarking should only take place in a transitional phase through the introduction of new services, such as: did with the kindergarten reform. Almost all the municipalities visited by the Committee point out that state objections are a challenge in the planning process. That is why I am pleased that a joint committee is asking for better coordination for state objections. Local authorities must receive objections from a better coordinated state, and not as is often the case today, that different state objections are contradictory. The new Law on Planning and Building places restrictions on access to raise objections and demands participation in processes. If not, the right to raise objections will fall away. The comprehensive reporting obligation is another theme that addresses municipalities. The notification states that the State shall not impose unused reporting on the municipalities. It might sound obvious, but it doesn't always work that way. My wish is that reporting through KOSTRA should be sufficient to provide the country with the necessary control tool. The centre party is concerned that central guidance is targeted and shall be requested by the municipality. The municipalities, through the KS, must be more involved in the design of supervisors. The question of community mergers is a recurring debate, both among the parties on Stortinget and in several municipalities. For the Central Party, the principle of volunteering is established. Community mergers can be positive if the municipalities and the inhabitants themselves want to do so. I think the wit is evenly distributed throughout the country, and only those who know the local conditions, who are competent to say what provides the best services. In my opinion, the state should neither slow down nor speed up locally initiated merger processes. I believe that the Communication sets out a sensible approach by stating that the State will cover all direct costs of aggregation and that the breakdown grant is now maintained for 15 years, plus five years of dwindling. Let me round by saying this: the municipalities manage one third of the state budget. The state has great confidence in the municipalities. We can best see that through the ever-new and big tasks the municipalities get. The last example is the responsibility for health and prevention through the Interaction Reform. Municipalities represent political power, jobs and institutional weight. They contribute to local social development. It is as central as local welfare development. At the same time, local authorities have a responsibility to demonstrate that they contribute value added to the performance of public tasks — efficient and good services, the involvement of citizens — while ensuring the legal certainty of individuals. We all want government control and supervision to be reduced. It requires active and visible self-control in the municipalities. Self-control is most effective and provides the best basis for local learning and improvement. It also helps to ensure the room for action of local politicians. Finally, over 175 years, municipalities have proven to be innovative and adaptable organisations. The centre party will have an equivalent interaction between municipalities, countries and residents – not power struggle, over-management and detail management. This Communication contributes to the further development of a strong local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e666	It is clear from the message that the monitoring of government instruments shows a trend in which the state places increasing emphasis on procedures and reporting, which means that bureaucracy has increased. That's not good. What's worse is that the same state and the same municipality impose even more reporting on others. I would then like to refer to a message from the NRK Sogn and Fjordane about one who operates a fishing business in Måløy, which says: ‘There is a great deal of expenditure for both public and documentation, food supervision, directorate and social costs.’ Fish and ladders in Vågsøy Centerparti, Nils Myklebust, like the development. What does the representative of Mr. Greni have to say to the leader of the Vågsøy Center Party, who wants a rationalisation of the reporting process?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e678	As regards reporting and the relationship between the State and the municipality, I share the concern that it is a heavy reporting obligation for the municipalities. There is also one thing that is problematic in the message. I am very pleased that the message points out that we need better self-control in the municipalities, simpler reporting systems, and that we also need less government supervision when these systems are in place. As regards the reporting obligation for private enterprises, there is a completely different question. But I also share the concern that it could develop into a challenge for private entrepreneurs, especially small businesses. So it's definitely a problem we need to pay attention to in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e686	I record that the representative, Mr. Greni, has very much the same approach as the one that the Right has in the debate on the state and municipality, namely that the municipalities are the very foundation, and that one should give them the greatest possible freedom of action and, at the same time, limit the authority of the State. Two years ago, the Council of State of Navarsete had a counter-power tour, because the Oslo power – as one first called it, and then it became more the power of the central governing body – towards District Norway, towards the municipalities, had become too large, so now should one limit this from the Central Party team. I expect that it is this big message that we now have to deal with, that should be the end result of this fight against central power. Does Greni think that one has succeeded in presenting counterpower in this big message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e693	The presentation of the counterpower turn is not entirely familiar with me. I saw it as a way of engaging the districts around Norway in the field of industrial development, bringing together the regions to have a greater professional environment, greater coordination. So I didn't realize that it was a war against Oslo, but a strengthening of the community around the regions. I also think that this message responds to a lot of issues that we have with regard to the state-municipality relationship, and it shows some principles about how we should move on to solve them, both with regard to the objection issue, which is a barrier to some municipalities, and with regard to reporting obligations. Then we probably share the view that local self-government is the best thing for the community and for the provision of services to our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e700	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e703	I also put myself in the line behind those who think it has been very right to get that message. Although it is a principle message that does not contain so many new measures or new, big visions, it has been an important message to work with. In this way, I would like to thank the Council of State for having it presented at all. The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. For this to be possible, it is assumed that the distribution of power and funding are such that municipalities have sufficient means to carry out their tasks. There must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipalities and the finances of the municipalities. State reforms and impositions must therefore be followed up by adequate free means. Municipalities are the main provider of welfare services. Providing adequate welfare services requires a predictable and good local economy. The Christian People's Party believes that there must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipalities and the finances of the municipalities. For many municipalities, economic development has been the status quo in the last few years, and for many, economic development has unfortunately declined. As the survey of national rapporteurs and advisers also shows, the gap between expectations and what the local economy provides has increased in recent years. Never has this gap been larger than now. The municipalities are the first line service to facilitate business and social development. This also requires revenue to be proportionate to its responsibilities and obligations. Norway is a long-term country with many different municipalities with different challenges. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate a living rule of the people locally and regionally, where the elected representatives can take advantage of their local and regional advantages for the benefit of the inhabitants, the business community and the community. A well-functioning local democracy is important. The Christian People's Party will work to ensure that the state governs mainly through frameworks, so that the freedom of action of the local authorities increases and local democracy strengthens. The dialogue between the Government and the KS must be further developed and efforts must be made to make the consultation system more binding. I'm glad there's been a positive development in that way. The income system must ensure predictability, maintenance of the housing pattern and good welfare services in all municipalities. It is important that municipalities and regions cooperate on what is useful to jointly resolve. The Christian People's Party will strengthen intercommunal cooperation. In several areas, inter-municipal cooperation can lead to better services, more robust and interesting professional environments and more efficient use of resources. Good democratic governance must also be ensured where inter-municipal cooperation is chosen. Now we have just adopted in Stortinget a new joint municipal law that goes into the range of ways the municipalities can cooperate on important tasks. I think that several municipalities could benefit from joining forces. Such processes must primarily be stimulated by good local cooperation solutions, focusing on local democracy, good services for the inhabitants and well-functioning entities. Voluntaryness must be the basis for community mergers. We see that for municipalities with large geographic sizes and scattered settlements or peripheral locations, it may not be appropriate and not enough to get together with other municipalities. However, even such small-scale municipalities need to be provided with a financial basis in order to provide the population with an equivalent service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e734	In the introductory remarks to this position, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, reads as follows: ‘These members’ – probably unlike us in the majority – ‘will have sustainable and viable municipalities that create warm and secure communities, not empty shells’. Can the representative Bekkewold name at least one municipality, perhaps any number of municipalities, which deserve the designation ‘clean shell’?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e744	No, I can't mention a single municipality that deserves such a name. This is a description of how we want to develop local democracy. We also say a lot in our remarks about the relationship between government tasks and the ability of local authorities to carry out the tasks in a good way. There must be consistency between the tasks imposed by the State, and the municipalities are able to contribute, and what kind of services they can provide. There is not one municipality that deserves such a reference. It's a description of how we don't want it, and then it's a description of how we want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e751	I thought it would be a little bit difficult to give an example like that. But then I can ask the question in a slightly different way: Does the representative Becquerad believe that there is actually a real danger that some municipalities might become such an empty shell, or is it such that, in more thoughtful terms, the representative might want to tone down a little bit of this future characteristic of Norwegian municipalities? In that case, the possibility is right here, right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e758	It seems that Lise Christoffersen gets a little hurt by us using such terms – and I understand that. The Workers' Party has now ruled this country for seven years together with two other parties. It is clear that you will certainly have a lot of praise for it. We point to a danger if local democracy is not allowed to flourish. I think it's strange to get such questions from a representative who represents a party that has turned around and who doesn't even want to legislate local democracy. We want a thriving local democracy, and, as I said, not a municipality of Norway with municipalities that can almost be regarded as empty shells.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e767	Yes, I gladly admit that. I'm probably getting a little sore, but it's not the staging representative in me that wakes up. It is the old rapporteur who wakes up and is a little hurt because we have so little faith in the ability to rule in the municipalities. But leave it. I want to grab hold of a statement that the representative Bekkevold had made in his statement. He said that the gap between expectations and the local economy has never been greater than now. The question is, can the representative substantiate that claim in any way? And if the representative could, what does the representative see as the reason for that? Could this be because there was so clearly no basis for expectations at all under the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e776	I pointed out, before that sentence fell, to a study carried out by the rapporteurs and advisers. It was the KS that had this investigation. So in this survey, it turns out to be a big gap between what is expected and what the local economy is giving way to. It was probably in connection with the investigation that I was tempted to say that the gap has never been greater than now. This is a real problem issue that I believe the red-green government does not have enough focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e784	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e787	It's interesting to sit in the hall and listen to the debate today. It is interesting because the debate reflects that there is a fundamental belief in local democracy, even though one may disagree at some point. It promises good for future local democracy in Norway, a local democracy that me no celebrates the 175th anniversary of the Presidency laws, and where I am now, when I am around the country at municipal conferences – from north to south – meet people elected with ambitions, with leadership and from all parties. There are local populaces who are content with a government that listens to them both when it comes to economics, free means, and not least that one has seen local democracy and the relationship between state and municipality on the agenda. There are little negative posts to get when a travels around, but many constructive recordings. It makes me feel better. Constructive recordings are also in this room, and so am I. The principle message on the relationship between the State and the municipality confirms the principle of framework management of municipalities and counties. The government governance of the local government sector shall be based on legal and financial framework management, guidance and dialogue. The latter is not least important. It's almost 20 years since the last government and big business had the opportunity to discuss an overarching communication on the relationship between the state and the municipalities. Therefore, this is an important message. The principles and directions used by the message are to guide the interaction between the state and the municipalities for a long time in the future. Let me repeat briefly why we should have financial and legal framework management: Local government has self-esteem. It is true that the municipalities exist for the inhabitants. But the municipality is more than one service provider. The municipality is also an arena for the rule of the people and the development of the community. It is reasonable and effective to use municipalities to provide welfare services. The community's money is spent most effectively if each municipality can give priority to what is the most important network in that municipality. It's a tailor's room that makes us use less services and less resources than centralizing a rigid system. Municipalities shall develop communities that are safe for the inhabitants and have growth and ambitions. In there is just what I said that the municipality is more than one service provider. He is a community developer and an arena for the development of democracy – by popular government. Framework management means that the state and society have to tolerate variation because local conditions vary. There are different challenges in Utsira and Oslo, but with the system of government, thanks to local customization and governance will receive good services both in Utsira and in Oslo. Local tailors' room under the leadership of local populace must provide for national targets to be set. This insight is fundamental when we are discussing local self-government and what the government is going to do in municipalities and county municipalities. There is also a clear objective in the message that the state should make more use of joint development measures, where municipalities and countries cooperate on quality development, efficiency and empowerment. In our view, it can be more targeted than ear marking and detailed control. The Joint Programme on a Better Municipality, and the new strategy for innovation in municipalities, which I have taken the initiative for now, are good examples of this. The message also determines that all local authorities should have the same task. Citizens must have the same access to services wherever they live – we want to have generalist municipalities. All parties to the Municipal Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, support the continuation of this principle. I'm glad. The state has the right and the duty to govern, but it needs to be used to adapt to the challenges to be addressed, and there must be national concerns that underpin the governance of the state. What services the municipality needs most, what is right to adapt, what is the right measure to develop business and community – it must affect those who live in the municipality itself. The message also underlines the important role that both municipalities and municipalities have as community developers. This is also about trust. The municipalities have shown through history that they are innovative and willing to change. They need freedom for local customization to continue with just that. Developments in state governance under changing governments show that there is great faith in law management. The message provides the basis for the law to continue, of course, but in cooperation with the municipalities and with confidence in the municipalities' ability to control themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e824	The municipal minister is busy with the so-called framework management of the municipalities and is also busy increasing their so-called free resources. In the past, kindergartens were funded by a single price system, for which the Advance Party has a great sense. So let's leave this so that the children's rights went into the local authorities' frames. According to the Minister of Local Affairs, this should increase local freedom of action and strengthen local democracy if one is given more free resources. At the same time, kindergartens cost the same price, and the requirements for kindergartens are the same. I can't get this all with me. I would like to ask the Minister of State to explain to me how it has increased freedom of action and strengthened local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e831	No matter how good models we try to make centrally, a system in which the state controls detail will become stiff-legged. One will not get the dynamic of a local government when looking at its municipality, the number of kindergartens and how to interact with the different sectors of the municipality. You can see the funds in a completely different way, and there are of course different needs in different municipalities. A local priority can be taken into account, and – it is important – to have a government to ensure that the funds are adequate. There is a basic premise. And one listens to the municipalities. When KS said that there was not enough kindergarten coverage, we added more funds into the revised national budget – we have added 300 million. kr more until next year – because we listen to the KS and local government sector, as well as a good growth in the free resources within the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e836	The President believes it is possible to give the representative Gjermund Hageset a reply. The left is not in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e839	I just have to say that I do not feel that I have become so much wiser about this. For the municipal minister, there's less detailed management and all of this, but that's exactly the same detail, the exact same regulation of kindergartens, as before the funding, before one had priced funding where the municipalities got money according to how many children they had in kindergarten. Now you say that when you have framework funding, a priority can be changed, that it becomes a local democracy. There are many fine formulations, but does this change mean that local politicians, if they want to, can give away money to kindergartens, so that there is a poorer supply for children in kindergartens? Is this what's inside this? If that's not the case, I can't believe that this has increased the freedom of action and strengthened local democracy in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e844	In all that comes from the Hagesets and the Progress Party attached to the municipalities, there is a very mistrust – a very distrust that the local populace will try to make the services worse. I, and the government party, have great confidence that one will actually make it better, that those who are close to its inhabitants, and who meet them at the store every single day, will actually have even greater ambitions to provide even better services than we do – even if one does a lot of good in this room and in government offices. So maybe it's hard for Hagesetter to understand the ideology and the idea set behind our governance of the municipalities, which builds on trust, on dialogue, on frameworks that provide space for societal development and service development, and a secure assurance that those who are elected locally will do everything they can to provide the best possible services. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e851	If, two years ago, the National Council of Navarsete's counter-power tour was about to establish counter-power – and that must be assumed – we can see that it was exceptionally successful. For it is a counter-power experienced by local government every day, by not realizing plan decisions because, for example: are 22 state planning bodies which have the right of objection. So my question is whether this counterpower doesn't worry the Council of States. And more concretely, can the Council of States mention only one of these bodies, just one, but more than one, which she would like to remove as part of a reduction in the counter-power and thus increase the executive power of local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e858	As a former local politician, I might have framed quite a number of instances that I at times felt were looting and embezzled when I, as a local politician, wanted to get things through. As the responsible state council, I'm not going to do that. However, I will refer to the work of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on which they have a good dialogue, to go through the counter-government powers – look at who makes deposits, what they prefer – and use this as a basis for better coordination. And that's necessary. When I'm at the municipal conferences I've been to, there's one question that often goes on and on, and it's a lot of a thing about wanting the countersigns to be more coordinated. That view I share, and that's why we're working on this, and that's what we're going to get back to in our own way. But it's necessary to go through this, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e865	Both the Party of State Councils and the Christian People's Party have the principle of subsidiarity as an important pillar of party politics. In a questionnaire launched by KS, rapporteurs and advisers have replied that there is a misunderstanding between the economic space and the tasks entrusted to the municipalities by the government. Does the Council of State see that the continuing disparity between the state's expectations for the municipalities and the action rooms of the municipalities can threaten the autonomy and freedom of action of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e873	I do not fear, as the opposition does, that municipalities should become an empty shell. The government that we now have has increased freedom of action, both through a historically low ear mark and through a strong focus on not regulating and laying – in particular – hidden orders into the municipality. This has been done by previous governments; one has added a frame, and then comes after what the frame should actually be used for. I have said that I should be honest with the local government sector. They're not always going to get what they want, but we're going to have an honest dialogue. What is presented as free means shall be free means, and what is provided by control shall be followed up by means. We continue to work on this -- not least in good cooperation with KS. We have a very good dialogue with KS. I'm, like the representative Bekkeword, very busy that there should be a match between the tasks you have, and the means you get to follow up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e880	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e883	Now that we've talked about the 175 years of the Presidency Act, it's in place to remind you that there were two important purposes of the Presidency Act. One was to ensure a way of solving important national tasks, and the other was to emphasise the self-value of local democracy. Then the State has a responsibility to ensure that the municipalities have sufficient framework conditions to carry out the mission they have received from Stortinget. The main framework factor for municipalities is the economy. One economic factor is, of course, the size of the local government sector. Then I have to remind the assembly that there has been a significant growth in the income of municipalities in recent years, and this has been announced a further growth. Since 2005, the income of the local government sector has actually increased by about 59 billion. kr. It corresponds to an annual average real growth of 2,6 pst. For 2013, the government also contributes to a real growth in the free income of the local government sector of between 4,75 and 5 billion. kr. The details about this will come back to us in the debate on the municipal proposition for 2013. The second important factor in the framework conditions for the local economy is the principle of framework financing. Overall, there has been broad political agreement over the last 25 years, because the principle of framework funding ensures that municipalities – by their elected representatives – can freely give priority to free revenues within the framework of laws and regulations. It ensures local democratic governance. It makes it possible to find good local solutions suitable for the inhabitants of each municipality and ensures effective follow-up to national targets. Together, the values of freedom, participation and efficiency form the basis of legitimacy of local self-government. Everyone in this room knows that, except the Advance Party. The Party – which itself claims to be engaged in freedom, local self-government and the reduction of bureaucracy – rejects the principle of framework funding. Instead, they will finance all the basic welfare services with a state-run single-price financing. So they want to put in place a system that deprives the elected people of their ability to prioritize, thereby depleting local democracy. They will have a system that eliminates the possibility of local tailoring, and they will introduce a system that provides more bureaucracy and less efficiency. It is progress party policy in practice. The third important factor in the economic framework of municipalities is how the funds are distributed between municipalities. The framework grant is distributed to municipalities through the income system. The starting point for this income system is that there are differences between municipalities, differences arising from differences in the cost of providing services and differences in the tax base. The objective of the income system is to balance the differences, enabling municipalities to provide good and equivalent services to their inhabitants. Through the cost-balancing of the income system, municipalities shall in principle be fully compensated for differences in service costs which they themselves cannot affect. We know that the main explanation of the differences in service provision is the differences in income between municipalities. There is a broad consensus on the system of cost-balancing, with the exception of the Progress Party – as mentioned earlier. On the other hand, in terms of income balancing, there is an important distinction between the majority of the Stortinget and the bourgeois parties. Where we are concerned with balancing differences between the incomes of municipalities, citizens want to increase the differences. The practical approach here is the proportion of tax revenue to be made up of the income of municipalities. Where we have reduced the proportion, the citizens propose to increase the proportion. The concrete consequence of this is greater differences in the provision of services in municipalities. Increased differences in tax income result in increased differences in well-being. In the context of the 2010 revision of the cost key, it was estimated that 77 municipalities would increase their revenues by the tax being a larger proportion of their revenues. But it would also mean that 353 municipalities had to pay that bill, that the inhabitants of 353 municipalities would have a lower service offer, and that the differences increased. For example, all municipalities from Nord-Trøndelag and northward would lose weight on this, with the exception of Hammerfest. One of the characteristics of the Norwegian model is that there are relatively small differences between people. There are relatively small differences in the welfare offer we have access to. Therefore, we would still have a balancing of municipal tax revenues, so it would be wrong to go up those differences. In the change of line earlier today, we have tried to challenge the bourgeois parties to clarify the policy they intend to pursue towards Norwegian municipalities, especially in terms of economics. They won't answer that. They point out that they will negotiate after the elections. Nor will they respond to the need for framework financing or price financing. Nor will they answer whether they should have generalist municipalities or whether they should have A and B municipalities. The voters who vote in the Advance Party and in the Right must be clear about this. If not, we will go to a choice where we are at risk of having an alternative with great uncertainty in economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e902	With reference to the previous article, one can see that some of the problem is that one is not quite sure what the government wants with the local government, after reading the announcement promoted by the government. It has been pointed out by others that the message contains many fine values that no sensible man would find to distance himself from. But politics is the more than ramming honorary words, although I also know someone who is confined to it. Policy is sometimes also to give priority to values, to tell which balances you make between good values, and simply what principles you have in the event of a collision. For those who want to know what the government really thinks about the local government sector, this message may not be the best place to start. Then, also by reference to the previous article, which called for the opposition's view, I can at least explain the Right's views and our main principles. The principle of subsidiarity: all decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those affected by the decisions. The results shall be transparent so that the public can have a reasoned opinion on how confidence has been managed. It is completely elementary in the right-hand-ruled municipalities, e.g. as school owners. Once again, this is a debate about whether things should happen hidden or open. We have to accept that not all solutions are going to be the same. The assumption e.g. for innovation, it is precisely based on the fact that some people are starting to do the problems differently from before. It should also apply to the public sector. Central politicians have to accept that local people in different municipalities choose different priorities, different solutions, and that they can develop different policies from municipality to municipality, and that they can also differ from how the ideal world should have been built, from a case manager’s office in Oslo. Local democracy must not be seen as a forceful and necessary evil, but simply as a means of strengthening decisions by using local knowledge to make decisions better. So it's amazing that at least one political level in society is not so oil infected. Here in this room you might say that in the background you can draw some of the oil sources. But the priority work done in counties and municipalities is precisely based on having a framework, and actually prioritises every single day. A clearer division of labour between central and local authorities. In order for voters to be able to hold their elected representatives responsible locally, it must be made clear who is responsible. It also reduces the possibility of shifting real responsibility to others. The income system needs to be reviewed in such a way that municipalities live to a greater extent than at present on their own tax revenues. They are becoming increasingly dependent on government appropriations — and therefore also leaders. Company taxes must mainly be returned from the state to the municipality. Less earmarked grants: it is gratifying that there has been a decrease in the proportion of earmarked grants. But now there is a threat from another side: underfunded state reforms. In particular, it is problematic for the state to grant direct legal rights to the public to be exercised by municipalities without increasing income accordingly. The State must coordinate its own sectoral interests and balance them against the need for meaningful local democracy. In fact, if you continue to control the bureaucrat board indefinitely, the local self-government becomes titular, or as it is also said: an empty shell. State requirements and standard requirements for individual sectors need to be reviewed with a view to remediation, in order to enhance local discretion. The general supervisory duty of the county council under the municipal law and special laws imposing obligations on the municipalities shall be such as to ensure that the local council has taken legal decisions within the law’s standards of security — do not overestimate the content of the decisions of the local councils. If you want to participate in local democracy, you have to list and sign up for local democracy – not feel tempted to use their central powers. The application of planning and building laws and land use shall continue to be the main tasks of the municipalities. The right of objection of State bodies shall be limited to a minimum, with only national common concerns. And last, but not least, size counter. Efforts must be made to ensure that decisions are taken at the lowest effective level, not at the lowest possible level of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e943	I would like to go back a little bit to the claim about the municipalities as empty shells in meeting with an unsavory state. The debate on the relationship between the State and the municipality is not new. On the contrary, this is just the last of the series of debates that have been going on for almost 200 years. But I have never before seen any expression of such little confidence in the municipalities as the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party do in this setting. The opposition describes a Commune Norway almost without power and its own muscles. A municipality is a politically controlled organisation with independent responsibility for its own dispositions, a responsibility the municipalities also take. It is in stark contrast to the one-dimensional remarks of the opposition that it is only the fault of the state that many municipalities do not comply with the 3 pst recommendations. net operating surplus. But, of course, this is politics. It is tempting with a little Bible quotation in this regard, from 1 Kings 17:14, where it says: For thus saith the Lord God of Israel; The milk pot shall not be empty, neither shall there be any oil in the pitcher until the day that the LORD sendeth rain upon the earth. For the potentially vague, this is the story of the jar of Sarepta. And to be honest, Haga, Kleppa and Navarsete's 60 billion. kr is poured over the municipalities since 2005 probably more similar to this famous jar than the predecessor of Erna Solberg's economic strupetak on the municipalities. The opposition's comments on this communication leave an impression of the bewildered municipal politicians, praised by a supranational state power. In this debate, even the party of progress has compared it to the domestic meeting with the predator. I think that is a poor settlement of the municipalities that they do not deserve. It is more fruitful and right to emphasise the actual working space of the municipalities and the importance of appreciating this space. Economics and services are one example; the role of municipalities as community developers is another. Here, too, I think the opposition is undermining the influence that municipalities have, and that many of them are actually actively using. In the role of the social developer, the law on planning and building is the most important tool they have — the more planning and building laws, the more power local people electors, and the more special law and supervision, the more power for government sector interests. We're controlling that balance from here. By adopting new planning and building laws in 2008, which entered into force on 1 July 2009, this vast majority of municipal politicians who really want to do something with their community equipped with a tool for political governance. In a five-minute post, it's impossible to get into all aspects of this, but we can take the objection institute as an example, as many have been concerned about it. So the opposition has a special comment that I just don't understand, that objections from the state must, in their opinion, be made by law or by law. Yeah, well, that house is in the Law on Planning and Building. Or does the opposition think that we should sit on the Stortinget and make special laws that regulate this down to the smallest detail? If so, what kind of organistry is it? Not to talk about what bureaucracy it would take, and how much power it would take away from the local politicians. But it is not said that everything works as it should and should. An overall committee points out that in all parts of the country we are being met with dissatisfaction at what the municipalities perceive as an extensive right of objection on the part of state agencies, against municipal plans. However, when the majority refers to those paragraphs of new planning and building laws that restrict the access of sectoral authorities to raise objections, the opposition jumps off. I don't get it either. For example, a completely significant new provision says: that all objectors must actually participate with their competence and make possible conflicts visible from the day one at the start of work on a new plan. So if you don't have the right to object. The assumption is that the municipality as a planning authority has notified of the start of work. But there is reason to take seriously the complaints we hear, especially that these are exactly the same complaints we heard before the new law was passed. This may indicate non-compliance with the new legislation. Then the challenge is to figure out why. The reason may lie in a sector bureaucracy that does not know, or that gives the bluff, or it may be located in municipalities that do not have the capacity to take the action space. Both parts are bad, but the answer must then be to convey knowledge about the limitations that actually apply, and – even more importantly – what opportunities it actually provides to take municipal political governance. The majority ask for such an initiative in their comments, but the minority is therefore strangely passive. We are pleased that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Local Affairs are already doing such work, and we are looking forward to its results being presented in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e965	The title of the Storting Message is State and Municipality – governance and interaction. In housing policy, we clearly see that good interaction between the state and the municipality is essential, but we also see that governance is necessary. The forecasting centre estimates the annual housing demand in Norway at 38 000 new dwellings per year. Last year, a good year, it was built 28 000. The distance between supply and demand provides higher housing prices and makes it more difficult for young people to establish themselves. We see it more clearly in the press areas. It is a development that disturbs us in the Workers' Party, which will require considerably greater efforts in many municipalities, but also a better interaction between the state and the municipalities. In municipalities it is about regulating sufficient space for housing purposes, about handling construction matters quickly, about land policy and about building municipal housing. Many municipalities experience that in their many divisions, the state limits the possibility of taking this responsibility. The Labour Party wants municipalities with offensive and forward-looking housing policies to meet a country that acts in a coordinated and constructive manner. An overall committee points out in its comments the issue of State freedom of objection. As the case-rapporteur for Greece mentioned, almost half of the municipal plans meet with state objections. These objections concern species diversity, cultural heritage protection, future railway and service industries, fishing interests, soil protection, etc. All of these are important interests of the community, which should not necessarily be set aside by a single municipal government decision. The problem is how and when the state promotes its objections. There's got to be a clean-up job. But let me add: the attacks on statesmen who do their job are unworthy. Those who are critical should rather point to the rules that they believe should be removed and the reasons that should give way. The Labour Party believes that the Planning and Building Act allows much better planning processes than is usual today. When the committee visited Vestfold, we saw examples of this. There is reason to praise County Erling Lae, Vestfold County Municipality and the municipalities in the county for the way they have cooperated on the area. This model – the Vestfold model – should inspire other states. In a debate where the tribute of local democracy and municipal autonomy has almost been unison, I think there is a need to nuance a little. Municipal self-government, which is a good thing, also represents some challenges. We see it clearly in housing policy. The willingness to prioritize residential construction varies between municipalities. In many municipalities where housing needs are high, the local government has the brakes on it. When, on a national basis, we don't get enough housing built because the municipalities don't facilitate it, is the answer to passivity, or are there any demands made on the municipalities? I think the case rapporteur, Greece, made a good contribution, but his call for the greatest possible freedom of action and a reform of freedom for the municipalities, I think, is a reason to problem. For the question is freedom for whom? Does such a reform mean that the individual local government will plan even more within its local boundaries without taking into account national or regional needs? And in housing policy: plan without taking into account new residents or next generation home buyers? Unfortunately, many municipalities do more to slow down than to facilitate population growth and housing. We can take Bærum as an example. Recently known as the leader of the Norwegian Association of Real Estate Agents, Finn Tveter, Bærum a ‘hosting’ in housing policy. He pointed out that the political majority ‘does not see it as their task’ to facilitate new dwellings. Bærum's rapporteur, Lisbeth Hammer Krog, said as true: 'Bærum will not continue, the municipality will retain the distinctive character of the municipality'. Unfortunately, Bærum is not alone in wanting to preserve its peculiarity and listen most to those who are already well established in the municipality. Many municipalities experience that the state is making housing construction difficult. We must ensure that the state's objections to municipal plans are promoted and handled better than today, but the municipalities must also take their share of responsibility. In many municipalities, the political will it stands on – and against. In the housing policy, we clearly see that the relationship between the state and the municipality must be about the title of the gross domestic product: State and municipality – governance and interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e986	Self-control is an important element in building trust in the municipality, including: by preventing and detecting maladministration, breach of rules and other adverse conditions in the municipality. Another important element is that control work provides the basis for learning and improvement. The self-control of municipalities and county councils is governed by municipal law. The Municipal Committee, the auditor and the Administrative Manager perform different control activities to ensure the efficient and proper use of the resources and that the services comply with legal and local requirements. The municipalities have a wide range of tasks. In order for self-control to be effective, it is important that it covers all the ways in which the municipality performs its tasks. The Code imposes accounting audit, administrative audit and company control on municipalities. The Labour Party is committed to the experience of the inhabitants of the municipality of Norway as an arena of participation and commitment to the development of its community. Municipalities are governed by the direct elected representatives of the local government, but the municipality is also characterised by the usual population, voluntary teams and organisations, local businesses, suppliers, county councillors, state directorate and national rules. Everyone will be involved and influence his municipality, and many will influence for an improvement. Of course, state rules and leadership have a major impact on the behaviour of municipalities. However, appropriate legislation is not enough, so work on an open administration must be maintained through work on attitudes and good practice at local level. The legal requirements for processing, transparency and self-control are intended to ensure good processes within municipalities. The rules on complaint, supervision, warning and legal control provide for the possibility to deal with situations that are not as they should be under the law. The civil officer and other agents may also point to defects and defects. If a municipality is to operate well, it is important to have closeness and knowledge of the municipality. The Supervisory Board and the Administrative Manager have their functions in the municipality, and the auditor is associated with it. The self-check includes both the control of what has happened and what is happening. It is important that the municipality's citizens perceive the control systems within the municipality as functioning well and that they have a high level of legitimacy. We can see control from two different perspectives. In the first perspective, the check is about detecting defects and deficiencies in order to place the responsibility where it belongs. The audit is about accountability. In the second perspective, the control is about investigating and evaluating. The control in this perspective will be able to produce new or modified control signals and can be called control as a control basis. In a concrete control process in a municipality, there will often be a mix of these two perspectives, but then with different weights. In the big news we are discussing today, in Chapter 9, the Department provides a brief overview of the history of the rules on control and audit and of some of the research reports we have in this area. In order for municipalities to have the confidence they need to be a good municipality, it is important that they do the tasks they are required by law in a way that is consistent with the rules in force — whether for care places for the elderly or for good childcare facilities for the children. In other words, the municipalities have a duty to keep order in their own house. Nevertheless, I would like to end by pointing out that the State as legislator has a responsibility to facilitate a comprehensive internal control in the municipalities – in cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1007	It was the change of lines and the lack of response from the Right and the Advance Party that made me feel tempted to take the word again. We don't think there'll be a bourgeois majority in the next elections, but the voters are entitled to know what kind of policy any other government might be going on. Then we get the political differences. That's good for the voters. But we record that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party will provide such clarification, and that creates uncertainty. Because they're not responding, we can just read the notes from these two parties to this big message, and it'll be clear. If it becomes a shift, there will be less money for the vast majority of Norwegian municipalities. Both the Right and the Advance Party will change the tax distribution. Public authorities shall retain more of their funds. They need to be strengthened. Differences will increase because the tax-deprived municipalities will retain less. That means that the vast majority of Norwegian municipalities are going to get worse. We can also read that the county will be demolished. This is in agreement with the Right and Advance Party. We can get priced funding, because the Progress Party will have – if they get through. Furthermore, it may be that the Progress Party will have an impact in order for the State to be removed and replaced by an Administrative Court. There may be coercion in the case of community mergers. The notes show that there will be very large differences between a red-green government and any dark-blue government, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party. I note that the Right and the Advance Party disagree in some areas. It's natural for different parties. It doesn't worry me either. What worries me more is what they agree on. Then there will be changes in Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1022	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1025	In my opinion, Trond Helleland had a partly good question, which was about the different roles/hats of the County State. I agree that a dispute resolution body can address – to say – the coordination/clearance pressure away from the State. But it doesn't solve what was my main point, namely that today, according to the Planning and Building Act, the County Council is going to go early into planning processes and represent heavy national interests. It's an important problem. At the same time, the same County cannot be a mercenary/broiler between state and municipality. Here's a dilemma. To put into practice what Michael Tetzschner says, that the red-greens are fuzzy and little preconceived, while the Right is very preconceived: this is an example that neither the Right is preconceived. To go a little further on the regional level, which we have also discussed here: some of the fine things about the governance reform debate and the positions that part of us had in it, was that we tried to clean up at the regional level. We democratized it. We put part of the state under political, democratic control in the new county/region. It wouldn't be on the right. Right would, and still will, just put down the county. They do not – as far as I can see – take part in the important debate on what to do with the state, regional level, which is currently so intransparently organised and which makes an overall approach difficult, not least in terms of national policies. What characterises us who are happy and want to strengthen the county community is that we have great faith that national policies should gain regional added value around our country. The whole process up to the introduction of regional added value should not least be political, and should thus be added to a political body at regional level. Here I think the Right is not fully thought out – that is the positive interpretation. I think the Right with more life and desire should participate in this debate, and not just engage in the municipal structure debate. Speaking of municipal structure: it's easy to take the position that this one has to clean up. A little cross of thought, maybe, when someone else celebrates the municipal maritime administration and seems to have faith in it in every way: in terms of municipal structure, the state suddenly has to be very clear in it, because here you can't trust the Municipality-Norway Sea. What I haven't seen yet is this: how will the new municipal map, which someone in the center should sit and draw, really look like? It's easy to say that it's going to be drawn by someone sitting here in Oslo, but what's it really going to look like?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1042	The one who made me speak for the second time was Lise Christoffersen, who had trouble understanding our remark about the opposition institute. What we're pointing to is that, in addition to the fact that of course there is a proper legal basis for these 22 bodies that have the right to object, to stop, block and, at best, to delay the disposal of land in the municipalities, we have seen examples that these bodies – some of them – feel that they have special interests. This has in some cases led to a lack of care about the grounds on which they object, for example: that they do not respect the 10-year rule, which states that if it has been clarified earlier in a period prior to the spatial plan, no objection can be raised on the same basis. At that time the attitude has been to do the job best as a special interest body if you nevertheless promote objections, even if the basis for the legal basis is doubtful. It's just to prevent such a practice that our parties have supported this formulation. Otherwise, I think that the debate also gradually reveals the real attitude of the Labour Party towards local democracy: that local democracy is good at a certain point, and that is when local priorities differ from the central and so-called national efforts. Then it is usually the municipalities that are going to do the task, and then the bill is going to be for the taxpayers. It's a common traffic, and for those who are in doubt about what I mean, I can refer to the Haugli representative's posts, who had the address of local democracy here in the area, namely Bærum Municipal Government. I assume that Haugli has some party traps left in the Bærum that can target this vision. What I might agree with is that, on the other hand, through tax redistribution, we reward the tax-rich municipalities too little, so that they don't see themselves as well as fit for housing that they could have had if they kept a larger share of the tax revenue. There might also be something on the incentive side that we should look at, which could stimulate the natural desire for stronger bets on local housing. Then we must not punish the areas that are being moved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1052	The reason why I take the floor is that I feel it is worth commenting on a few of the statements that have been made in the debate. First, to Navarsete State Council, which suggests that the Progress Party has little confidence in the local politicians. I just want to make sure it's completely wrong. The Progress Party has great confidence in local politicians. We think they're doing a great job, but we also record reports that local politicians are often tired, both of meeting the ends financially and of following up the detailed management with regard to the legislation that they are imposed by the state and that poses great challenges for the municipalities. In addition, citizens also have high expectations, which can often be difficult to meet with the financial framework at their disposal. The representative Lise Christoffersen was out suggesting that I was poor enough to make the municipal politicians. The background for that was what I said about the state acting in many ways as a predator when it comes to consuming local freedom of trade. That's the way it is, and it's a fact that when the national lions come into conflict with local democracy, it's the national lion that comes out victorious. Thus, the state has all the means of power: lawmaking, money, and one can control the details with circulars and order without the municipalities being able to take this to neutral bodies to decide whether it is in line with the laws given by the Storting. We also have numbers that show that 94 pst. by the municipal plans are met with entries or notices of inauguration. Then we no longer talk about the municipal government's municipal plans, then it's almost the state's municipal plans. The representative, Ingelill Olsen, said that the voters are entitled to clarify what is going to happen after the 2013 elections. I think it's the red-green ones who feel that they have a right to clarification here. I also record that before the 2005 election there was no clarification at any point from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV when it was cool which one would agree on if a water choice. The representative Aksel Hagen indicates that we want fewer municipalities. That's right, but the Progress Party wants to use economic means, and that this is going to be a volunteer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1065	The representative Haugli was involved in the municipality's willingness to build housing. I have been a municipal government politician myself for some years, and from my own experience I can say that in the municipalities that were in my area, the will was absolutely present in the municipalities to expand. What was, on the other hand, the biggest challenge was objections from the state, from some state agency, whether it was County, State Road Service or what it was. They were the ones who created the problems when, among other things, says we can't build on that area, because there's a special plant, and we can't build on the other side of the new highway because of some stupid explanation. They even said that this municipality has enough plots in relation to the move that has been in the last few years. I don't think it's the will of the municipality that's the biggest problem, either, that's the objections that the state makes. The municipalities will decide for themselves, and they know best where and how it is best to build in their own municipality. Ingelill Olsen says there is an uncertainty about how the Right and Advance Party will finance municipal services. That uncertainty is the creation of the Workers' Party. The population is not so much concerned about how to finance the services but that they are to be financed. That's what's important. At least the Right Party and the Advance Party very much agree that they should be financed – contrary to what this government is doing by largely under-funding municipal tasks. We're not creating any uncertainty. The uncertainty created is that the Workers' Party has created by sub-financing tasks. The uncertainty continues the Workers' Party through this communication, through the State budget, through the revised national budget and the municipal budget. The Progress Party and the Right are concerned with one thing: Services in the municipalities are to be financed. The tasks assigned to the municipalities by the State shall be financed and not treated as the Workers' Party and this Government have done, by imposing tasks without accompanying funds. I can at least promise to get the Right and the Advance Party into government, we will ensure that tasks are well funded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1072	The President would point out that the representative could probably use a more parliamentary expression than ‘poor’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1075	There have been many contributions, particularly from the Workers' Party, which have concentrated more on the policies of parties other than their own. I understand that, because the government and especially the Workers' Party are about to run out of ideas. Then it's okay to shoot at the opposition, trying to express an alternative policy. On the other hand, in his two contributions, the representative Hagen of SV has given the impression that he is actually a little listening and wants to have a dialogue on the development of policies related to the administration of the state and the municipality. He asks the right of the comment where we say that we ‘considers that the county should act as a mediator or ‘positive bridge builder’ in conflicts between State and municipal interests’. He thinks it's a little strange all the time we also want an independent dispute resolution system. As members of the Municipal Committee, we have the joy of meeting all the country's statesmen as we travel on country trips. We also meet the municipalities. To put it very simply, there are two types of statesmen: it is the state that is trying to facilitate the agreement of municipalities and states, and it is the state that sees it as its primary task to promote disagreement and raise objections. Right wants to have the first type of county – a county that contributes to a constructive dialogue and helps to direct municipalities rather than to correct municipalities. That's the answer to that challenge. Then it's made a point that the Right Party and the Advance Party say we want to put down the county council. There is no bomb - it has been programmed for many years. When it comes to how the distribution of tasks is to be done, I can assure the representative, Mr. Ingelill Olsen, who well addressed this, that we are doing well in detail. That plan will be presented in good time before the next elections. No one has to be afraid that the problems are suddenly going to float in the loose air. This shall be properly distributed. It will, of course, take some time to implement such a reform, but the Right will have answers to the challenges that Mr Olsen is calling for. Otherwise, I thank you for a proper debate so far. It's been a clean review. It shows that there is a broad consensus on the main principles of governance and the distribution of tasks between the State and the municipality. We see that there is a lot of confusion about concrete in this message, but we might come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1091	The representative Michael Tetzschner made an important confession in his post, and that is that Bærum and other municipalities are not doing enough to facilitate housing. It's great that he sees it. However, I cannot accept his explanation. I do not think this is about the lack of economic incentives, it is about the lack of political will. A good example of this is Fornebu, which is a short distance from here, but is part of the municipality of Bærum. When that area was regulated, both the state and the municipality of Oslo wanted to regulate more dwellings there than the municipality of Bærum wanted. The current rapporteur, Mr Reinsfelt, correctly stated that they would not: we are the ones who decide. Today's rapporteur is also quite clear that she wants to preserve the distinctive character of the municipality. So this is not about economic incentives – it is about political will. This is also the challenge. In practice, Bærum and Fornebu are part of Stor-Oslo. When one municipality in such a region does not do its job, the challenges and problems are shifted to neighbouring municipalities. That's part of the problem. Another part of the problem is that it's also being pushed over to the next generation. The young people who today grow up in Bærum will have problems establishing themselves in their own municipality. The municipality is also at risk of losing critical key competences, because it simply becomes too expensive for nurses, policemen, firemen, etc. living in the municipality. Michael Tetzschner asks rhetorically if we still have party traps in Bærum. In fact, the Bærum Arbeiderparti was for a higher level of exploitation at Fornebu, but was voted down in the local government. Tonight, Bærum Arbeiderparti organises a debate on housing policy at 9.30 p.m. 6:30 a.m. at the Bekkenstua. I invite Tetzschner and everyone else to come and participate in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1102	I just want to respond very quickly to Gjermund Hageseter, where he says that when the rickshaw is in conflict with local democracy, the rickshaw always goes forth victorious. That's not exactly the case. If one goes into the Ministry of the Environment's websites and sees how the Department has handled the objections that have been raised at the Council of State's table, it is absolutely not that all objections are raised. In a very large number of cases and cases, the municipality is in agreement, possibly having a good idea of negotiating for a solution that is good for both parties from the perspective of both parties. One of the things that is at the heart of the whole new planning and building law is that it equips municipalities with a number of instruments that have one aim: to prevent conflicts, to prevent objections by early cooperation, to work together, to reconcile public resources and to draw in the same direction. The opposite is the wrong use of public resources. If that happens, it's a political responsibility to clean it up. I think this is going to be a very one-sided focus of the citizens on the fact that conflict resolution should be shifted out of politics and into law – this is politics. We want the opposite. We want to strengthen policy both centrally and locally and to reduce sectoral power, because it is always the case that where policy moves out, it moves in administratively. That's not the way we want it. We will take that power back to where it belongs, in politics, and then to a much greater extent at local level. So on top of that – because I see that I'm reaching it – just a little comment on Morten Ørsal Johansen, which I experience repeating what we think is groundless claims about significant underfinancing of the local government sector. A small example: we have just had consultation in the Committee on Community Proposition, which points towards next year. Then I actually heard a KS that was reasonably satisfied, and I think there were some others who heard the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1113	The representative of Greece states that, according to the debate today, there is a wide range of issues about the governance of municipalities. According to the comments, we might say no, it's not. In the most important principles of local government, the Right Party and the Progress Party are deeply different. It applies to the principle of the generalist municipality, to framework management and to the most important principle, I believe, too many municipalities, that they should have local self-government and priority themselves. The right hand side and the forward side, which – at least apparent through what is said – should think of going into government, should clarify it. Another point I have to comment on: Morten Ørsal Johansen says that if the Right Party and the Advance Party come to government, the tasks will be financed. I think that Right-wing people in Bærum went on demonstration trains against Erna Solberg – it has hardly happened before or later in history – when she was a municipal minister, when we had an average of net operating performance in the 1st century. Today the opposition criticises us for not having 3 pst. There is a stark difference between the local economy now and the time when the proclaimed Prime Minister candidate Erna Solberg ruled Norwegian municipalities. There are large-scale representatives in this house – I think especially one from Tøndelag – who said they were happy that the Right came out of the government offices after the 2005 elections, because the municipalities had no longer done it. So save us the promise of the local economy and criticism of the local economy, it's almost not worth righting to. The debate has shown that the Progress Party does not trust the local politicians, as Hageseter says, because if one does, it is funny that one will dismantle the local self-government. We'll talk about predators and domestic animals. Then it is a paradox that the Progress Party will feed the predator and feed the livestock, which I then assume are the municipalities in this image. One will have more local control over plans, but will take away all control of kindergarten, school and care for the elderly. Be local democracy strengthened by it! Another theme that has been raised in part of the debate is municipal structure. It is completely impossible to get an answer to which municipalities do not have the right to live, which municipalities can be empty, which municipalities should be deleted from the map. I think that the inhabitants of those municipalities have a right to know what the future of their municipalities is before the big shot next year. The right hand and the progress path must simply clarify what the municipal map will look like before the selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1124	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1127	This concerns the representative Haugli who had a completely unfair interpretation of my previous post. I have not said anything that can be interpreted as criticism of the local government in Bærum. My post was completely neutral. The representative Haugli went over here from interpretation to completion, and he was injured to fill in with his own views. On the other hand, I used Haugli's opposition to the municipality of Bærum as an example of not living very well with any particular deviation from state ideal standards. To Navarsete I have to say that it may have been that you once in the past went on a train to Erna Solberg as a municipal minister, but I think we should rather realize that the situation in Bærum today is that you go on a train to get her as prime minister, and that is much more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1134	The representative Gjermund Hageseter has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1137	The reason why I take the floor is the Council of States trying to add to the Progress Party positions and meanings that we don't have at all. When she does not find any fault with what we say, I understand that she is looking for something to add to us and twist and twist what we actually mean. It was said that we should disassemble self - control and that we should feed the rickshaw. It's completely wrong. We are busy with the services in Kommune-Noreg, we are concerned that the inhabitants of Kommune-Noreg will receive the basic welfare services they require. Then we think they have to be financed by the state. This does not mean that the municipalities are not responsible. The municipalities are still responsible for these services, but they are to be financed by the State. It is a security for the inhabitants, and it will also mean that it doesn't matter whether a cage is in a rich municipality or in a poor municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1150	I think the Council of State Navarsete demonstrates its powerlessness when she in the post calls for concrete, detailed answers on how both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the other opposition should design their municipal policy and the relationship between the State and the Municipality. When, in a year and a half, she has postponed and postponed this roll-out message that ended up as a principle message without any concrete content, it is quite ready – I would say – to challenge the opposition in detail to present its concrete plans. Had the state councils submitted a big message with substance, with content, with a willingness to rethink the relationship between state and municipality, the opposition would certainly have given a good answer. But we don't want to use up our powder in a debate where the Council of State has proved its powerlessness within the government, and has not got through a single concrete point. Then I think it's quite special to ask the opposition to come up with their answers. At that time, the Council of State must first present policy rather than merely an academic lecture on the principles between the State and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1155	It's obvious that I was boring a toe, and it wasn't that surprising. When it comes to the content of the message, it may be appropriate to summarise that there are actions there – there are not so many that have been involved in them in concrete terms. Measures are related to legal work, there should be clear balances between national and local concerns, and municipalities have a completely different role to play in involving them. There are actions that go on an individual basis, local adaptation of individual courts whenever possible, to consider obligations as an alternative to a right, a comprehensive evaluation and individual level requirements. There are measures related to the management system, how to set it up, and how to go through the directorata – there is a great deal of connection to it in this room, that's good. Not least, there is a firm principle in which the Right Party and the Progress Party are profoundly indisputable about the most fundamental in the governance of the municipal sector, namely whether we should have generalist municipalities responsible for the integrity of the services, whether we should govern them through framework management that gives local freedom and strengthens local democracy, or whether we should go for piece finance and government governance that gives greater differences between municipalities – all research shows that government governance gives greater differences than local governance and distribution. There are actually important differences that emerge in this room today. That seems to me to be quite important for the debate in the future. How do we want to further develop local democracy? What should be the alternative to what we have today? I think the big message is important; it is an important document that sets out an important principle and also has forward-looking measures. We build on dialogue and trust, not on unilateral governmental governance. In the day-to-day work, we are going to work so that we can also build up what is an urgent principle in this message. Then I can live well with the representative of Helleland being provoked. That he had greater expectations, he got to put on his coat. I – and the government – are pleased that we have included in this message the leaders of a strong local democracy. The exciting question now is: Will an alternative with the Right and the Advance Party tear down the solid foundation of local democracy that this government is building up day by day?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1166	The representative Aksel Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1169	I'm not going to ruin the good tone that Trond Helleland and I have had in the debate, but I'm wondering about the last post against the Council of State. Can we really not expect the Right and the opposition parties to be actively engaged in policy development? What Trond Helleland says, is that what the opposition has the maximum capacity to do, is to drive reactive policy development: first we have to come with us, and then the Right will respond to it. No, a party that has the government ambitions of the Right should so absolutely drive active policy development, present the outcome of that policy development to its voters, and not owe it to us if a non-seat has the capacity or competence to drive such policy development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1178	Let me first say that of course I speak only on behalf of the Right. The right and centre parties agree on both generalist municipalities, framework management and – at all – the main principles set out in this Communication. What was our starting point when we were going to deal with this message was that if the government had really – I kept saying – followed up the ambitions expressed by the Council of State Navarsete, among others. Of course, on KS’s municipal days and elsewhere, that a real message should now be given to move the borders, which changed the relationship between the state and the municipality, we would spend much more time going into concrete proposals. Then also the answer to the representative Aksel Hagen is that what we have done, and what we are doing, is to make our policy visible almost every month in Stortinget by promoting representative proposals that address concrete issues that affect the relationship between state and municipality. We had a broad proposal a few years ago about local democracy versus the state – both about County discretion, about ownership, about land management, etc. We have recently discussed in this Chamber a proposal for an independent dispute resolution body between the State and the municipality, and we have other examples of proposals showing the Right-wing direction and the Right-wing policy. What will be the conclusion of this debate is that most people agree on the main principles of governance and the relationship between state and municipality. What's the result of a potential new government formation is too early to advance, but what's a pretty common principle in this house is that the large majority always have the majority. Thus, one has to assume that in the cases where all parties agree, except one, one must at least expect it to be a little bit to get an impact on the fundamental revolutionary principles of the relationship between the state and the municipality. We are going to discuss, the Right and the Advance Party, and we are going to have discussions with the Christian People's Party and the Left as well. We're looking forward to it. It will be exciting – probably as exciting as when Navarsete negotiated with Stoltenberg and Halvorsen. It has been shown that they have got a part – but now they have run out of ideas, and so there was a big message without any concrete content.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1191	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1205	It is a unanimous opinion of the Committee on this matter. Bulgaria and Romania became EU members on 1 January 2007 and EEA members in August 2007. Norway then introduced transitional arrangements for immigrants from Bulgaria and Romania. Transitional arrangements mean that there is a requirement for a residence permit for work, including salary-level requirements, which ensures that employees are paid and employed in an orderly manner. The transitional arrangements for workers from Bulgaria and Romania only applied for two years, from 1 January 2007, with the possibility of a further three years extension. The Government continued the transitional arrangements for three years from 2009. It follows from the EEA Enlargement Agreement that Norway may only extend the arrangements after 2011 unless reference can be made to ‘serious disturbances in the labour market’. The Committee notes that Norway does not have serious disturbances on the labour market to justify a specific extension of these transitional arrangements and therefore supports the legislative proposal. This bill proposes the abolition of the transitional arrangements for workers in Bulgaria and Romania and the law that we do not need when the transitional arrangements are removed. The Committee would point out a manifest error in the legislative decision itself, as only the title of the legislative proposal is reproduced there, and has therefore proposed that you be replaced by the following: ‘Law 24 June 1988 No 64 on the admission of non-residents to the Kingdom and their residence here shall be repealed.» [[Law on Foreign Affairs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1221	The present legislative proposal repeals the transitional arrangements for workers from Bulgaria and Romania and gives workers from these countries equal access to the Norwegian labour market with other EEA citizens. The right to move and reside freely in the EEA territory belongs to the core areas of the EEA Agreement. In view of the balance of the national labour market, Norway introduced transitional arrangements for immigrants from Bulgaria and Romania when they became EEA members on 1 August 2007. The transitional arrangements constituted a requirement for a residence permit for work and for Norwegian salary levels. Experience shows that this has worked. The transitional arrangements do not seem to have slowed immigration, and Norwegian employers have largely succeeded in recruiting the labour force. Labour immigration from Bulgaria and Romania is still moderate. In 2011, 624 Bulgarians and 1 109 Romanians migrated, and as of 1 January 2012, about 2 600 Bulgarians and 5,700 Romanians lived in Norway. Most of the migrant workers under the transitional arrangements have received a residence permit relatively quickly when they have received a job offer with Norwegian conditions. There is little reason to believe that the abolition of the transitional arrangements will bring about major changes in the extent of labour immigration from these countries. Bulgarians and Romanians do not differ significantly from nationals of other Eastern European EEA countries in terms of employment rates and unemployment. Relatively few Bulgarians and Romanians are employed in construction, while many jobs in health and social services, education and service activities. Rumens are relatively strongly represented in industry. The first quarter of this year the registered unemployment rate was 6.6 pst. for Bulgarians and 4.6 pst. for Romanians. In comparison, it's 8.3 pst. for Poles. Unemployment in Norway is low, and employment is high compared to other countries — including in a historical perspective. There are currently no signs of serious disruptions in the labour market in general or in the sub-markets, and therefore no grounds for not repealing the transitional provisions. Labour immigration is a good thing for both individuals and for society. It allows employers to recruit workers across national borders and contributes to a more efficient labour market and increased value creation. I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal to repeal the transitional arrangements for Bulgaria and Romania and that there is full agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1238	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President will note that the proposal for technical correction of the decision referred to by the Advocate General will be used as a basis for voting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1254	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1263	Today, we are dealing with three legislative changes, in the Road Law and the Road Traffic Act. I am sure that the changes to the second paragraph of Section 27 of the Road Traffic Act have received the utmost attention, so I will concentrate mainly on it. The background to this legislative amendment is the high concentrations of suspended particulate matter and in particular NO2 in Bergen last winter and in other major cities. There was a special weather situation, called inversion, that caused significant health damage to people, especially to people with respiratory problems and diseases. In brief: in this case, municipalities and counties are provided with a tool anchored in the legislation to ensure and protect the population against particularly high pollution, when limit values for particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide, NO2, are exceeded. Under the pollution laws and regulations governing these obligations, owners of installations contributing to a significant hazard are required to take action. The problem has been that the tool has been missing. Road authorities have been able to use Section 7 of the Road Traffic Act, namely to close the road, but it is a rather drastic measure. In this case, the possibility of setting up immediate measures related to the tolling system in the individual cities where this exists is thus granted on its own initiative. This is done by extending Section 27 of the Road Act with a new second paragraph, so that we can increase the fares for a period of time. The Committee has noted that the vast majority of the hearing bodies have given a positive opinion on the legislative changes. There is a large majority in the Committee which is behind the position, subject to the fact that such a measure cannot be implemented without the existence and wish to do so of local and regional decisions. It's important. The majority are concerned that an application for the introduction of such a measure should also be accompanied by a plan for the readjustment of the collective offer in order to ensure a satisfactory availability for the public. We are also aware that the measure could lead to loss of income and to change the assumptions for the toll packages – or the package in question – and that in that case a separate case on the assumptions for the system in question must be addressed. We're positive with that. The majority also point out that there are today technical assumptions that make it possible to be even more accurate in the management of polluting traffic by being able to burden those who pollute the most, hardest, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle. The majority have therefore asked for an assessment of the possibility of further environmental differentiation and for the possibility of introducing mandatory toll rings in all vehicles. The latter will also dramatically reduce the collection costs of toll companies, as there are large costs associated with video image invoicing for those who do not have a chip. In this way, you also get more money for what you really would have done, to build more roads and expand public transport. For the sake of order: the majority of the committee agrees with the changes in the heading of the Code and with the adjustments in § 22a, 36(3). 6 and Section 36(b), third paragraph of the Road Traffic Act. I assume that the Progress Party will explain in particular its views on those points. So far the majority of the committee. From the Right we have pointed out that the toll system in individual cities is there because they wanted it locally. It is precisely this which, at the request of the same cities, makes it possible to introduce measures, which we are talking about today. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary to establish that the level of tariffs during periods of particularly high pollution must also be at the city’s request and request. It surprises me a little that the majority with whom we otherwise stand does not support us in this, because if you do not, you will not have an application for action – if you create uncertainty about this. I therefore put forward this proposal – that is what it is done. And it's actually still possible to join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1286	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1289	This tab provides a new tool for urban areas with toll collection that can be used for periods of high air pollution. The system can be implemented without the need for a proposal for the Storting, and so it is a system that can be put in place quickly to bring down the pollution from car traffic when it is necessary to take care of people's health. Increases in toll rates shall be limited to periods of high air pollution. It's not good with high air pollution, but it's very good that we now get a new tool that can be used for periods when it's extra bad. However, overall exposure over time is a significantly higher public health problem than short-term isolated exposure of high air pollution, and it is therefore important that local authorities also actively work to ensure that local pollution does not exceed the levels in the regulations. Road traffic emissions are a major source of pollution and poor air quality in cities and agglomerations, and in the largest cities, road traffic pollution is higher than the average in the country. The most important substances affecting local air quality are particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. Thus, there is a need for quick action when pollution is too high, as this change in road laws opens up, and with the increase in traffic in urban areas, it is not least necessary that municipal and county authorities also have the means to keep pollution permanently low. They can do this, among other things. achieve through good land and transport planning, increased bets on public transport, reduced speed limits, road washing and heavy-duty tyres. More restrictive measures may be a bid price or a fixed toll system with higher rushtime rates. The proposed changes in road laws and road traffic laws have been on a wide loop. Of the 44 hearing agencies that have responded, there is considerable support for the bill, but more people point out that there is also a need for more permanent tools than the proposed law. Individual hearing aids, including: Hordaland County Municipality, Bergen Municipality and Norway’s Automobile Association, point out that the effect of the measure will be highest if the reduction in traffic comes from the most polluting vehicles. These suggest that both the time of passage and the environmental characteristics of the vehicle should be assessed on the basis of traffic-regulating charges. To this end, it is worth noting that a broad majority, all parties outside the Progress Party, pointed out in the Committee's comments that the scheme could have been additional environmental rights if the tariff differentiation had had an environmental element and an alignment that burdened more heavily on those who value the most. In this context, the same majority view their draft national transport plan and their input into the possibility of introducing a mandatory piece into all vehicles. The majority would like such an extension as soon as possible and would like to have a closer assessment of the possibility of additional environmental differentiation of the tariff system. It is no big surprise that the Progress Party is opposed to this amendment. However, their Committee notes that they have at least partly understood what the change in the law means when «These members», i.e. the Progress Party of its members in the Committee on Transport and Communications, «prove that the increase in the toll charge is thus only regarded as an revenue for the toll companies and as an additional tax for the drivers». There is an additional tax on the caristics that is running when there is very poor and harmful air quality in cities. But no, toll companies won't get any more income, because it's so expensive to run when the air is bad that luckily few people will do it – and that's the whole point of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1310	Norwegian drivers pay far more annually in car and fuel taxes than the country uses on the road network. The solution to today’s problems is not to send the bill down the system to the drivers, but to implement measures that will work much better than increased taxes on the drivers. Only in 2012 will the drivers pay around 55 billion. D in car-related charges, while the appropriations for the State Road Service are 16.3 billion. kr – ergo pays the drivers by a rough estimate three times more in car-related charges than what we build roads for. There are virtually no limits to creativity as to what these taxes from the drivers are going to pay. But will there be less particulate matter, noise and emissions by opening up to increase local toll tariffs for shorter or longer periods? As we see from the bill, road traffic is a source of pollution. The proposal is justified by our public health challenges related to particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide emissions. But the question is whether there are increased taxes that are the right tool, and not least whether they have the greatest impact on the environment. In this way, I would like to remind Stortinget that it was the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that changed the charging system in 2007 to encourage people to buy diesel cars, with high emissions of nitrogen dioxide. The rationale for this at the time was CO2 — slightly less emissions from diesel cars than from petrol cars. Already at that time, the Asthma and Allergy Alliance warned against the fiscal favouring of diesel cars as overfocusing on CO2 would have consequences for public health. The result was a policy that suggests that most new cars in Norway today are diesel cars. That's how it works when faith is stronger than reason. When we know that diesel cars emit 30 times more nitrogen dioxide than petrol cars, most people understand what derailment has taken place from this government. The most important thing we can do in Norway to reduce emissions from traffic is not to increase taxes on cars, but to facilitate the replacement of the car park to a modern car park that emits much less than yesterday’s cars. But then it has to be done precisely and quickly. A statistics from the Asthma and Allergy Association show, for example: a hybrid car based on petrol and electricity emits four to five times less than a petrol car and, compared to a diesel car, the diesel car emits 125 times more nitrogen dioxide. The state does not have a very bad economy and should have contributed to lowering the one-off charge, facilitating hybrids and operating modes that generate much less emissions than today. Unfortunately, we see that the only thing this government has been able to think is as far away from the environment of reality as possible. The only thing this government is really concerned about is more and more tax access. Another example – since the emissions from diesel cars are quite a problem – could be the introduction of the GTL. But this has become impossible since the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's imposed a mineral oil levy on synthetic GTL diesel produced from natural gas. Once again, unfortunately, we have to find out that it is not the environment or the emissions that are most important, but there are more and more revenues to the country. The proposal we are dealing with today is so nicely inserted into the sequence. It is very clear from the Council of State's response to the use of revenue for such a collection that: ‘there are no indications that revenue will be used on environmental measures to improve air quality’. There is a lack of commitment by the state on safe, environmental roads that has led us into the situation we are in. The remedy is increased taxes and taxes for the drivers, while the answer that the world of reality really requires is effective, environmental roads and stimulating technological solutions that have far less emissions than the fleet we have today. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1338	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1341	The case-speaker has done quite well for the view of the majority, but let me still take a few items for myself. One is that the many hearing bodies that have been involved in this matter are in favour of this. So while the Progress Party is very opposed, people are not the most opposed. It's often a theme. The representative of Fredriksen is concerned with other measures that could be beneficial, such as the reduction of the single entry fee for hybrid and electric cars, etc. That's exactly what the government has done – one has reduced the fees, so it's cheaper and more environmentally friendly to drive. But the issue is, in addition, that we are now strengthening the ability of local politicians themselves to do things that work. This is where the Progress Party does not want their local politicians to have a tool to determine how they want to control them locally. We're only allowed to take note of that. But that's what we're talking about. One must not talk away in diesel and asphalt etc. if you do not want to join an action that can be specified locally. It was the starting point of the case-speaker, namely that at the sole wish – at municipalities and at the sole wish – one can do this. What's nice about this is that whoever's wearing the shoe is given the opportunity to decide if you want to go in with measures. In cities like Bergen and Stavanger know that this is necessary at certain times of the year anyway. Then the pollution is so big that people have to stay inside. This means in practice that the Progress Party believes that asthmatics and others can only stay in the house when we are going to drive a car. That's the solution to the problem from their side. I hope that people who follow health-related issues, take note, because I perceive that when it comes to hospitals and rehabilitation and things like that, the Progress Party is very busy with it, but in this case is not busy with preventive measures, so that people don't end up in hospitals or in rehabilitation. I don't want to let the case spokesman go completely free here either. He has a private arrangement that I think is talking a little bit away from the local action. The Christian People's Party is also partly involved in this. What kind of danger is there with this? Income may be lost in the bombardment, and this is not a rush-time charge, etc. One tries, in my opinion, to invert the local game space that the bill adds. Then it's a fun thing. Strong air pollution is not a ‘wild state’, says Right and Christian People’s Party. One might think about it a little bit: what is a "wild state"? No, it probably isn't, but if you run Bergen City and it pop up with parking spaces in the middle of the city, so that it should get the most possible cars into the city, it's a "wild state". But the consequence isn't "a wild state," according to Right. I thought that when politicians adopted something like that, they also had to be aware of the consequences of such a freed-up parking policy for air pollution. Then there is a 'wild state' even when the Right is free to pull car traffic to the cities. I just want to end with what many people have said, namely that this proposal can be improved. It can be improved through national transport plans to discuss AutoPASS chips, which will make this more reasonable, and it can be improved by direct targeting of environmental measures in later proposals. But now we start. We give local politicians the opportunity to control and ensure that people do not suffer health from an excessive traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1358	This is an environmental and climate issue that I think is very important that we get there. It is a legislative proposal that provides more instruments to reduce pollution in urban areas when necessary to take account of public health. Emissions from road traffic are a significant source of pollution. We can sometimes look out of the windows here and see it in the city here. But we also know from Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim that there are challenges at times of the year. It is important to be able to take action quickly when necessary. Most of the hearing bodies, as the rapporteur has explained, are in favour of such a proposal and believe that it is positive that local authorities can have this opportunity to use existing tolling systems as a means of reducing road traffic during periods of high air pollution. I also want to add briefly that we also support the other proposals contained in these changes to the Road Traffic Act, and conclude that we believe it is right that we now start a job to ensure the health of people in the big cities too in view of traffic growth. We will discuss this later in the context of both climate reconciliation and the national transport plan. Then we have to start somewhere, and now we're starting to make these changes, which give municipalities and county councils more tools to ensure themselves against acute air pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1369	The case spokesperson has done well for the cause, and also for the view of the plurality. This is to use existing toll systems as a means of reducing road traffic during periods of high air pollution, and I am pleased that there are so many of the hearings that are positive to this particular measure. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that the Progress Party is opposed to this. I have respect for the view of the Progress Party on the toll system in general, but that one however well to go against such a case, I thought I was very special. It seems that being a toll is becoming more important than anything else for the Progress Party. Here is the health professional argument that should go ahead. In a situation where the air is such that, for reasons of health, we cannot go out, I think politicians have to use the tools that are available. Then I want to tell the representative Fredriksen that yes, that's quite right, the asthmatics were very little satisfied with the conversion that the government made to the taxes on diesel cars in 2006 and 2007. But they'll be all the more happy with the government that they're presenting here today, and that's why it's all the more important to support it. I'll also briefly mention two more things. The only thing is what goes on on a mandatory piece. This is one of the measures we need to look at, both to make the toll systems generally more efficient, to use them more efficiently, and to use them smarter in the future. That is why I particularly challenge the Council of State on precisely this with a mandatory piece in all cars. How is the status of that work? So to the representative of Langeland, who takes up two things in his post, and he merges the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party work together well, but when it comes to the question of toll risk, the Right Party is all about that remark in the vote. The Christian People's Party and the Right, on the other hand, agree, is to conclude that this is not a rush-time charge. The Christian People's Party is for a running-time fee, we have nothing against it, but that's not what this is about. It's about a system to solve the air problems. It is not a rush-time charge in itself that is to be resolved; there is more queue-related issues that a rush-time charge should solve, the efficiency of traffic. There are health reasons for this. It seemed to me that it was time to find out – just the difference in the amount of the alcohol duty and what we adopted today. That is why I had hoped that there was a mass increase that had supported the government's proposal in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1380	The background to the bill is the problems of sudden, high air pollution in the major cities of Norway in the last few years, as in Oslo and Bergen in the winter of 2010. Air pollution measurement in the three largest cities in the period 2004–2011 shows that Oslo and Bergen have challenges associated with high levels of nitrogen dioxide, while Trondheim has problems with high levels of particulate matter. High air pollution is a problem for people's health. Research has shown that there is a link between exposure of high air pollution and mortality and diseases. However, total exposure over time is a significantly higher public health problem than short-term isolated exposure of high air pollution. The experience of the largest cities in Norway in recent years shows that there is a need for both a permanent tool to reduce pollution to a permanent regulatory level and a temporary tool that can be used quickly to prevent high levels of pollution. In order to overcome the pollution caused by car traffic, local authorities now have permanent means of action, including: land and transport planning, investments in public transport, cow pricing, a fixed toll system with higher rush time rates, heavy-duty tyres and road-washing. It is important that municipalities work actively to keep pollution at a prescribed level, and that immediate action to prevent traffic is not required. However, when pollution is a fact, cities today have the possibility of traffic regulation measures under Section 7 of the Road Traffic Act, such as: total or partial closure of traffic, pair/odd running, etc. In addition to these, the phenomenon in the present proposal will be applicable and can be used instead of or in addition to other traffic regulation measures. The advantage is that the higher rates can be set quickly, which will give the road users who are able to do so an incentive to refrain from running or choosing alternative means of transport. At the same time, the road may be kept open for traffic, so that those with an absolute need to run can still do so. As with traffic-restrictive measures, it is important that road users be informed of the increase in tariffs as early as possible and that collective provision is strengthened during the period of use of the measure. Toll collection experience in the larger cities has shown that pricing combined with public transport has an impact on traffic volumes on the road network. The decision to decide whether or not to use the instrument has been added to the municipality and county municipality. The Ministry's decision will be a pure determination of the tariff level following a scheme submitted by municipal authorities. There will be a clear-cut scheme, where the whole initiative and all its content come from the municipality/municipality. In a high-air pollution situation, it is up to the individual city to assess the action to be taken in line with the pollution regulation on liability and obligation to take action. I have noticed that the majority in the committee says that the instrument could be additional environmental law if the tariff differentiation had an environmental element and a device that burdened the most impoverished, harshest, on the principle that the polluter pays. The provision of tariff systems after pollution from the various vehicles requires investment in technical solutions in toll systems. Toll collection is not done in urban areas today. I find it natural that such investments should be made in the context of a permanent change in the fare system in each urban area if necessary. The possibility of using a more environmentally-differentiated tariff system on a permanent basis is facilitated by the Code of Cooling. Then I have to say that I appreciate the rapid treatment and broad support that the Committee has given to this proposal. So with the decision today, cities have yet another tool, they can anticipate it and, if necessary, put it in place already in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1399	In a known style from this government, people and authorities are allowed to take both burden and bill locally. The long-term and effective instruments are central to the state. The experience from Bergen, which is one of the examples that has led to this change in law, is that there is an increased supply in public transport as a means of getting people to use something other than a car in their passenger transport. It is the State that is in the framework of public transport. We have asked questions through proceedings and received answers from the Council of State. However, I ask again: why will the government and the Ministry of Transport not consider the increased use of state purchasing of public transport in the few cities, in the very few cases in a year that we are talking about, and which is actually the background to this change in law? Why do you not want to increase the number of busses, and why does the government not want to take this bill, which will give you a better collective offer during periods when extra effort is needed in the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1404	For me, it has been important in this matter to put in place an additional tool in addition to the existing ones, in order for the municipalities to have different measures to choose from which they can set in motion quickly. Today it is the county councils that manage public transport in each area. The state should, if they are red-green, make it look like it is now, more strongly into the collective offering with support or purchase – whether we call it one or the other – of a different kind. It is a proposal in the national transport plan and will be followed up by us. I saw absolutely no need to go rounds for such acute measures as this and start counting how much faith, how much the state would collect, etc. It's getting the law in place that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1409	It is not that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have tried to talk away from the fact that this is an action that gives local politicians a new tool, as Langeland claims. Rather, on the contrary – I point out that as long as Langeland and the government parties will not be able to give the municipalities the right to set the tariffs, Langeland and the government parties will actually deprive them of local influence. So my question about this topic goes to the Council of State: how does the Council of State assess the possibility that this type of tool will not be applied for, even if it is necessary, when you do not know what tariffs the State can impose on them in the next round, because it is the state that is responsible for assessing the level of tariffs, not the municipalities, as it is in other toll cases? This is the state overarching of local initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1414	Let me first say that I am very pleased with the broad support that this proposal has received, and I am pleased with the prompt treatment. When the cities in question now have an active tool for the coming winter if it should be the case, the Ministry of Transport will not sit and pull a bet out of a hat. The level of tariffs will, of course, be clarified in close dialogue with the urban area to which this may apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1419	In its article, the Council of State says that the majority would like to have the possibilities for an additional environmental differentiation of the tariff system. The majority, consisting of the government party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, point to this by getting a mandatory piece in all passenger cars. We know that once the professionals have now submitted their proposal to the NTP, this is being advanced as an important part, and it is important that the distribution work is now under way. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: What is the status of this work, and what does the Council of State think about a mandatory piece? Can the State Council also say something about progress in work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1424	The introduction of a mandatory piece for all vehicles could both facilitate the collection of tolls by road users and reduce their operating costs for toll companies. In addition, it can be opened to allow toll collection in cities to be differentiated from the impurity of the individual vehicle. An extension of such a requirement to apply to all vehicles requires that we have thought through and worked through impacts on privacy, and that there are satisfactory alternatives to track-free solutions. We're working on this. The work on technical solutions takes place in the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the Directorate of Roads, the Ministry of Innovation, Administration and the Church, and the Data Protection Department. The status of mandatory piece for heavy goods vehicles is that there is a proposal for a change of law out of the loop, with a deadline of 15 June this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1433	The party colleague of the Council of State, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, commends this proposal and believes that the environment is being protected in a very good way. At the same time, we see that the Council of State, in the form of letters, responds to the fact that there are no indications that revenue will be used on environmental measures to improve air quality. If the environment were the most important, wouldn't it actually be natural to give priority to the environment and air quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1438	Priority is given to the environment and air quality. Of course, we could make another choice. We could do it the way Fredriksen here suggests: we could let winter and our walk, with a different kind of arrangement, to look at how we could get this in practice. Instead, we chose to put in place a law that is operational from the coming winter. I would like to repeat one more time: I am very pleased with the broad majority that is behind this. In conjunction with future roof ceilings, it will be possible to provide for an environmental element. I have not registered that it is the goal of the Progress Party's admissions to this proposal so far, but it is possible that I am wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1443	It sounds great and nice when the Council of State comes up with the nice words that the principle is that the polluter is going to pay. Now, the drivers pay 50 to 60 billion. kr per year and receives less than 20 billion. kr back for road use, and if you look at investments, it's beyond 5 billion. kr. My challenge to the Council of State on this proposal is: Oslo or Bergen had done what the council wants them to do, namely stop driving a car, who would finance the bus and collective offer in this city, or in Bergen or in other cities for that matter, when you have a government that is constantly trying to get money out of people and get funded road construction and collective services with tolls? Who's going to pay, councillor? Is it not soon that the state takes responsibility, provides a proper collective offer and also finances it, instead of skinning Norwegian drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1450	I can't do that when it comes to the Progress Party's calculation: I'd like to add a few more elements, for example. all the hospital beds that also cost something, as a result of traffic damage. When it comes to the proposal itself, my point is to be able to arrange for a single measure more in line with the choices that can be made locally in individual cases of too high pollution. But it's the permanent measures that apply, and I want to welcome the Progress Party to the team to help reduce pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1458	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1463	I know that there are many in this room who are happy in some Schwarzenegger, or Terminator, and especially the fight he has fought for the environment around, and perhaps especially in the United States. It's a little bit interesting to see what some states in the United States are doing. Well, they've actually banned diesel cars in the cities. In Norway, we've done the opposite with the red-green government, which says they're concerned about the environment. We have reduced taxes on diesel cars and increased them on petrol cars, which emit less local pollution and which would be better for the local environment. Then the government has to assume that the consequence of the policy is that more people buy diesel cars, and there is more local pollution. It's actually a little bad to say that, but the government has to take on the fact that their own policies have not worked. We've got more local pollution. When I hear the representative from Langeland who says that this gives local politicians new opportunities, the same state stands at the head – with the Minister of Transport – and threatens with a rush-time charge and other charges in the form of letters: if you don't do as we say, we will come and take you and make sure you don't get any reward and other means, which will make it possible for you to get a better collective offer in the municipalities and in the big cities. When the President-in-Office, Halleraker, says that the bomb package is wanted locally, I don't know a lot of people locally who think it's okay with tolls, or bomb packages, for that matter. But they're exposed to a state extortion that we've seen in many cases: either you do as we say, or you get nothing. We have registered some places – among others. E8 and elsewhere in the country – where the Council of State has been out saying that you are not doing as we say, we take from you the money we have put aside in proposals for a national transport plan. So Rommetveit, the spokesperson of the Workers' Party, says that these are useful and new instruments. I don't think there's anything useful in this at all, I. I think it's bad tools, because what we could actually do – the good tools – was to do something about the fuel you're running on, for example. instead of running on diesel, could run on GTL. This means removing the mineral oil charge on a product that is not mineral oil. This would greatly reduce emissions in cities. Or maybe you should have made sure that people bought the cars that emit the least local pollution. There are actions that work. But there are measures that make the state get a little less money. These measures are only ‘discipline measures’, which provide more revenue to the country and less return to the people most. So I hope that people support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1476	In a NRK debate that I was in with the representative Hoksrud a while ago, he claimed that the Progress Party was very concerned with a more climate-friendly transport policy. But when it comes to the matter, as in today's debate, we see very little trace of it, either in the post to Frederiksen or to Hoksrud. And that's what characterizes the Progress Party: When they have the opportunity to actually participate in substantive decisions, they never make up. The only answer, mostly, is more roadway, a lot of roadway, and a policy that the government already partially implements. This is because the government has made changes to the charging scheme to make people drive more environmentally friendly cars, including: by reducing the one-off charge. This has led to good results. In 2011, the average emissions from newly registered passenger cars in Norway were 134 g/km. So this is 7 g less than 2010. The average CO2 emissions have been reduced by 43 g/km in the last five years. And Norway is the leading electric car country in the world. Furthermore, the Norwegian Asthma and Allergi Associations, which the representative Fredriksen printed to his chest, support the proposal to introduce increased toll tariffs in the event of a risk of high air pollution. That is why I have some questions for the representative, Fredriksen. Question one: Does the representative acknowledge, and the Progress Party, that air pollution from the Norwegian car park has actually fallen as a result of the change the government has made? Question two: What is the answer to the Asthma and Allergy Alliance's question that the party does not choose to support the proposal that we are dealing with today? And three questions: the policy of the Progress Party, which will lead to the removal of tolls, the massive development of roads – it must be environmentally appropriate – and massive changes in charging policies, will lead to a dramatic increase in road traffic, especially in large cities. How does this harmonize with the claims of the Progress Party that they are also concerned with more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1494	Previous speakers: Safe and environmentally friendly roads and safe and environmentally friendly cars cause fewer damage and fewer ills. And then the representative Langeland has also received an answer. It's true, as many people have said, that there is a broad majority in the Biggest in this case. It is in all toll cases, a broad majority, where the Progress Party is not involved – not even in this case – because, in the opinion of the Progress Party, tolls are a bad instrument in all respects. There are some situations, in a few big cities, a few times a year, in special weather conditions, which means that we are now getting extended access to print out more local toll costs on the car lists. At the same time, it is also necessary to point out that this can actually be a first opening for some kind of cutting-off of an additional rush-time charge. In this case, there is a focus on measures that may apply where there is a risk of exceeding limit values, and the very few times it has been found to be the case. But the permanent measures, the active means, that will work in all the big cities that have traffic accumulation, that will work all year round, no matter what the weather, it's actually the state that's left over, primarily by building a safe and environmentally friendly road network. It's the state that has the means to get us a newer, safer and more environmentally friendly car park, and not least, what I was in the exchange of lines, the state that has measures to buy public transport, i.e. passenger transport, in the big cities. The special relationship is that it was the measure that worked when there was a crisis in Bergen. It was the road and the bus that saved the passenger transport. But it is a bill, and the Progress Party believes that the state should be involved. In this context, as I have said several times in this Chamber – and unfortunately have to repeat many more times, I think – there is a division between the big cities, where Oslo is given special treatment, and the rest of the largest cities get very little in terms of the state purchase of just passenger transport. The call is still for the government and the Council of State to take a closer look at and ensure that that division is removed. This means that we will have an increased and improved collective provision in the other major cities, and it will also provide a permanent impact on car traffic, as well as a permanent reduction in emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1507	When the representative of the Bjørnflaten refers to the Asthma and Allergy League, she might want to not only tell half the truth, but bring everything with her. For the Asthma and Allergy Association also said at the hearing of the Transport Committee that it was important that they be given permanent measures that provide a lower level of pollution throughout the year. Acute measures will not contribute to lower annual resources. It's also important to bring it with you. I think it is quite funny when the representative challenges me on what the solutions of the Progress Party are. Well, our solutions are very clear and clear. It's about reducing taxes, it's about using new technologies, it's about looking at other fuels, it's about reducing the age of the car park, thereby reducing the emissions from the car park. Not least, it also means that we want to strengthen public transport. But we actually believe that it is a state responsibility to strengthen public transport as well. That is why we have proposed in our alternative state budgets and in our national transport plans that we should strengthen collective provision, both on the road and on the rail. There are actions that work. I want to ask: what was the measure that actually reduced car traffic most through Oslo? Was it the toll, were there increased tolls, or were there other restrictive measures? No, the year when car traffic decreased most was after the financial crisis. It was the measure that made sure that traffic was reduced most through Oslo – and the average in Oslo. It shows that the measures that the majority here are so concerned about should not work, because most people who drive a car are driving because they have to drive a car – not because they think it is fun. People don't line up from Asker and get in here because they think it's nice to be in line. They do it because they depend on using the car – they have to use the car. Langeland says that most people are positive about this. Not most people are asked. There are a few very few — some organisations and some others — and it is mostly those who talk loud. If you talk to most people, most people think this is a really bad move. So I feel at least that Langeland's jubilation that this is what most people want is far from what the common people say -- at least not the people I meet. So the whole point is that this is a little bit of a blow in the air. You have to try to show action and say that now you have to do something about local emissions. But then, as I said, one should do something about the charging system – as Terminator Schwarzenegger has done – to work with local emissions, and not be so busy with the other. I think that's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1518	It is amazing to hear the representative of the Bjørnflaten, who clearly believes that driving and late termination of traffic improves the environment and reduces emissions. I guess all the research suggests the opposite. Environmentally good roads do not only prevent damage to cars and people and kill them in traffic. In fact, it also reduces emissions. I do not know if the representative has heard and understood that it was the Workers' Party that got into a tax regime that made it so that by far most cars today go on diesel. When we know that a diesel car – rather than a modern electric, hybrid or petrol car – emits 125 times as much nitrogen dioxide and NOx, you should be able to take over and understand that it's actually a connection. It could have been possible not to charge a mineral oil tax on GTL, which is made from natural gas. But this only clearly indicates that it is not the environment, nor are people with allergies and asthma in focus. It's the tax entrances to the state. That's where it's going to be hollow, it's going to be awfully hollow. The same is true of the Council of State. There is no desire to give leads to the return of the surplus of tolls — in terms of this collection — to environmental measures. No, then I could have finally understood that. But as long as this is only about creating new fiscal taxes, and you don't want to basically take care of the environment, it just makes no sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1532	It is always encouraging to hear the Progress Party discuss environmental policy. It's like we're on each of our planet, or on Mars and Venus at once here in the hall. Then I must say that Fredriksen's claim of where the focus of the government parties is requires a rather sharp comment. Yes, the focus of at least this representative and my party is the three-year-old who must be inside that winter day because there is so much particulate matter out there, because someone else is going to drive a car. That's the focus we need. If we forget about that health focus and wind into too much emissions and automotive technology, we lose some of the most important things in this case. Then I would like the Progress Party to see the relationship that all other parties have seen – that there is an obvious link between this change in the Road Law and the local responsibility of county councils and municipalities for collective provision. For this is not about toll companies getting less money in the short term. It is about facilitating better public transport next week, next year and in 10 years. It is obvious that those who can decide this now — regionally — also need to make a better collective offer. It would have been an advantage if the Progress Party could see the obvious context. Then I actually drew myself to comment on what the representative Hoksrud said about the bombing in the Oslo bomb. I know it pretty well. That annual report we have dealt with in another political body I sit in. Yes, that's true: when there was a financial crisis, the bombings went down. It's not like we're going to want a new financial crisis, but then the politicians in Oslo and Akershus learned that one in four cars passing the Mountain Line every day, really don't have to drive. It's not commercial traffic, it's not business that's going to bring goods and services, it's not people that's going to work. There are people out there driving a car to do something else. They could also take the bus or take the track. It is worrying in a region where the growth of the population must be taken collectively. Then we need solutions other than driving a car and letting out more particulate matter. If one of the five cars on the E18 had more than one in the car, there would be no queue on the E18. There is also another challenge this region faces in traffic management. So better cars don't solve everything. Urban areas should be able to determine this. We could bet on public transport, and that's what we want to focus on – that kids could be out playing in winter too, and that people can take the bus to work. It's that simple. We have created a context in which to say that now these decisions can be taken locally, and the same local politicians can facilitate a better provision of collective services. Sometimes the easiest thing is the right thing. We are not surprised that the Progress Party does not see that context, but it must be pointed out that in Oslo and Akershus the relationship has been seen a long time ago. We're not going to want a new financial crisis, but we realize that collective solutions are the future. It is also the solution in the renegotiated Oslopackack 3, where the Progress Party has chosen to sit on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1547	I'm just going to make a brief comment, because I thought the representative Blackevik was very precise when he said that this applies in a few cities, a few times and in a few serious cases. Just when the situation is so serious, I think most people are very few in that we are forced to use this tool in a few cities, a few times and in a few, serious cases. So it's with amazement I hear what the Progress Party says about what works here. Yes, none of us would recommend a new financial crisis. But I also hear that the representative Hoksrud is enthusiastic about what is happening in other countries. We're certain that the change that the government made on diesel cars was not reasonable. But Hoksrud is calling for a diesel ban – we heard it in his first post. Then is my question to the representative of Hoksrud: is there a diesel ban that is the alternative to supporting the proposal that a large majority are some about? We must get a clear answer to that during this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1554	After the government had submitted the State budget for 2012, the Astma and Allergi Association sent out a press release entitled ‘Seier for Health – Government Takes Over Diesel Pollution’. Fortunately, the Asthma and Allergy Association are not as tame as the Progress Party is clearly, for they have understood what everyone else in this Chamber has understood: the government is concerned about actually bringing down the climate pollution from car traffic. This is why we have put in place schemes that favour new technologies, which have led Norway to the world summit as an electric car. That is why we have made changes to the charging scheme, which has reduced the climate emissions of the car fleet. That is why we have taken a promise to build up the railways, and therefore we are constantly promoting proposals to improve climate pollution from the car park – as we are dealing with today – which will enable cities to introduce increased toll tariffs in the event of a risk of high air pollution. I registered that the representative Fredriksen did not answer one of my questions. He did not respond to whether he actually believed or acknowledged that Norway has reduced its emissions. He also did not respond to what he would answer to the Asthma and Allergy League by not supporting this proposal, for which they themselves have been anxious. But I have also recorded that Schwarzenegger, as the representative Hoksrud was so impressed with, has also been impressed with the results in Norway. When he was in Norway, he boasted very much of the results we have received, precisely in terms of renewing the car park, precisely in terms of reducing climate emissions from the transport sector. So you could say a lot about Terminator, but at least he has a little bit easier for it than the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1563	When outbursts from car traffic cause bad air in cities, it is a task for local authorities and for central authorities to take care of the health of people – in a few cities, a few times, as was said here earlier in the debate. Then I think it's in place that a system is given, so that they can decide this locally. It is in a good spirit with local democracy. Now that we have received toll funding as a main element in this debate, I think we might have heard it for today, then. So when we talk about a toll-funded project on More, I hope that we will consider ourselves finished discussing tolls. We've heard in this room so many times -- I think we can count hundreds of times -- that the Progress Party is against tolls. We know that, we've got it -- we're both in the hall, and we're listening from the outside. There are no new arguments at any time, and the Progress Party is central to even its own local party traps that find it a good solution. So I look forward to perhaps coming to the end of that debate, because then the Progress Party can come back and say when they've changed their mindsight. That's news. There's no news that they're against tolls. We're familiar with that. Now it is hoped that there will be a short-term solution, because it goes against improving the car park in Norway. Then, of course, there is a point that we could eventually get cheaper cars, but tax more on the use of the cars. It would have been in a good spirit, I think. When Hoksrud says that he doesn't know a lot of people who think this is okay, I have to say that if he only talks to the progressive party traps, it may be that the crowd gets smaller and smaller – if we're going to listen to the polls, then. So I'll say to Hoksrud that it might be good to listen to someone else as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1574	Of course, the President has nothing to say about the content of Mr Myraune's speech, but his attempt to shorten the debate is the President's heart's agreement, all the time a total accumulation is invited to a certain celebration later this evening. We still have seven things left on today's map. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1580	At first I think maybe the representative Bjørnflaten should hear a little better after. I said there were many in this room who thought Schwarzenegger was a good man. I have not said that he is, but I realized on the representative Bjørnflaten that she thinks he is doing very well. So to the representative Hareide: I am definitely not for any diesel ban. But I am to reduce the one-off taxes on petrol cars as well. I am to reduce the one-off charge for getting better and more environmentally friendly cars and replacing the old car park. Why should we have one of Europe's oldest car parks in this country? It shouldn't be like that. I think the most important thing is to do something about the one-off fee. It'll really be a revolution. As I said, the ban on diesel is a bad measure, but there are many other good measures: the GTL and other new technologies will be the measures that will really revolutionize here and make a real difference. But I realize that's the old track the government and the other parties are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1589	To the representative of Myraune, it would be an exciting development if the Right could gradually take a different and less one-dimensional view of using so much tolls in financing the infrastructure in Norway. I took the floor to say, with the address of the representative Hareide, that the example of ‘a few cities, a few times’ and extremely difficult and serious cases of very short duration is known. We know that, among other things. from Bergen. I've tried to say in several ways that then the action that works is a bus-based solution where we increase the collective share more than what we normally manage to get out in these places. But then there's a bus that has to be, and it's a bill to pay. So instead of writing out the possibility of more tolls and punishing them, the Progress Party's actions are that we put in more buses – which we still have to do – so that the collective offer becomes more attractive. But then it's a bill. Our goal is for the state to take that bill. In fact, our demand is that the state should take the bill in the same way in other big cities as it actually does far, far on the way already in the capital of Oslo, where we are now. Since Bergen is an example of one of these cities where there is rarely a situation that lies behind the whole of the law in Stortinget, it is worth mentioning the division and repeating it once again from the pulpit of Storting: the state buys public transport, passenger transport, in Oslo for between 600 million. NOK 700 million and SEK 700 million. kr in one year. The mountains get 19 million. kr. There's the problem. There is the challenge: the difference between 600 million. NOK 700 million. DKK in one year and SEK 19 million. kr in one year. So we could get a completely different bus-based public transport system in Bergen if the state distributed its funds a little more evenly. That's what we're looking for, rather than printing more tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1614	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1623	As the president said, it concerns the development of Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrand Tunnel in More and Romesdal. I will explain how the Committee has dealt with the matter and also a little about the matter in its entirety. There is basically a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the construction of these two projects, no one is speaking against them, but there are different solutions in terms of funding. We are now going to build a project on E136 between Dombås and Ålesund, which is the main road to the East from Sunnmøre and parts of Romesdal. Parts of E136 between Ålesund and Åndalsnes are accident-related. The road is narrow and it is subject to slip. I have been and seen for myself what it looks like there and I am glad that we have now come so far that we will realize the project. The committee has noticed that we are now getting a much more traffic-proof road. It'll be brittle. It will improve the availability and scope of commuting, and it will be a much better way for those who transport goods on it. There is, of course, a road that many people use for the transport of goods and services in and out of this region. There will be a curtailment of the road in central places on Sunnmøre and between the Gulf of Vike and Helland in the municipality of the West. It means a lot in terms of building the region closer together. The Committee welcomes the simultaneous construction of Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrand Tunnel. We believe it is sensible resource use and will make construction more efficient. We also see that there has been a link between government funding and tolls. It supports the majority of the Committee. It is built up to a governance framework for Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrandstunnel of 1 230 million. SEK at 2012 price level and a cost framework of 1310 million. kr at 2012 price level. The management framework is divided by 800 million. SEK at Tresfjordbrua and 350 million. kr on the Wågstrandstunnel. The net benefit for the project is estimated at 114 million. kr. The socio-economic benefit of the project is estimated at 0,17. In addition, it is provided that 20 million are used. kr for programme area actions along today’s E136 around Tresfjorden. We're very positive about that. A majority of the Committee of the Red-Green Parties and the Christian People's Party also ask that consideration be given to the need for further action in the programme areas to improve road safety along this route, but it needs to be assessed locally. It is assessed that it may be relevant to 50/50 funding if you wish locally. We see that it has been set up for plant start in the autumn of 2012, the opening of the tunnel is planned by the end of 2014/2015, and the opening of the bridge is planned in the summer of 2015. In addition, I have mentioned what is going on in programme area actions, so I won't say much more about it. However, toll collection will start in 2015 when both projects are open to traffic, and it has been set up for collection for 15 years. We assume that More and Romsdal county councils before plant start take a guarantee decision in line with what is in the proposition. It is then a pleasure for me today to be the case rapporteur and have guests at the gallery. Here are former rapporteurs in the region, it is a rapporteur who has been elected, and many of those in the gallery have been present from 1984 and fought to get this in place. There is no doubt that it is a happy day for them, and the smile is quite wide – it was today early when I met them too. I want to tell you that this is a good job. It shows that you have to stand on, you have to follow up, and when you do, you get to the goal. I think that's very funny today. I am happy on behalf of More and Romsdal, I am happy on behalf of you who live there, I am happy on behalf of us as a country that is able to develop projects and connect the country more closely – as we are doing with this project. Then I recommend what is in the position of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1651	Good and safe infrastructure is something we in the Workers' Party are concerned about. As a government party, we focus on helping to improve and renew the infrastructure around the country. It's a big job. The government has increased the trading pot by 100 billion. kr only during this NTP period. Every time we raise a project, small or large, it helps to make everyday life better for people. Today, the development and financing of Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrand Tunnel at E136 in Møre and Romesdal are to be adopted – an important project for both business and private individuals. Because it's about people's security in everyday life, as the road has been razed and narrow. The wish for a tunnel to secure the road is being adopted today, and we are very pleased about that. It is about saving time, and it is about modern and good solutions that link a larger housing and labour market region. That's something we from the districts are very busy about. The E136 is now reduced by 14 km, and local traffic between the Gulf of Viking Bay and the Highlands is reduced by 19 km. Although we are now getting a longer and safer road in place, there is also an economic side to this that for some people might seem more stressful than for others. It has therefore been important that the Council of State has looked at more gentle solutions in terms of tolls, especially for some areas – I am thinking especially of Tresfjorden and Wagstranda. The response from the Council of State has led to a larger sum of tolls on Tresfjordbrua in front of the Wågstrand tunnel, and the location of the toll stations has been looked at. On 7 December 2011, new guidelines for the introduction of toll ceilings were introduced. I myself have been to a meeting in Tresfjorden and at a public meeting in Wagstranda, which made an impression on me. They have mobilized and kept a pressure on their case. They've shown a broad commitment, and it's quite clear that when people care, they can stand for what they believe in. In such a large and complicated project, it is not always possible to satisfy absolutely all of them. But I have to say that the Council of State has been listening and smooth and found a solution that everyone can live with. E136 between Dombås and Ålesund is the main artery of the East from the south-buttock side and parts of the valley of Rome. The route has an annual traffic of between 1900 and 2600 vehicles, and part of this route is an accident-affected area. A total of 16 accidents have been recorded on the route from 2000 until 2010 – five fatalities and one serious injury. The most frequent accidents have been meeting accidents and outings. With the new 2.8 km long road, security will be better. The development is provided for financed by State resources and tolls. There is local political agreement of 50 pst. toll financing and start-up of the project will already be in the autumn. Both projects will proceed simultaneously, as the flooding will come from a stone to be blasted out of the tunnel. We look forward to the summer of 2015 when these are to be opened. Hopefully there will be a traffic opening already at the end of 2014/2015. Finally, it is worth noting that the Committee's recommendation is promoted by the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right – that is, it is a party that has previously marked that they have their own funding system, which is not included. We're not going to take that discussion. There have been many who have had a high level of involvement in this project: local politicians, individuals, economic operators, etc. I think it is important that we today say a thousand thanks to everyone who has stood for this. I would also like to express my special thanks to the Council of State, who has worked well with the project and has set up several times locally also in this context. Today we can actually avoid eating cake and celebrating that we get Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrand Tunnel in place in 2015. We're looking forward to that. We're excited when this day comes, and we're happy to drive the new route.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1670	I was full of words in the previous case. I'll try to contribute to the meeting resolution by being a little shorter now. E136 between Dombås and Ålesund is the main road to the east from Sunnmøre and parts of Romesdal. Parts of E136 – between Ålesund and Åndalsnes – are accident-affected and subject to gliding. Development will provide road users with a more circular road, better accessibility and better road safety. In addition, the travel distance between central locations on Sunnmøre and between the Gulf of Vike and Hella in the municipality of the West will be considerably shorter. It is good that Tresfjordbrua and the Wågstrandstunnel are built at the same time. It makes sense to use resources and will make plant operations more efficient. It is simply a good FrP policy. We're glad it's being built, but we're rejecting tolls. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. We want to build the mentioned projects with state funding instead of forcing the drivers to buy the road funded by an expensive payoff scheme. In addition to tolls of 625 million. The drivers shall also pay interest of 425 million kroner. NOK 90 million and collection costs. kr. So the drivers are going to have to pay 515 million. NOK to contribute SEK 625 million. kr in project financing! It's expensive, it -- especially in a country where the Prime Minister boasts that the nation is so rich that it's unnecessary to borrow to build a road. The Progress Party will have its own case on the dimensioning of new roads, both on the county road network and on the national road network. When we build new roads, as in this case – in fact also a new European road – there must be a dimensioning that withstands the increase in traffic that we know is coming, and not as now, as with this government, that new roads are being built with traffic under-dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1685	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. And he has shown that speaking time is up to 5 minutes – not necessarily 5 minutes!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1690	Then I'll try not to be worse! It's important to say that this is a great day in the West and the Rauma, yes, actually for the whole Sunnmare and for those who suck for the use of E136. Business, most people, those who depend on road transport, get a new everyday life, and that's a significant point, and this is a significant step on the way to an entirely new E136 between Ålesund and Dombås. The right has registered that this project has been wanted over a long time – the last with a small reference to Hoksrud’s words earlier today – and that there is a great deal of localization about the project and the tolling. There was no need for us here today not to support this. We in the Right have been busy with E136 for a long time. We proposed six years ago that the entire E136 should have been realised as a complete OPS project. Yes, it was actually the first OPS project we proposed as a single project after the three success projects promoted by the Stoltenberg I Government, at the request of the majority of the Committee, and had E136 been adopted as a OPS solution at the time, the road had been completed today. I will leave that discussion behind and today only refer to our comments on the matter, because the most important thing today is that the project is now finally adopted, that people and goods are being transported more quickly, and that mobility will increase and become much better in Sunnmowers. It ensures growth and development in a very important export region in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1701	I want to start by congratulating the King and Queen with the celebration, so my post will also be short! I would also like to congratulate Sunnmøre and More and Romesdal on a road project that they have welled for too long, and which was now in place. It'll be exciting to follow it forward. There's a lot of people who think SV is the opposite. Also in this room there is someone who claims it. But there's actually a lot of ways for which we're very, because we think it's important to build a lot of places in Norway. What we and many of the people here are looking at is that we don't want a lot of motorways in central lines, which lead to more pollution. There we want collective solutions. But in Tresfjord a bridge is absolutely necessary. That's the difference. We need to distinguish between cities and countries when we are engaged in transport policy – and we can. We could hope that someone who is for everything started thinking about priorities, as we try to do. This case also leads to better road safety, we get better road safety, and those who are going to drive get reduced travel time saying – so this is good! I understood on the case spokesman that the offer might already come out on the 20th of this month, and that one might already be able to start in the autumn. The completion of this project is a great promise. Then the multiple has a comment in the setting, and it's that you have to see if you're going to do something more for the areas of the program - walking and cycling paths and stuff. If it's possible to get something more here, we're very interested in it from the big crowd's side. Finally, when it comes to the previous case, I have to say that I cost myself with Myraune's contribution. He was tired of listening to the Progress Party's massaging about toll-based projects. But this is a training you have to endure, because that's the training you're going to continue with when you're going into government with the Progress Party. It's just the raw populists in the Progress Party when it comes to tolls and solutions that work. So I think you just have to keep training, Lars, if you want to join the government!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1716	The President was noticing that the posts should be directed here, either to the gallery or to individual representatives, but the representative Langeland finally made good progress, so he'll get away with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1719	I agree that the representative of Langeland took a good look at it. He began by congratulating Sunnmare, so he said More and Romesdal. This time it's Romsdal who really has reason to celebrate. In line with the good and appropriate comment of the President, I will be very brief. But with such a good project, and such an important project for the Christian People's Party, I must be allowed to speak. Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrandstunnel are very important for the whole region. It is a very good project, and with the decision that is being made today, this project can be clear and ready for use in 2015. I want to say that when we look at this project, there is one thing I think is important when we think ahead of Norwegian transport policy, and we have to learn from it. It is that we are now considering how to organise different toll projects locally, regionally. Had it not been for the idealists who have spent an hour working on this type of project, I do not think we had stood here today and marked the decision with Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrand Tunnel. When we are about to organise just a toll project and other projects in the future, we have to take that with us. My special greeting to the Council of State is that when she looks at this, she takes care of the way one gets to lift up this kind of project. It is precisely those who are sitting in the gallery today, who have been involved in raising this, which means that we can make a good decision today. In those words, I quit and say that the Christian People's Party fully supports the presentation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1730	It is great to be Minister of Transport from the Central Party in a government that prioritises transport. We're using 12 billion today. kr more on transportation than before we took over, we bind the country better together, we reduce distance costs and disadvantages – we build the country. In parts of E136 between Ålesund and Åndalsnes, road users are now given a more circling road, better access and increased safety in traffic – apart from 14 km shorter E136. Between Halland and Vikebygd the road gets 19 km shorter. There's a lot of fjords to run around for someone who wants to get to the West. The Tresfjord is now getting much less traffic. People cross the fjord instead of running around. The majority, which consists of all lots, with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the project being expanded by 50 pst. State funds and 50 pst. tolls. The survey in the national transport plan estimated 500 million, now 615 due to the increase in costs. Many have worked for a long time both for a new bridge and for a safer tunnel. It is very important as the committee leader stressed: it is the local initiatives that allow us to make the means of transport so far. These are the local initiatives that allow us to realize projects by project. If reference can be made back to 1984, the first formal decisions of the local government such as this debt, Rauma and Vestnes, will be taken from April 2009. Then I have to say that I quickly realized that it could be demanding to get a solution that could be referred to as a ‘wide market locally’. For commercial transport, it goes without saying that there are strong driving forces for toll projects on this road, precisely in order to get to a road with much better traffic performance and safety and also a shorter road. For the inhabitants of Wågstrand and along Tresfjorden, I realized that they asked questions that it seemed that they would have toll stations on several points on the road. I would say that it has a constructive approach both from local authorities and from local people else. It really has our will to find a solution. Now the location of the chunk has been cleared, with wide agreement. The possibilities of the resulting discount systems have been clarified. But I find reason to stress that for the stakes themselves, there is still a job. That's because the ultimate bets are set in a collaboration between toll company and road directorate on a case-by-case basis. In these costs – even when bets are involved – we operate with the addition of base 6.5 pst. interest rate. It's no secret that a toll company can achieve a lower percentage. It may be followed for the payment period and for the bets. It will be clarified later. Today, we share with the locals over construction start-up to the cottage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1748	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1751	Yes, everyone is very pleased that there is now a new way. I'm very happy with every single meter of new road we get, but I'm not as happy about how you're going to finance it. My question to the Council of State is: is it not a little special that on this project you should have 425 million. kr in interest expense – that means 6,5 pst. Loan interest rates may be slightly lower — when you lend money to Germany and other countries to less than 2pst.? So that's one third of what you're now going to charge for interest income in this project. Isn't it a little awkward for the Council to impose on the drivers, which depend entirely on the road, to pay such an extra charge? Should not the rate of interest be the same as that of loans to other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1758	This means that the final borrowing costs will be incurred at a later date. It is the toll company that is agreeing here on loans, which I am also deepening more closely in my contribution. So it's like a statement doesn't get any more true if it's repeated multiple times. We've been discussing how we're going to spend our income and expenditure on a government budget. So this is where we have our own guidelines for the state pension fund abroad, and the funds are placed differently – some of them also end up in Germany. But it is not that the government has created a separate loan arrangement for road construction around. It's a solid misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1765	Governments have an explanation problem – and she will be given a full opportunity to solve it now. I'm going to ask very specific questions to the Council of State. 1: Loans Norway to Germany at an interest rate of less than 2 p.m., such as: can be used for road financing? 2: According to the proposal made by the State Council itself in the pen, it appears that the drivers – i.e. toll-payers – have to pay 425 million. kr related to interest. Is that right, or is it wrong? If there's a problem in the proposition, you should fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1774	To question No. 1: That's wrong. So the Storting decided on a government budget on a proposal from the government, including how much we should use for road construction in Norway. Then the means in the petroleum fund are placed according to certain guidelines. Answer to No. 2: There's no need to correct anything in the proposition -- I understand that Nesvik might only have read two or five lines. It is the toll company that concludes the final agreement, and that is why the loan costs arrive at a later date, but at 6.5 pst. interest on land is the cost of 425 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1781	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1786	I'm probably going to use my speaking time – I'm not going down on the opera act. This isn't just a sunbathing or a space valley project. This is a nationally important road project. A very large proportion of the traffic going on this road route — where shorter driving time is now to be found — is exports to Europe. It will generate even more revenue to the nation of Norway through increased taxes on the companies. At the same time, it makes the way safer. There have been too many accidents on this road, including a number of fatal accidents. It is gratifying that this is unanimous, and I repeat, so there is no doubt about it: it is a unanimous big thing that today says yes to this project. So what's the big difference? Well, the big difference is how much car drivers and business are going to have to pay. The Council of State stands and shows that it is the government that grants this money. First of all, the government doesn't grant any money, it's the Stortinge that grants money. It also has to be taken over by the Council of States. In addition, it's a 50/50 solution – 50 pst. tolls and 50 pst. State co-financing. Yes, but that's when it's starting to get weird, when we look at the interest cost and the collection cost. The real sum to be paid by the drivers is not 50 pst. of 1310 million. kr, which is the cost framework. If you base the Council of State's own numbers and base the proposition, with 6.5 pst. interest, the drivers shall not pay 50 pst. of 1310 million. kr, no, they alone have to pay $1140 million. kr. Then this 50/50 solution starts to become relatively strange, especially when this government and the Prime Minister repeatedly talk about moving money from value placement and financial position abroad to capital in Norway, says: Yes, but we have enough money – we don't have to borrow the money. I fully agree with the Prime Minister. The problem is that the Prime Minister is unable to implement this in practice. For practice, we push an even greater part of this bill into business and into the population. It's taking 6.5 pst. interest on the population — and the taxpayers’ already paid money — for this state capital is interest on debt. It's not a well-meaning hand for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1799	It is, as all the other speakers before me have said, a happy day today. I must be allowed to join the introduction to Nesvik – the rest we can discuss – but the truth is that E136 Ålesund–Dombås is one of the country's main export routes. What's happening here today is important for the value creation of one of the country's largest value creation companies. When we know that the values and what we get from the values we create are to be distributed across the country, this is an important day for the whole country. I'm amazed that nothing has happened before, but now we just get to be happy that we're there. As former county and local politicians from More and Romesdal in the 1990s, I know how many years there have been fighting for this road section. I am incredibly happy that today I am allowed to join in and knock through just these two projects. But I should have liked to have seen that today we could also have beaten through the start of an upgrading of the whole route Ålesund-Oppland border, in line with what was signed and a former deposit representative, who was also the head of the Committee on Transport, along with the rest of the Højre Storingsgruppe, suggested as early as 2006, and so also Øyvind Halleraker from the Right previously informed about in his post here today. Now we get to be happy – very happy – for what happens, but we have a job to do. We know where the trails stand across the ground: on the Ørskog mountain and in the Romsdalen – in steep and smooth. We also know that the gateway to Ålesund and to the large port, with its exports from there, is a dangerous, crowded bottleneck with many private downhills on Lerstadwegen, which goes from Breivika to Ålesund. We all here today have a job to do to continue this route, complete the entire route Ålesund-Oppland border.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1817	As a member of the Financial Committee, I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State can stand on the Spokesman's chair and claim that it is wrong that Norway – i.e. the State pension fund abroad – lends away its money, or buys bonds in Germany to 1.8 pst. interest rate. It has actually been confirmed by both the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the Governor of the Central Bank, and we have had consultations on this very matter in the Financial Committee. That's the answer. I see that the Council of State is now asking for the floor, but that is a wrong information. When there's a line change in the Storting, you should be correct and don't try to get away with things that are actually wrong. It is the way to finance Norwegian road projects by borrowing money, preferably from the Municipal Bank – now I do not know this project concretely – but at a much higher interest rate than you are borrowing. In other words, you sell cheaply and buy expensively. It's a bad strategy, a bad use of money, it's not very wise economically, and it's not a responsible economic policy. Yes, we have so much money that we can throw them out of the window, but we don't have to make it as obvious as what we do in such projects. Then I just have a comment to the representative Siri Hov Egg, who spoke of the fact that during the financial crisis there was apparently less driving on the E18. Then it was one in five who did not drive a car, and thus it was confirmed as the red-greens believe that many are driving a car unnecessarily. Yeah, what are people going to do when they drive a car, if they're not going somewhere? Are they running for fun? For example, if you run the children of the nursery, or should you take the bus with the children to the nursery? Why are people driving? Ask the neighbor, ask yourself why you are driving a car. I have not met anyone who sits in a car to drive for fun. That's how you drive a car because it's practical and sensible, you come faster from A to B, and it's something that makes your life better and more pleasant, and that increases your own quality of life. It's not that you can get on a bus or walk from Asker to Oslo instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1826	Let me just first for the sake of order – in case Nesvik has misunderstood – make it quite clear: I assume that it is the Stortinget that decides on the state budget, including what should go for different purposes. I also think it was the way I expressed myself. In a year’s time, the Stortinget is invited to take a separate decision detailing this further. One of them is the decision we are about to make now, which is about Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrand Tunnel. So I can see that Nesvik thinks we're charging 6.5 pst. of these tolls at government interest rates. So what I tried to say in a few words was that we're adding base 6.5 pst. interest on the toll proposals that we are making, but it is the toll companies that are making the final agreement and the final decision there. Here it's already suggesting that it could be at a lower interest rate. It can then be followed again either for the tariff level or for the amortisation time. And then there's an inconsistency between the Progress Party and the rest of the Storting when it's both the size of a government budget and how to use the money. There is also an expression today when the Progress Party has a lot more government resources to use for this project. In this context, the way to place the State pension fund abroad will also be a special issue. It is correct that German bonds were purchased for 1.8 pst. interest rate. But what's not right is that the state has a loan office where a borrower lends funds to the rest of the world to 1 pst, and where one requires 6.5 pst. for example, in the case of: Tresfjord. It's a context where I don't understand everyone as easily. Finally, questions were raised about the size of the programme area and the possibility of introducing even more road safety measures. This is something we'll be looking at in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1840	At one point I very much agree with the Council of State: it is obvious that not everyone has got everything into the matter. Regarding the loan question, no one has claimed that the government has a loan office. But I also think the Council of State should take on the fact that it's actually called the State pension fund abroad. In the case of the State pension fund abroad, which is the country's money, which is collected through either oil income or taxes and taxes, it is the country through which the government bonds are purchased, which can be re-used. An interest rate is then determined on this. So you have that possibility. On the basis of the proposition's numbers -- I'm not saying that's what's going to be the final -- is 6.5 pst. And then you get to hope that you can negotiate this number to be significantly lower. But what's my starting point is that the state should have been on the track and made sure that the entire project had been funded – because it's socio-economically profitable. It causes fewer accidents. That'll give you a shorter travel distance. It gives less emissions. It gives, as I said, better competitiveness. The problem is that, through this financial instrument, the State is involved in withdrawing some of the extra good competitiveness that this would provide, by increasing the costs of the companies involved in transport. We all agree that this is a very good project. I agree with the representative Røbekk Nørve, who says that what should be used for, which the Progress Party has also called for, is to fund the entire project, from Ålesund to Oppland's border. But OPS is not a magic formula. OPS is only one way to finance this. At the same time, tolls are also used here. Yes, the Progress Party uses the money differently. But if the Council of State had read the proposals of the Progress Party for the current year, she would have seen that the use of the Advance Party's money is not so much different from that of the government in terms of resources. But that's quite correct: we spend the money considerably more rationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1853	I thought we were going to have a short debate on this matter – and not at all a debate on the State pension fund abroad. I think it's at the limit whether this falls under this case, to give this company a loan authorisation. It is not such that an OPS project is exclusively a financing arrangement. An OPS project is a project funding solution that is about organising completely different things – which also provides synergies, both in the way you organise tenders, in the way you run them, and in the way you link investment and maintenance costs. This is OPS and it is not toll-dependent. You can well have a OPS solution without toll financing, but with government funding. So to the borrowing interest question: I think the government council answered that question very well. But she could also say – and I think she agrees with me in: I'm pretty sure that intense sunburns are going to be awake enough to get a better interest rate in today's market than 6.5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1862	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1876	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1885	I record that now that we are going to discuss something that is actually very important, there are many of the representatives who leave the hall. What we're going to discuss is very important, is about our kids. We are now considering a proposal for a representative proposing the development of the transport plan of a separate child and that this plan should be included as an integral part of the national transport plan. This proposal is supported by a majority of the Transport and Communications Committee, which consists of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, while the minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. Now, I guess the real discord isn't as big as it sounds. On the contrary, as rapporteur of the case, I am very pleased that there is a strong cross-political consensus that children's challenges and needs in traffic must have a special focus, and that this must be reflected in the national transport plan we are going to adopt in Stortingen next summer. We just disagree if we have to go the way to make the transport plan of our own children first. Focusing on children and transport, on children’s needs and on children’s premises is important. Our kids are the most vulnerable road users, and also the most precious. This is why the Committee took the opportunity to really focus on children and traffic when we carried out consultations in order to understand which actions are important from the children’s perspective. We also did this as part of our process linked to the national transport plan. In the case of children and young people, there is no doubt that traffic training and awareness-raising are important. It is in childhood the basis for what kind of road user you become later in life. Therefore, good work must be done in kindergartens and schools. Traffic training is part of the framework plan for kindergartens, and it is its own learning objectives that deal with traffic in the curricula for primary school. The fact that traffic basic courses become their own choice in high school from the next fall is very good. Many teams work well with training and awareness-raising work aimed at young people, but there is probably no one who would think that it is unfair that we highlight the efforts of Safer Traffic. It is those who contribute to the training of kindergarten and primary school teachers, and it is those who carry out information and influence work on important road safety issues, perhaps especially in the interests of young people. With regard to physical measures on the roads, there is a strong consensus that safe schooling is one of the most important things for our young people. This is about road safety, but it is also important from a health point of view. We have to have a goal that says there's going to be safe school roads with walking and cycling roads in a perimeter of 4 km around our schools because 4 km is the limit of when you get free school kisses. Today, there are many places where parents choose to drive their children to school because they see the school road as dangerous for traffic. It can in itself create road-hazard situations at schools, and there is no positive health benefit. Norwegian kids are getting heavier, and they're getting less and less active. I record that there are often several hours of physical activity in school. It surprises me, therefore, that there is no greater focus on securing school roads, so that the kids can go and ride to school instead of being driven. Maybe it's so that those who come by bus can also be released from a piece of school, so that they have to go the last bit. A little detail I think we should do something very quickly is the following: if the school road is considered to be road-hazardous by the County, the students can still get free school pillows, even if they live closer to 4 km. This school kiss is the municipality that has to pay for, even if the road is a highway or a county road. In this context, there is no incentive for the county or state to ensure road traffic-hazardous school roads. I think we need to put in place the principle that the person who owns the road must also be the one who pays for this school kiss. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Zenter Party, where we propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the protocol, while stressing once again that we have a cross-political agreement to put in place good measures to ensure the interests and safety of young people in traffic, and that we in the government parties will follow this up in the process of National Transport Plan 2014-2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1908	The representative Susanne Bratli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1911	I would like to join the case-speaker Susanne Bratli says: this is a very important matter, it is a very important perspective, and I would like to thank the case-speaker very much for the good work she has done in this matter, because we now have a basis for the next national transport plan that I think is very exciting. A very good job has been done by the trade unions, and everything is in place so that we can both have an exciting debate and an important issue when dealing with the next national transport plan. Then it is all the more important that we manage to have a holistic view of this, and precisely the soft road users, the children's perspective, have been easy to get into the backyard when we look at the health of the transport sector. I also want to extend a special thanks to the Advance Party and the Right, who join the proposal of the Christian People's Party. I'm very happy about that. I just want to give some examples of why this is important. One thing is what the case spokesperson had to say: What is the trend when it comes to children going to school? Well, the trend is that more and more people are running to school. Then the paradox is that going to school becomes more dangerous in itself. It's kind of gotten us crazy in that field. Therefore, we need to look at measures that allow us to reverse the trend that more and more people are going to school. Another example, which is close to this, is traffic training. Saksvoor Susanne Bratli Nemner Safe Traffic. They have proposed that all schools should have their own traffic training plan. I think that's a very good tool. Another example is the reduction in the number of those who ride bicycles among the youngest. It's a disturbing development we're seeing here. In 1998, 14 years ago, it was 17 pst. Of those between the ages of 13 and 17 as bicycles, 17 pst. In 2009, 11 years later, that part was down to 9 pst. It's a significant reduction when you go from 17 pst. to 9 pst. of that age group. In the 18–24 age group, we see a decrease from 7 pst. and down to 4 pst. It shows that we are forced to take greater action to reverse a development that none of us want, but that we see going in the wrong direction. I'm very pleased with the support from the Right and the Advance Party, but I'm very glad that there's a huge amount of stuff that points out the importance of the children's perspective, of the soft road users. So I'm going to record that the government party has a different approach to the proposal itself, but the fact that we're looking at this will still be made when we get the National Transport Plan to Stortinget. Then I just hope that we focus clearly on the soft road users, in the children's perspective. That is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1926	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for a very good proposal. It is therefore a little sad that the Council of State and the Government parties will not take part in the proposal to draw up the transport plan of their own children and ensure that it is also included as part of the national transport plan. When I listened to the representative Bratli, I was almost a little happy, for the most part the representative Bratli brought up, we quite agree. When you agree on everything, it's a pity that you come to different conclusions in the end: the government parties choose not to support the proposal. When the representative Bratli says that she is surprised that there is no more focus on getting better walking and cycling routes, I fully agree with that. But she therefore represents those who govern, those who have every opportunity to do exactly what they want, they have a majority in this room and can do exactly what they want. I believe at least that what is the whole point of putting in place the children's transport plan is to ensure that concrete measures are developed to make everyday life safer for children and young people who travel in traffic, while at the same time making such a plan even better visible what you intend to do in the next ten years for children and young people who travel in traffic. The Progress Party has proposed a number of concrete measures to improve the situation of children and young people travelling on the road. We are doing this by proposing more funding for the development of walking and cycling routes. We also believe that the old Aktion school path, which we had a few years ago, and which some counties still have, is a very good system, which means that you release a lot of money to build multiple times and bike paths, especially on accident-prone and traffic-hazard routes in the municipalities. In fact, we want to put this system back in place with more resources, because it was a very good system and a good interaction between county councils and municipalities. In addition, we know that many accidents occur in school transport, but fortunately not so many serious. When the accident is out and an accident occurs, it often happens because the students have no possibility of sitting or seatbelts. This is, as the Progress Party sees it, very regrettable, and you should have done something about it a long time ago. Fortunately, something is happening now, something is happening, even if it's taken an incredibly long time. In addition, we know that many accidents occur in connection with boarding and disembarkation. So getting more and better hold places will also be a relatively easy and reasonable action to get in place if you want. There are measures that may typically drown in the major debate on roads, rail and other infrastructure when it comes to the big transport debate here in the Chamber next June. In any case, it is often the case that these are losing for all the important, concrete projects. There is some background for us to want to put in place a child’s road safety plan that you can include and get more attention around the debate and work on the national transport plan. I therefore hope that the government parties look at the fact that putting a child’s transport plan in place will be good for road safety and that they will support the proposal in the plan. It is still possible to turn around – time has not expired yet. We're going to make decisions a little later today. With the great, committed contribution from the representative Bratli, I really hope that the government parties will turn around, and that we can get a unanimous decision in the Chamber today to put in place a child's road safety plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1945	Let me first thank you for a useful reminder from the proposers. It is important that young people get good and safe conditions in traffic as well, and I, as the Committee, want to do my job so that everyone goes and rides more – both children and adults. Cycling is good for health. Borns and young people who go to school or ride bicycles are more qualified to choose bicycles as means of transport than cars of adult age. In the present national transport plan, the government has three main objectives in the cycling effort: one of them is to increase the proportion of children and young people who go or ride bicycles to the school, up to 80 pst. The development and protection of school beds is also an important priority area in the strategy, and special attention is paid to developing safe, safe and attractive school grounds at a radius of 2 km from the schools. Actions will be implemented in addition to this, where there are specific needs related to road safety and/or better access measures. In the climate message that was just presented, cycling is an important field of activity. The government has proposed to double the investment in the development of walking and cycling roads in 2017 compared to the level of the day. Increased licenses will facilitate further development with the protection of school grounds so that more children can go and cycle to school. There is also a great deal of resources to build good routines and to run good information campaigns aimed at children and young people, so that they get good traffic behaviour and a good understanding of the traffic image. Many groups benefit from the transport system. It is only when we reach as many people as possible that national transport plans can become a holistic plan for pensioners, women, men, children, people with reduced mobility or others. This is when the plan becomes a tool for facilitating and prioritizing good solutions that will benefit as many people as possible. That's why I don't think it's a good idea to create your own plan for the children. I think the best thing, as far as advice, is to look at the different aspects in context: we have four main objectives in the national transport plan: firstly, to work for better development in the whole country; secondly, a vision of a transport system without killing or causing serious damage; thirdly, more environmentally friendly transport; and fourthly, a vision of a transport system that suits everyone, i.e. universal design. These objectives make us point a clear direction towards transport policy. Every year we measure how we approach these measurements. If we are to create our own plan for a group – well, I have noticed that the proposal says that the plan should be integrated, but then we will end up with plans for other groups and interests that will also be integrated. I don't believe in such a split. It's hard enough with the intersecting interests and the measures that we already have, if we don't have to make plans for different age groups. It is also the case that in several of the areas referred to in the option, this relates to infrastructure that either belongs to the municipalities or to the primary municipalities. This applies, for example: the proposal to build walking and cycling roads in a radius of 4 km around the schools. We've recently had a road reform in Norway. The county councils have been given a much larger role, and it is enough that they, together with the municipalities, will be responsible for much of the road network that is involved here. At national level, of course, we want to get involved in the importance of safe schooling, not least to make it a safe alternative to go to kindergarten or school. The state road authority does a lot in this area and is road administration also for county municipalities. However, these priorities must, at most circumstances, be done locally and regionally. A few years ago, the State Road Service saw how much it could cost to improve all measures in small and large in a radius of 2 km from the country's children's and young people's schools. At the same time, solutions were also evaluated in a radius of 2 to 4 km. I'm not going to go into numbers here – they're a few years old, and they're insecure, but there are tens of billions of dollars, and there are, after all, few, fortunately, who are killed or badly injured on the school grounds. These funds are likely to have a better impact if they are used in another way. However, let me conclude with first of all asking that we stick to the arrangement we have when it comes to the national transport plan, and second, that we stimulate each other to keep up with what is important here. Let me underline: we should not set different measures against each other. Our young people are future, so we need to integrate them in a special way also in the work on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1971	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1974	I want to challenge the Council of State that this will be an important perspective in the national transport plan. I want to name two areas. The one is a school road, where we now see a negative trend. That perspective must be reflected in the national transport plan. The second is, and this is partly related, that we see that the number of cyclists, not least among young people, shows a decline – from 17 pst. to 9 pst. in the 13-17 age group over a 10-year period. It's very dramatic. It is now clear that this dimension has been given much greater weight by the agencies than has been done in the previous national transport plan base document. Can the Council of State go as far as it can guarantee that this will be an important element that will shape the next national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1981	The answer to both questions is yes. There are very important questions that are raised here. Bicycle itself is a good precursor, but not least the concern for health and the environment suggests that it is important to increase the attention of bicycles as a means of emergence. When it comes to the school, the Directorate of Road has developed its own guide for traffic solutions in the school’s neighbourhood. Safe Traffic has also developed a guide for the assessment of the school. We also need to strengthen our awareness of that. Then I have to say that in addition to my local authorities' work on road safety, I have announced my own traffic safety price for this year for which I am going to distribute now in ours, and these two elements will be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e1988	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2004	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2013	I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and work. It is worth noting how united the committee is in this matter. There is a full agreement that the current framework for public and private parking regulation is not good enough. It says a collective committee. The Committee looks forward to proposals for legislative changes to make the rules more user-friendly. We need to improve the quality and user-friendliness of all parts of the parking service. I would also ask the Council of State to note that a single committee should consider a system where sanctions are differentiated. I believe that this is in line with the intention of the proposers, even though the Committee here gives the Council of State the freedom to consider different models of how this can be done in practice. I look forward to the Council of State commenting on this, and not least how it looks at the follow-up here. The same applies to the possibility of arrears in those cases where dependants and patients have a particular need for hospital parking. Here we have to put in place a better system, and I am glad that the committee is in agreement with this. In the vote, the Government Party – SV, the Labour Party and the Centre Party – and the Christian People's Party propose that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. Proposal No. 1-3 is supported by the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 4 and 5 are supported by the Progress Party. I expect that there will be an own foundation from those who support them. In his letter of reply, the Council of State states: «The current framework for public and private parking regulation is not good enough.» There's a lot of work going on, and that's exactly what we're waiting for and looking forward to. I also think it's a good thing what's in the setting here, that here technology will give us both new opportunities and perhaps new challenges. For example, if we take it positively, we will see the new telephone app they have received at Trondheim, which means that if one comes too late – if the meeting lasts 10, 15 or 20 minutes too long – one can only go on the phone and pay by phone. So the consequences don't get the same when the meeting lasts a little bit longer, and it's too late. It is therefore important to look at the kind of possibilities in the ministry when looking at the soundness of the new public and private parking frameworks in the future. I think I end up with those words. It has been a useful review in the Committee, but the great and important work awaits us until the specificity of the department is clear in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2035	First to the case rapporteur: I am a little surprised at this broad consensus. Now I'm not in this committee, but I'm one of the proposers, and I didn't realize that there was such a broad consensus. Because when there is broad consensus, it also tends to be broad consensus in conclusions and in the proposal. I see that the Right supports three of the proposals, and then there are two proposals on which the Progress Party is alone. Now this isn't a fight to figure out the wheel, or a fight about who first came up with the idea, but it's actually possible to support it if you agree, at least if you're in opposition. I understand that the position has some difficulty with that. Most drivers have experienced parking tickets that they believe are very unfair, subjectively. If you ask other drivers, they may not agree. However, sometimes parking tickets are paid, which both subjectively and objectively must be regarded as unfair. In any case, the amount of such fines is often not in proportion to the offence committed. The proposal of the representative of the Party for graduated parking tickets is a proposal aimed at clearing up the objective injustice found in this parking market. We are many who, for various reasons, have returned to a parked car a few minutes after the paid parking time has expired. The price you may have to pay for such a delay may be very high. Parking tickets range from 500 kroner to 750 kroner – yes, even up to 800 kroner a few times. If you think you have a five-minute exceedance of the parking time, a fine of NOK 750 gives you an hourly price of NOK 9 000. The party of progress considers such a fine to be out of proportion to the wrongdoing committed. No one would claim that a driver who is taken in a speed check to drive, for example, 5 km/h above the speed limit would get the same fine as one who runs twice as fast as the permitted speed limit. In the proposal for consideration, the Progress Party proposes that a parking space be increased proportionally with the time the vehicle is parked, in addition to the time it has paid. The maximum size of any fine shall not exceed the maximum rate of the day. The Party also proposes to lay down rules which make maximum fines impossible where parking rules or markings are indicated as weak. Furthermore, we want rules to be laid down so that payment for parking can in some cases be made in arrears. It is unreasonable – yes, almost sociable – that dependants on emergency hospital visits may experience a parking space after a final visit. We also ask the Stortinget to amend the legislation, so that parking companies have to comply more closely with the rates for fees and additional charges laid down in the regulation. Finally, we ask the government to review complaint procedures for parking tickets. All this is the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left against. Or are they for? I'm a little insecure. I look forward to hearing why the precisely exceeded parking time should be treated differently from other exceedances in other regulations. Maybe it's a little bit of contempt for the driver, you know, he who pollutes, emits CO2 and creates the global warming that causes many in poor countries to both starve and thirst in their heels. In its attempts to avoid having to refer to the above-mentioned justification, the opposition pointed to the difficulties encountered in the practical implementation of the proposed measures, as the rapporteur also pointed out. Or as a person in a online debate expressed: ‘It would have been interesting to know how this was to be implemented in practice. You'll be an hour late, but the boat was written out after 5 minutes – what then? Should a max-bot be printed anyway and then you have to prove that you were within a different graduation? Who has the burden of proof? Who will manage all the complaints? How much time and money does it cost to complain? Where does the fine actually save money...?» To such positions, it should be noted that practical challenges are at stake to be addressed and that technology could also be used in this context for the benefit of the consumer. But I can't help noticing that there are just such attitudes as the red-green, Christian People's Party and the Left, as well as this online debater, which make it difficult to move the world – and in this case, the world moves a little. Finally, let me suggest a practical approach – and people who are far wiser than me will certainly find many alternative models. The boat can get a code, and the driver can enter it into the parking machine, which calculates the size of the boat according to the time it has lasted for a long time. The fine is paid there every now and then. Alternatively, full fines are paid within the usual time limit. It does not require bureaucracy or waiting parking guards – to the great joy of most people. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party alone and with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2069	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2072	The proposers come up with a timely case, and three of the proposals will also have Right-wing support. The rapporteur has also given a good account of the matter. From the Right, we would like to stress the importance of having clear and tidy legislation in the public administration of parking spaces. We also respond in this way to the increased use of the price mechanism in public car parks. The impact of more efficient pricing will be better use of parking spaces. The most efficient use of resources is a prerequisite for a high level of well-being and the parking market should be subject to this efficiency requirement to some extent. The proposal from the Group of the European Progressive Democrats is a step in this direction, and we therefore believe that it is positive that the rapporteurs want to see this dealt with. It is good that car owners are given an incentive to move the car as soon as possible after the parking time has expired. It is also positive with a level of penalties that is proportionate to the level of overrun of the car park that has taken place. From the right, we would stress that the proposals require clear and clear definitions in order to be put into practice. The consequence of some of the proposals will be a strengthening of the rights of individuals. We will also stress that the parking needs of persons with reduced mobility should be taken into account in the design of the parking rules. We would otherwise point out that we are satisfied with the composition of the parking complaint subject, but we will also follow closely the situation in the private part of the parking industry. There is reason to stress that common parking rules for public and private operators must also take account of the protection of private ownership. The practice of today’s public and private parking regulation legislation is – and is regulated – not good enough, as it has been stressed in the past. Then it is that the Ministry of Transport has worked over time to get proposals for changes in place. The right-hand side meets this. It is also important to make the rules more user-friendly and at the same time to ensure a level playing field between public and private actors. Moreover, it is not necessary to clarify the different roles of municipalities in parking. In the Right, we look forward to the promptness of the government’s proposals for legislative changes that are necessary to implement a new and better regulation for both public and private parking. Such a proposal should also provide for better quality and ease of use in all parts of the parking service provided. The right also agrees with the Advance Party that the penalties are often not proportionate to the parking offences. We welcome the fact that the Council of State is considering the introduction of a system in which the penalties are differentiated. The proposal submitted outlines a possible solution model when the vehicle has been in the parking space for a long time, that this can be differentiated. But, as I said, the system must be transparent, user-friendly, and in particular, it must take into account that patients and relatives need to have better and clearer legislation than is the case today. The proposals on which the Right, together with the Advancement Party, have been addressed earlier, and I will then comply with the recommendation to be brief in the submissions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2089	Despite the suggestion of Tybring-Gedde's representative in the Progress Party, and the incompetence of bringing starving African children into this matter, I still choose to take the proposers seriously. Then he gets to answer for himself. That is precisely what the 'protocol annexed' means: we take this proposal seriously, and we look at it more closely. The council says quite specifically that this is something we are working on. We're doing a lot of these fields. I think it's very important that we do this in a thorough way and we don't vote on anything here and now – because we don't know the consequences. Is there going to be more cases? Do we create a bureaucracy to figure out when the car was standing there, and when he wasn't standing there? What are the consequences of such detailed decisions in Stortinget? We need to know. That is why we say that we are positive about the proposal and attach it to the Minutes. That's the real way this government acts. Then the proposers are asked to consider whether they should act a little more factually when making their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2098	Today's parking regulation framework is not good enough. This applies particularly to private parking, but also to public parking could be better. I therefore look forward to the implementation of the new common parking system that the Ministry of Transport is working on. The work has taken a long time. It has been necessary to arrive at optimal solutions for all parties. The important purpose of this work has been to make the rules more user-friendly and to maintain a level playing field between private and public operators. The issues raised in the proposal for a representative relate in particular to the reactions of violations of parking rules. Quite rightly, these questions are important to the consumer, but I am also busy improving the quality of signage, marking and payment arrangements. These issues and many others have been assessed in the work on the new common parking system. We have been trying to keep track of the proposals during our work. I am sure that the individual consumer will experience a better ‘parking every day’ when the different rules of the common organisation are introduced. The introduction of these rules will require changes in laws, especially in road traffic laws, and the Ministry is now working on proposals for these changes. Work is not finished. Therefore, I cannot comment on the details of the proposals. After the amendment proposals have been heard, I will present them to the Stortinget. I have listened to the various articles here today, and I would like to stress that I am going to read these articles with interest to see if there is anything that is not at all covered in a work that has been going on for years – this in order to avoid unnecessary extra rounds. But let me just say it again: we're going to have a piece of legislation out on our ears; there's going to be changes here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2112	This is not of the big issues that really change the world, but it is a bit of everyday life for many people, who experience irritation about getting a parking fee when they come back shortly after the parking time has expired. I'm very happy that the Council of State places emphasis on signage and all of this. This was also taken into account in the proposals of the Progress Party. I am pleased with the positive signals that have come from many. It is still the case that I am unable to settle down with the government saying that it is working on this. Will the Council of State say to the Norwegian people how long has you actually been working on this? This has been a job for quite many years without having delivered anything. One is how long you've been working on it. The second thing is, when is something coming? That's why I have felt the need for the Storting Pusher to do this. There will be a way of how long a government will work on something without materializing in a change — or a regulation change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2121	I understand that outrageously. I myself did not find it particularly gratifying to hear that there was a working group set up by the Ministry of Transport in 2006, which proposed a common parking system. Then it turned out afterwards that there was a need for further work. For this reason, we have another working group, which is the most difficult evaluation to make. To the third question – when one is going to present something to the Stortinget in this field: It is my ambition to get the bill out on the phone during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2129	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2134	I just want to answer briefly the questions that were asked to me as a case spokesman. What I feel is that the committee is very much in agreement about are two things. The one thing is that one stands open for a differentiation of the parking charges. The second is that one thinks that today's regime is not good enough and that it has to work on it. What, then, is the reason why we don't put ourselves behind the proposals? The challenging Tybring-Getting me on. To be brief here: If we look at proposal No. 1, says that the bot should be increased proportionally after the length of time the vehicle has been parked over time. In his post, Tybring-Gjedde says that there should be a maximum level on it, but that is not included in the proposal. I do not feel that this proposal has been well worked through enough to be included. As the proposal says, and as the department could interpret it, it could be tens of thousands if the car has been a little too long. If we look at proposal No. 2, it states that if the legislation and the parking rules are ‘declared weak’, the maximum fine shall not be printed. If it is too bad marked, too little visible, then it should not give a fine at all, I think about it. But I don't want to have a debate about this. That's the whole thing of this. I feel that the Committee felt that this proposal was important. It has given Stortinget a good debate, and precisely when it concerns the health here, the committee agrees on two things: we want a differentiation – we look forward to it – and we think that today's regime is not good enough. And I thought that the Council of State has answered this very well in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2149	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2163	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2172	The Swedish FRA Act was adopted in the Riksdag in 2008. The law allows the authorities to facilitate the screening of electronic communications crossing the national border. It is not unusual for Norwegian electronic communications to be routed via Sweden. Norwegian domestic traffic, which the Swedish authorities consider to be transit traffic, can thus be monitored by law in FRA law. 1 October this year is being extended so that the Security Police and the Rikskriminal Police can be given access to information obtained by the Swedish Defence Radio Agency (FRA). It is this extension of the law that has updated the matter, and this is part of the background of the proposal for a representative from the Progress Party. In a 2008 report, the Swedish Data Protection Authority concludes that the FRA Act has implications for Norwegian data protection. The supervision of my promises can potentially have a dampening effect on the boldness and thus on the freedom of expression of society. Swedish authorities have clearly stated that the FRA Act does not have the primary purpose of monitoring Norwegian citizens. But I agree with the Ministry of Transport that there is an unfortunate situation in which electronic communications from Norwegian citizens can actually be monitored. It is therefore important to maintain contact with the authorities in Sweden, as the Ministry has promised on its own websites according to a case of news. The Committee setting has to be interpreted as an expression – at least I do – that the government party shares the opposition's concerns, and that Norwegian authorities are in contact with Swedish authorities on the matter, as it is a matter of urgency. But the government suggests that the proposal is not accepted, and I believe that the government party itself will deepen its vision. When the Right Party and the Christian People's Party propose that the document be annexed to the Minutes, at least it is for the Christian People's Party because we support the substance of the proposal, but there is no need to enter open doors here. We assume that the government keeps pushing it up. So there are two proposals. One is from the Progress Party, who asks that the cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union if necessary, and it is the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party that this be annexed to the Minutes. I then choose to present the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2192	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2195	It is not difficult to see that there are contentious aspects of the Swedish FRA Act. That is also why there have been very tough and demanding debates in Sweden on this legislation, and the bourgeois government has had to endure much criticism of the bill. However, the Social Democrats in Sweden have made a compromise with the government, among others. to strengthen the privacy side of the law. As the proposers point out, the FRA Act also has implications for Norwegian network users. Since almost all lines from Norway to the rest of the world pass through Sweden, this means that FRA legislation is breaking down when we visit foreign websites and call abroad. This is otherwise not unique for this matter. One aspect of the Data Storage Directive and the resulting legislation – but which was not discussed – is that if a data traffic is for example, it can already be stored in other countries under the Directive. uses network operators that store traffic in countries where the Directive has already been implemented, as it is in most of our neighbouring European countries. This is the consequence of us living in a global world, and that network traffic knows no borders. Then it will also be up to individual countries to decide which regulations will apply. The proposers want the Norwegian authorities to bring up the FRA Act with the Swedish authorities. Here the proposers turn open doors, because this has already happened. There has been contact between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities on the matter, among other things. were presented in the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer, which were dealt with in the Stortinget on 13 December 2010. Furthermore, the proposers wish the Norwegian authorities to bring the matter before the European Court of Justice if necessary. To that end, Sweden is likely to have the right to introduce such legislation, justified on the grounds of safeguarding national security interests. There are limits to what Norway can do to influence such a law. It is also small that businesses regulated by the FRA Act can be said to fall within the scope of EU rules. This is legislation that intends to safeguard Swedish national security interests, and this is normally considered to be a national matter. For this reason, we do not find the proposal to consider bringing the issue to the Court of Justice of the European Union particularly relevant. This is the political reason why the majority in this case, the red-green parties, proposed to reject the case and propose to Stortinget that the case not be adopted. I have noticed that this has fallen some progress party representatives heavily for the chest, but we stress that we are constitutionally in our full right to do so. I would like to refer to Section 29 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, which says: «When a proposal for a representative has been sent to a committee, the Committee shall give its opinion to the Stortinget. If the Committee considers that the proposal should be complied with in full or in part and that the matter is suitable for decision in the Grand Duchy without further investigation, it should be brought to an end after the State Council has had the opportunity to give its opinion. [[...]] If the Committee finds it doubtful that the proposal does not deserve the approval of the Storting, it should without further delay encourage the rejection of the proposal.’.» The majority in this case, the red-green parties, do not support the proposals of the Progress Party and are therefore of the opinion that the Document 8 proposal should not be adopted. I have also noticed that although the Right Party and the Christian People's Party wish to attach Document 8:56 to the Protocol, neither do these parties support the individual proposals of the Progress Party. I must also say that I do not think it serves the cause of Stortinget when representatives from one party go out and accuse representatives from other parties of wanting less democracy and openness when they have followed the Stortinge Rules of Procedure to the point. The minority have rights – I stress that too – but it is also part of democracy that a majority can vote against proposals promoted by a minority, and it is part of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure that proposals that do not receive the consent of the Stortinge, i.e. the majority, cannot be proposed without further ado.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2219	It was fantastic that I got the floor after the previous representative, from the Workers' Party. For it is in this case that a majority of the committee chose to refuse the minority the possibility of obtaining the opinion of the State Council on what she thought about this proposal. I think it's sad. I know that the Workers' Party, with the representative Bjørnflaten at the head, is not so much concerned with the privacy of the individual and it seems to be quite fine to carry out massive surveillance, cf. the new Data Storage Directive. And obviously, it is perfectly right that Swedish authorities are actively monitoring and have the possibility of active monitoring – not only where you send e-mails, and who you have sent to, but can actually also go in and look at the content of the e-mail. It's a pretty big interference in the privacy sphere, and not least in terms of privacy. I also find it quite interesting to hear both the chairman of the committee Hareide and the representative of Bjørnflaten, who indicates that there has been a great deal of contact between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities. We've asked questions. When we did not get the opportunity in the committee, it is actually that in the context of the revised state budget you have the opportunity to ask questions. Then I want to quote what the question and the answer were. This concerns question 37 from the Financial Committee/Fremskrit party fraction of 15 May to the Minister of Finance, and then to the Minister of Transport. The question was: ‘To what extent has the government been in contact with the Swedish authorities as regards the FRA Act and its extension?’ The question has been referred to the Ministry of Transport, which has given the following answer: ‘It has not been’ – I repeat – ‘There has been no formal contact between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities on the present proposal for the extension of the FRA Act [[Federal Radio Institution]] Since the Swedish authorities have taken a new decision to extend the possibility that the police too should be able to access and obtain this information from the national police and safety authorities in Sweden, there has therefore been no formal contact between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities. I really hope that the Christian People's Party and at least the Right will change their views and support the proposals of the Advance Party. Because it shows that the contact they thought they had had – I think it is special that there has been no political contact between Norway and Sweden – has not been there. It has been at the level of office in 2009 before the changes in the law. Then I would like to remind you: it is quite essential that Swedish citizens have received a completely different protection from Norwegian citizens in the case of the FRA Act. So there are opportunities to monitor Norwegian citizens in a completely different way from Swedish citizens. I don't think you should be aware of that. I also think it is sad when the representative Langeland says that in his opinion this is something the Stortinget has nothing to do with. If the highest elected body in this country does not have the authority and the ability to tell the government that this should actually start to do something about it, because it's about the privacy of individuals in this country, I wonder who's going to do it. I really hope that the privacy of individuals in Norway is now taken seriously. A lot of people have addressed this issue. I know it's in the European Commission on Human Rights, it's still pending. But it's about the privacy of all the residents of Norway. Knowing that most of the Internet traffic is via Sweden means that it is open to the Swedish authorities to have the full potential for massive monitoring of Norwegian citizens and the content of e-mails. I very much want to – and hope – that the Council of State can confirm the answer we have received from the Ministry of Transport, that there has been no contact other than at the level of officials, and obviously not so high either, since 2009, the first time it was about the defence being given these opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2244	The President has overseen the post of Mr Bård Hoksrud, but has not registered that Mr Hoksrud has made the proposal. Does Hoksrud want to present it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2247	Very much, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2252	Then it's good that the president is monitoring! And then the proposal is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2255	Initially, I would like to remind you that the FRA Act that we are talking about here is Swedish legislation, and to those who are very concerned with abbreviations, I can say that FRA stands for the Swedish Defence Radio Agency, and the Swedish Federal Defence Radio Agency is given the opportunity to investigate all cable-borne traffic, as it is called in the explanation of the abbreviation. The rapporteur has explained the matter thoroughly and also the reasons for the proposal by the Right and Christian People's Party. I'll be careful to make the Right View visible. We are aware that there is contact between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities in this matter. Now, in the previous article, there were doubts about that, and I expect the Council of State to clarify that situation, because this is important information also for the Right. For us, it is important to stress that it is appropriate that the Norwegian authorities keep constantly informed about the Swedish authorities' practice of this law through regular cooperation channels, and that Stortinget is also briefed on any matters of major importance. It is also known to the right that in 2008 the Post and Telecommunications Authority and the Data Protection Authority made an assessment of the Swedish FRA Act and its impact on Norwegian citizens. The question was to what extent the law would lead to the recording of the content of Norwegian citizens' electronic communications when they cross the border with Sweden. We have noticed that the reports from the two inspections showed that electronic communications between Norway and the rest of the world mainly cross the border with Sweden, and that communication in this context could be registered under the Swedish FRA Act. In some cases, electronic communications between citizens of Norway may also be able to find their way through Sweden and, as a result, be subject to possible registration. It is important in the interests of privacy that privacy is protected when people use electronic communications, and we are doing so increasingly. The Data Protection Authority concludes that the FRA Act has an impact on privacy and that it could potentially have a dampening effect also on the freeness of speech and, therefore, freedom of expression, which we use as a value in our society. From the Right-wing side, we are aware that there is contact between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities in this matter, and we would like to encourage systematic and good authority dialogue. It is important and necessary that the Stortinget should be kept properly informed, as the nature of the case requires close contact between Norwegian and Swedish authorities. I expect the Council of State will explain the small uncertainty that was now created about this necessary contact, and that in the light of privacy and the gravity of the matter itself, the Council of State will clarify it. The proposal has been addressed in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2275	We're dealing here with Swedish national laws that relate to the security of the state. Swedish authorities are initially allowed to lay down rules for such purposes. Nor has Norwegian civil servants been in full contact with Swedish government powers and expressed concerns about the possible impact on Norwegian citizens. Swedish authorities have shown some understanding of this, they believe that Norwegian governments and citizens should not be disturbed, but have otherwise found no reason to do anything about the laws. In the talks with Sweden, Norwegian government officials thought that electronic communications that take the road via Sweden, but that go to other countries, so-called transit traffic, should not be of interest to Swedish government powers and subject to possible control. Swedish powers are not listed in it. They were aware that the ability to monitor such traffic was as important in terms of Swedish security interests as traffic to or from Sweden. At the same time, they stress that there must be a good reason for such a control and that the Defence Intelligence Court must have given a judicial decision permitting such a measure. From the Swedish team, it was pointed out that although electronic communications to and from Norway would have little interest in Swedish governmental powers, Sweden could not enter into a separate solution for Norway. They also pointed out that they would not be able to distinguish transit traffic from traffic between the two neighbouring countries. There are limits to what Norwegian government powers can do with matters beyond what has already been done. It has been over three years since the FRA Act was adopted, and it has now been practised for more than two years. I'm skeptical of the FRA Law, but I think we have to rely on the control system established by Swedish government. Similarly, we should also have confidence in the Swedish Court of Justice, which assesses whether signalling should be useful. We have to assume that the Court of Justice is dealing with the applications in line with the indications that a signal scan should only be allowed when the required information cannot be obtained in a less interventional way. Many countries other than Sweden benefit from signal testing and have more or less clear rules for this. There is a sense that we have no guarantee that our electronic communications are not controlled by governmental powers in other countries, when the information is transmitted on networks outside Norway's borders. Some of the electronic communications between Norwegian citizens within Norway may occasionally become the route via Sweden, so that some of Norwegian domestic communications may potentially be subject to surveillance. I have spent most of my time on this issue after the first contact with Swedish government officials, as this is something we can do more easily with. The Ekomlova is now being audited, and in the hearing that has been given, it was suggested that the telecommunications companies should not be able to route their traffic via Sweden without the subscribers being explicitly made aware of this. I intend to present such an order by proposing the necessary changes in the echo promise of the Storting to the cottage. Then there has been a question now about an answer given to the Progress Party in connection with the revised national budget. That answer applies to the extension that is now being discussed in Sweden by the FRA Law. For this last extension, there has been no contact between Norwegian and Swedish authorities, but we have already sent out a message from the Ministry of Transport about the contact that has been made and it has been notified to Stortinget through the Annual Report of the Swedish Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2301	I want to challenge the Minister a little further, because she says that it is expressed in the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority what has happened here. I thought a clear and clear response was received from the department, which says that there has been no formal contact other than at the office level once in 2009. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer: does it agree, and can the Council of State ensure that the Committee is provided with all the evidence of the contact and dialogue that has taken place? Because it is serious for the privacy of individuals in Norway that you can be exposed to total monitoring of the content of what you send by e-mail.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2306	To the contact that has been made, we attend a number of Nordic ministerial meetings and other meetings where we discuss different topics, without each time reporting to the Stortinget what we have been talking about. That would, I think, also be quite unmanageable both for the different departments and for the Stortinget. The specific issue raised in the context of the revised national budget was not covered, as I understand it, by the laws introduced in Sweden in 2008/2009. It was the extension of the laws that are being discussed just these days, and otherwise there is a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2311	I think it was clarifying information from the Minister for Transport – there has been contact, but nothing but sporadic, and no change has been made. On the contrary, there are further arguments that Swedes are fully entitled to explore the movements of Norwegian Internet users online. After all, political leadership must be calm that from 1 October 2012, Norwegian citizens must accept that signals can be intercepted from non-Norwegian elected authorities but belong to another country. My question is whether, before this entry into force, the Council of State may consider taking new policy initiatives towards the Swedish authorities and assessing remedial measures of a more technical nature to ensure the privacy of Norwegian Internet users.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2316	So that's the answer, yes, I'm going to do that. At the same time, I must stress that these are national laws like Sweden, as I understand it, are in their full right to adopt. But I'm going to pass on the anxiety that I've registered here. It is – I would like to stress – a concern that I myself already have, but that we have had the opportunity to do something about. I'm going to meet the Swedish Minister the next week, and I'm going to make a first contact about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2321	I will be very brief, because that is exactly what the representative Tetzschner brought up, I was also busy with. It has been a good dialogue, but it is promised to be extended from 1 October this year, and both the Security Police and the Rikskriminal Police will be able to access information obtained by the Swedish Defence Radio Agency. Then we can almost only be confirmed that the Council of State will deal with this with its colleague, whom she meets next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2326	That's the answer. I also need to ensure that the agency that is already far more involved in the technical details of this, than I am, also contacts that context and continues the dialogue that they have already had.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2331	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2336	I would like to praise Hoksrud for having raised an important debate. It is paradoxical that we are almost without debate entering into a legal state in which violence is practiced against what was a sacred principle when we discussed the Data Storage Directive. Where they comforted – and in and on others too – they said that there was at least a limit in content testing. But that is what can now be done in practice: in cross-border traffic, there are opportunities for authorities not under democratic rule in Norway to check, so that the behaviour of Norwegian citizens on the Internet can also be exposed in terms of content. It is a rather serious dimension, which is more serious than the Data Storage Directive, given that it was then kept within the limit of not being interested in the content of the communication. When the Swedes say that this law is not addressed to citizens of other countries, it is partly correct, for it applies to all cross-border traffic, it is not specifically addressed to Norway. Originally, the bill was also designed to allow it to allow for internal communication in Sweden, but after a larger debate on the FRA law than the one they had on the Data Storage Directive, the Swedish data protection opinion was pushed forward to ensure that communication between Swedes could not at least be investigated. The question could then be asked whether Norway and Sweden could be viewed as a single data area in this context, so that, when you do not care about the communication between Dalarna and Skåne, you could imagine that there was no interest in the communication between Rogaland and Skåne. Technically, it must be possible to find solutions if the politicians want to. That is why I have also noted that the Council of State will adopt a somewhat more forward-looking position on these issues in meeting its Swedish colleagues. It is an unsatisfactory legal situation if we simply want to settle down on 1 October, and that a very large proportion of Norwegian Internet users will be deprived of their privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2347	I would like to read what the question was asked was: To what extent has the government been in contact with the Swedish authorities regarding the FRA Act and its extension? When the Council of State instead said that she interpreted what happened after 2009, that was not the question, the question is both. That means that what the Council of State replied to instead is not right. What I assume is that the Ministry of Transport and the Council of State have read and blackened the Stortinget, is that there has been one meeting, and that was before the law came into force in 2009. I think this is serious, and I am pleased that the Council of State now says that she should be more forward-looking on this, because she agrees that this is not good for Norwegian citizens. But I think it's too passive that, in addition, the Council of State is constantly blaming that this is national law in Sweden. The whole point of the Progress Party and the reason why we ask the Council of State to have a much more offensive attitude and be very concerned about it is that we have to try to influence the Swedish authorities – just as the Swedish citizens have influenced the Swedish authorities to change the legislation and the law there against Swedish citizens. But it's obviously okay as long as it's not Swedish residents. I now experience that the Council of State has not done so much offensively to prevent the FRA Act and the interference it entails in the privacy of individuals here in Norway, and not least the new impact it has on the citizens of Norway from 1 October 2012. I really hope that we see a more offensive Council of State, and that we get an overview of what the Council of State has done in this matter. I would also encourage the Council of State to read the statement to Jon Wessel-Aas that Swedish surveillance is in violation of the human rights of Norwegian citizens, and the complaint that has also been sent to the Council of Europe's Human Rights Court. I hope the Council of State will read this and come more offensively to protect the privacy of Norwegian citizens. I think it is sad that so little has been done to prevent the massive possibility that the Swedish authorities have actually got into the content of the Internet traffic of Norwegian citizens. I hope that the Council of State will come back and make sure that we know everything that has been done in this matter, and to see how offensive it has been. As I said, we have experienced that representatives here have said that this should not interfere with the Storting. I think this is definitely something the Storting should interfere with and actually should be able to instruct the government to follow up, in order to protect Norwegian citizens' rights and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2363	It is just worrying that so many in the Storting are little concerned with such an important question as this. It's true that this relationship has been brought in for the European Court of Human Rights. It is the International Legal Commission — the Norwegian Department that has done so. I want to quote very briefly two lines from there, even if it's in English. It is a reference to ‘Norwegian citizens’, with the following quotation: « but also basically «lawless» with regards to any legal protection or remedies by which their basic rights to privacy and freedom of expression can be secured.» [[...]] It is quite serious matters which are brought before this court. There are many questions raised in this case, not least about the way the matter is dealt with here in Stortinget, and about the activity in the case concerning the Swedish authorities that the Council of State has now tried to explain. This raises a lot of questions, and one of those you can ask is whether you deliberately want to sub-communicate this issue. But it is there, and it came when the law first came in Sweden, and it gets a new turn when the law expands. Both aspects have been addressed in the Progress Party's Document 8 proposal, and it will receive a new revolution when the law is extended, i.e. later in 2012. It brings a new dimension into the media. Unfortunately, we are taking a new step towards less privacy. From what we did when we introduced the Data Storage Directive, we are taking a new step into the insecure, and that is happening in our neighbouring country. The feedback we receive from there is that the Swedish authorities have probably listened kindly to us, but said that they care little, and little will be done. Then it is a little reassuring that the Council of State now assures us that she will keep more pressure than the small pressure we can read that has been, but that is not reassuring enough. Finally, one of the questions is why the Norwegian authorities will not do as the Progress Party proposes, namely to take this case further to the EU Court of Justice. Here we become less masters in our own house, here we bring Norwegian citizens into security with regard to privacy, and we allow the Swedish and Swedish authorities to do so, with legitimate reasons. That's what we're dealing with. We then need to assess all existing instruments, and that is what the Progress Party encourages and proposes, among other things. in the proposal we have put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2381	I will only take the floor to register with the Minutes. It applies to claims made by my friends in the Progress Party on the Data Storage Directive, where we stood together. It sounds like we've gone from each other, but we don't. SV, and probably also the Center Party, has repeatedly expressed itself very critically to the FRA Act. I have been in many debates where I have taken a distance from her, and where I have in a way asked Swedish authorities to end this. When I say that we have nothing to do with it, it is based on the point of the Minister of Transport, namely that there are Swedish authorities that passed Swedish laws. Then it is my opinion, and I have also discussed it with the Minister for Transport, that the Norwegian Government must contact the Swedish Government – and get pressured up at that level. So the main point is that it is not Hoksrud and Langeland who pass the laws of the Swedish parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2388	The representative, Mr Bjørnflaten, put forward a matter concerning the committee's proceedings, where she felt that if there was a clear majority in the committee who did not want or saw the need for a matter to be dealt with, it was a consequence that the matter was not dealt with in its entirety. I have to say that when we hear that there has been one meeting at the level of office between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities over several years, I understand better and better that it was a great wish that this matter should not be treated openly at all. It becomes even more obvious when the representative Langeland then claims that he is critical, both to the Data Storage Directive and the FRA Act in Sweden, but at the same time does not want an open and full discussion of the matter in the Committee. Then I wonder what's actually going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2395	There is one side to the Progress Party's proposal that has not been commented on by me. It is the proposal to bring this law before the European Court of Justice. So the FRA Act intends to secure Swedish security interests. It is considered a national case, which is not regulated by Community law. Therefore, in my opinion, it is not particularly relevant to bring FRA law before the European Court of Justice. But let me now stress, for the first time, that from the Swedish side it is therefore underlined that there must be a good reason to do so, and that the Defence Intelligence Court must have given a judicial decision allowing such a measure. Secondly, the Court should consider any applications in line with the indications that a signal scan should only be allowed when the necessary information cannot be obtained in a less invasive way. Thirdly, I have already referred to the fact that we have both informal and formal dialogue, and that is because we have shown this one meeting, formally, at the official level. Now I have already replied to the Storting that I am going to follow up this matter more closely, and then we are also going to assume that we are reporting back in our own way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2404	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2418	As the rapporteur, I am pleased to be able to present the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Hong Kong SAR and an Agreement on trade in agricultural products between Norway and Hong Kong SAR, both of 21 June 2011. The main objective of the FTA is to stimulate increased trade and economic cooperation between the parties. This free trade agreement covers trade in goods and services, investment, public acquisitions, intellectual property rights, dispute settlements and competition, trade measures and the environment. Furthermore, EFTA and Hong Kong SAR have also concluded a specific agreement on trade and employee rights provisions. The Free Trade Agreement ensures Norwegian exporters and investors increased predictability and improved framework conditions. Hong Kong SAR already offers duty-free market access for all types of goods and the Free Trade Agreement ensures that this practice is continued. In 2010, trade in goods between the EFTA States and Hong Kong SAR amounted to 8.3 billion. USD. Trade has still increased – by 11 pst. annual since 2000. Trade between Norway and Hong Kong amounted to a total of 2.4 billion in 2011. kr. The main export product for Norway is fish — specifically salmon and trout. We have an agreement on zero duty on imports into Hong Kong SAR of all seafood products from Norway. The Agreement with Hong Kong SAR is the first agreement that EFTA has negotiated, on the basis of the model chapter on trade and sustainable development, on the basis of which it agreed to form the basis of the EFTA negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement at the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in June 2010. Since Hong Kong SAR does not have independent competence in ILO matters, in the negotiations they could not accept the provisions on employee rights, which are formally separate from the Free Trade Agreement, but where there are direct links between the Free Trade Agreement and the Side Agreement. In the case law of the Free Trade Agreement, the parties certify inter alia: its commitment and respect for human rights, sustainable development, democracy, corporate social responsibility, transparency, good public governance and anti-corruption. Since the Free Trade Agreement requires admissibility decisions and is considered to be of particular importance, the Magnitude shall consent to them. I hereby make a unanimous recommendation on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2439	I would like to end with what the rapporteur said in the matter. In many ways it covers the content of the agreement. I just have to join it. The importance of concluding these agreements is that trade itself is positive. It creates relationships, it creates income and a good business. The interaction with Hong Kong is on approx. 2.4 B.C.E. kr. Of these, Norwegian exports to Hong Kong amount to 1.4 billion. kr, so it is not our biggest trading partner. But it is an important trading partner. What is most impressive about this agreement in many ways – where the negotiations have also been conducted by the EFTA country Switzerland – is simply the time aspect, the time it has been possible to achieve this. Negotiations were started on 1 January 2010 and the agreement had been negotiated on 4 March 2011. So the question is, where have things gone along the way, as we now write 31 May 2012 before we have it for final treatment in Stortinget? You can just wonder about that. But I could have intended to challenge the Council of States, not necessarily on this agreement, but on an agreement that has repeatedly been included in this room, and which we have not yet ratified. So I could imagine that the Council of State says a few words about where the Colombia agreement is. It is another trade agreement that has been negotiated, which has been signed, but which has not been ratified. If the Council of State can only say a little about it, I use this opportunity to ask questions about another trade agreement – if the Council of State is willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2454	Let me first say that I appreciate the Committee's agreement to the ratification of a free trade agreement between EFTA and Hong Kong and an agreement on trade in agricultural products between Norway and Hong Kong. It is an important agreement, because Hong Kong itself is an important partner, but also because Hong Kong seems to be an important gateway to mainland China, where growth continues to be great, and where we know that the economic weight in the future is going to lie to a greater extent than today. We also know that such trade agreements contribute to predictability for Norwegian companies, and one thing you need to do when investing and investing in other countries is to know what the framework conditions will be for a long time. We have also included in this agreement the new chapters on trade and the environment. With regard to employee rights, the situation is such that Hong Kong does not have independent competence in ILO cases but is represented by China. It was therefore not possible to get it into this agreement. However, I am pleased that we have managed to negotiate a specific agreement on employee rights, which is formally separate from the free trade agreement, but where there are direct links between the free trade agreement and this agreement. We're actively working on a lot of trade agreements right now. It is right that the agreement with Colombia is ready. At the same time, we know that the human rights situation, and the situation of trusted and professional mobility in Colombia, is very critical. We have said in the past – and I can repeat this here – that we are trying to reach a bilateral agreement with Colombia on these issues, and in the light of that, we are also ratifying the trade agreement. We know that the United States has had similar things with Colombia. Switzerland also has its own bilateral agreement with Colombia, and that is what we want to get from the Norwegian side. So there's dialogue between Norway and Colombia about this, and let me say it like this: it's not up to us to complete this and put it in place so that we can ratify the agreement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2467	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2481	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2490	The background to the proposal from the Left, which the Committee has examined, is concern about the clear reduction in gas and growth businesses we have seen in recent years. This concern is shared by the right, and there is every reason to keep an eye on the framework conditions — not only for entrepreneurs and start-ups, but also for existing enterprises in general, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The financial crisis is probably responsible for seeing this reduction, but it also has the general climate. The NHO’s economic survey today clearly shows the division of the Norwegian economy and how heavy it is for non-oil-related export companies that are struggling with non-growth – of course as a result of our high cost level. When the Right does not vote in favour of this proposal, it is based on the fact that we believe that the lack of start-ups and growing businesses has many and complex reasons, not just lack of capital. The level of taxation is important, not least in order to be able to continue in the post-establishment phase. Simplification and red tape of establishment processes is important. Discrimination between individual companies and limited companies is another theme, and we already have some arrangements, not least within Innovation Norway, but also the TaxFUNN scheme. With regard to Innovation Norway, the Committee is now examining an evaluation in parallel, and it is clear that we are also obliged to find out whether we are using the already existing funds and schemes in a way that has a good enough impact on growing businesses. The national seed funds are involved. They are referred to by the Council of State in a reply to the Committee. There has been a period of drought. The government has finally come on track in the revised national budget, but it will take time for this to work. They shall be notified to ESA on the one hand. AIFMs shall be selected and provided with investors on the other hand. It will also show whether the new and changed conditions will be good enough to attract private capital. Then, in his letter to the Committee, the Council of State also writes that he is anxious about rights-based schemes. I agree with him that it is economically unbridled, and that it should be reasonably certain of the results and of the cost of such schemes – because that is what is proposed by the Left. But the Tax Fund, for example, that the Bondevik government introduced, has proved to be a system that works well. In the case of rights-based schemes that operate for business, Right-wing belief in removing the property tax on working capital is strong. Reductions and the removal of property taxes in total will be a very good rights-based scheme that we have the sense of. By the way, I have understood that the Council of State also has, although he wants to compensate for the loss of income with something else. So I share the concern of the Council of State that such a scheme as it proposes may be tax-subsidising and providing better funding for poorly developed projects, or projects that are not «good enough», as he writes. But here it has to be added that it will mean that private investors have also borne a share of a loss, and that the view of the Council of State should also be extended towards direct State subsidisation. After all, it is no better to lose the tax-subsidised part than to lose what is directly inserted through, for example. schemes in Innovation Norway and the measures in place there. We should be quite careful at all about how we use taxpayers' money, whether it is in one way or another – even when we use it for the good purpose of promoting business. It should be as measurable as possible. Increased access to capital is important, both private capital and foreign capital, but everything should be seen in a context. We have made proposals throughout the period to ease the burden on jobs and investors and to facilitate taxation. We are going to give priority to the proposals we have already proposed, and to other measures that we have committed ourselves to, when we go into the 2013 budget. Having said that, of course, we will look with great goodwill at all proposals that can stimulate establishment, innovation and new growth. In this regard, we do not want to commit ourselves by voting in favour of the proposal, but instead promote a proposal that it should be annexed to the protocol – which is a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2511	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2514	The provider of this private proposal wants a culture of industry and a framework that stimulates value-creating entrepreneurship, and a lack of innovation that paves the way for more and more Norwegian companies to find happiness in an open and dynamic value. We're probably talking about everybody here in the hall today. But on the other hand, if the proposed medicine is right, it's not really a deal. There is no doubt that the Business Committee is busy with innovation and entrepreneurship. All the matters from the government in the area and all the private suggestions show this to the full. Where no support has been provided by a Joint Committee, it shall include, inter alia: because the majority find it difficult to see that a rights-based scheme is the right way to go. Only the stepping party has entered and supported this line. When we don't want red-green to be presented, it's just that a challenge with rights-based schemes is that they can be very expensive and that many of the projects that are funded would have been carried out anyway. We red-green think that long-term and sustainable framework conditions and safe economic governance are the most important pillars for creating and maintaining jobs. The fact that nearly 300,000 new jobs have been created since 2005, out of these 200,000 in the private sector, and that Norway is at the top when it comes to keeping unemployment low shows that government policies work. The working party, SV and the Centre are concerned with stimulating entrepreneurship and the emergence of growth enterprises. This is important to ensure future value creation, good jobs and future well-being. Good and prudent framework conditions, including: a simple, transparent regulatory framework, a good reporting system, prudent levels of taxation and access to skilled labour are important factors here. These are the factors that keep working on getting better. Both SIVA and Innovation Norway have schemes to stimulate entrepreneurship, including: an organised infrastructure and arrangements that establish ad hoc and innovation loans. All of these schemes place strong demands on innovation height. We are now dealing with the Stortinget StoringsMessage on the evaluation of Innovation Norway and SIVA. This evaluation was long requested by the opposition. The aim of the message is to provide a public tool that is tailored to your business needs in the coming years. Today's tool schemes also take care of the private initiative by, for example: Innovation Norway does not complete the project but requires private entrepreneurs or banks to share the risk. This will also result in an external assessment of the individual project. I agree with the representative from the Right who says that one has to be careful to compensate with more public capital or increase the level of tax subsidies, if the explanation for the lack of funding is that the project is not good enough. The theme all of us here in the nutrition committee, and we will probably be discussing what medicine, and what amount, is the best, and – as I said – the goal we all agree on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2542	Initially, I would like to mention that there are almost 50 000 new businesses in Norway each year. Hardly one in three survives for the first five years, and the survivors usually remain small. Document 8:78 of 2011–2012 on a Capital Reform for Increased Innovation and Entrepreneurship is an important matter that the Progress Party considers to be guilty and strange it cannot become a unanimous decision at present. I'd like to commend the Left on the matter. Norway is constantly in need of new enterprises that can create new values and jobs — not just short-term enterprises, but companies that can develop further for a long time. This also applies to already established enterprises, which see the possibility of further development but which either lack financial resources or need help or assistance in some way. It is true that Norway is at the top of the world in terms of new start-ups. But often these are relatively short-term establishments. There are probably many reasons for this, but the need for assistance in some form, often financially, is there. That is why it would have been so nice if this case had been closed today, when not only those on the civil side are totally or partially positive, but also those who vote against it, namely the Senterpartiet, SV and the Workers' Party. There are many ways to help new Norwegian businesses, including – in addition to capital. Norway is known for all its forms and bureaucracy, which, especially for new and small enterprises, consumes much of their time and energy — which they could rather spend on the development and production of the company. Many state councils, perhaps all of them, have said that they should do this. But the reduction in this area has rather been minimal and to little help. Another important element is the strange tax burden we have. With a slightly lower and, not least, more flexible system, many start-ups would probably be able to cope. For example, it should. be able to reduce the difference between an individual and a limited liability company. The Progress Party definitely believes that, through a change here, we would get more people to bet on creating their own jobs, with the positive ringing effects this would have. It is true that both the requirement for share capital and the requirement for having an auditor have been reduced – and this is good. The proposals are also old proposals from the Progress Party. For the Progress Party, it is important that support and grant schemes through, for example: Innovation Norway must be nationwide and based on objective award criteria, where it is the good idea that will trigger aid or grant funds. Previous criteria based on sex, type of product or where you live in the country must not be taken into account. The Progress Party believes it is important to have as flexible, efficient and simple a tool system as possible. It is also necessary to assess when the aid is to be granted, how long and when any repayment is to be made. In addition, aid needs to be carefully considered in order not to assist one type of industry rather than other industries, i.e. you don't have to disperse anyone. In this case, this will affect business — instead of helping. Norway is a rich country, and many in Norway have a wealth — large or small — that might help entrepreneurs, but taxically a carrot has to be given in order for this to become a reality. And the thing is a lot about this. A lot of Norwegian businesses are created by entrepreneurs with great faith in a product or a type of service that you think society needs – even perhaps society already has it. This is extra tough for those who want to try out an already established market. I want to say that, for example, Bjørn Kjos and Norwegian are in a special position here. One should perhaps be careful to praise someone in a big debate, but I think you need more like him. People who initially have great faith in their product are willing to take great chances of success – and not only succeed, but succeed even more, that is. grow and compete with the largest. Then the question is, how do we get even more such entrepreneurs? And what can we politicians do to help make this happen? The Progress Party believes that the proposal we are promoting today is just one of several solutions to this, regardless of both small and large entrepreneurs. The Progress Party wants us to vote first on the proposals of the Progress Party, and if this should fall, we support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party in a subsidiary way. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2578	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2581	This proposal raises an important issue, namely the possibility for authorities to facilitate the entry of businesses through the difficult start-up phase. Or, in another way, this is about the pit in the seed phase. Innovation and innovation are what drives Norway in the future. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is important that the state facilitates the start of new innovative and innovative companies. It's just innovation and innovation that is the biggest driver for developing our society. Today we have services and products we could hardly dream of just 30 years ago. We can thank smart entrepreneurs and attentive investors for this. But it is also our job as politicians to ensure that this development continues to flourish. The Christian People's Party believes that value creation is the basis of well-being. We need companies that create values, and we need innovative businesses. That is why I am disappointed that the government parties are not more positive about this proposal. The Christian People's Party believes that business must be built from below, and that the main role of politicians is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods. There is no doubt that the lack of access to capital is one of the barriers to innovation – and thus an obstacle to the development of society. Therefore, the Christian People's Party in our alternative state budget for 2012 prioritises more funding for innovation. We increased support for innovation actions through the BIA, the maintenance of Innovation Furniture, research and technology development in the aquaculture industry, value creation measures in agriculture and seed funds for initial investment – to name a few – so that new projects in small and medium-sized enterprises can be funded. The Christian People's Party also believes that increased investment in research, innovation and good public infrastructure are key success criteria for a value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. The Christian People's Party therefore wants a tax system that facilitates entrepreneurship, innovation and growth in business. Because in the Christian People's Party we have a simple vision: Norway should be the world's most innovative country. Then we have to have legislation, a tax system and an instrument that facilitates innovation and innovation. This is what we will return to when the debate is due to take place in this Chamber on the treatment of the Great Britain Communication on Innovation Norway and SIVA.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2598	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a positive approach to the proposal from the Left. Then we just get to accept that the Right and Christian People's Party does not see that they can go into this proposal for a representative in this round, but that we have a common understanding of this important matter, and that at least it was ‘closed to the protocol’ and not completely rejected. I would like to express my special thanks to the Progress Party, which is promoting our proposal here today. The background to this proposal is that we want to facilitate a diverse and decentralised business that generates value-generating innovation and thereby contributes to economic growth and well-being. It is a strength of Norwegian entrepreneurship that relatively many Nordics are entrepreneurs and small business owners. In fact, Norway has traditionally been one of the countries in the richest part of the world that has scored the highest in starting new business. However, new figures show that the number has decreased significantly in recent years. In particular, the proportion of women entrepreneurs is significantly reduced. Of course, something can be attributed to the financial crisis, as the rapporteur pointed out, but far from it, especially because developments show a completely different direction in comparable countries. Research cooperation The Global Entrepreneurship Monitor monitors the annual entrepreneurial activity in a number of countries. The recent 2011 report shows that 6.9 pst. among the population of Norway were involved in start-up trials or new enterprises last year — against 8.7 pst. in 2008. In previous years, Norway has been at the top of three countries in its group of innovation-driven western economies. Only Iceland and Australia were ahead of Norway in 2010. However, in 2011, Norway was crossed by countries such as the Czech Republic, Greece, Ireland and a number of other countries mentioned in the proposal for a representative. Norway is now located exactly on the average of countries in this category and ranked number 12 of 23. As the table in the draft representative shows, this is a worrying development, as the Left sees it. Norway continues to have more entrepreneurs on the rise in relation to our Nordic neighbours, but in terms of creating new profitable products and services, Norway has much to learn. According to the latest version of Innovation Union Scoreboard, which was published on 7 February 2012, Norway is in 17th place – the same place as in 2010 – and is once again in the category of ‘moderate innovators’. At the top of the table thrones Switzerland, followed by Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Finland, all of which are referred to as ‘innovative leaders’. In particular, the left is concerned with facilitating the conditions for growth companies and companies with potential for growth. In the record year 2008, Norway had almost 5000 of both gas and growth enterprises, while in 2011 the figure was more than half. It's worrying. This means continuing to simplify the daily lives of entrepreneurs, making their everyday lives safer, red tape and simplifying public support schemes, and making public instruments more relevant and entrepreneurial. But first of all, it means that there is a need for a clear lifting and professionalisation of the supply of risk capital and associated competences in order to give entrepreneurs a greater chance of success. There is no absolute shortage of capital in the world’s richest country — rather on the contrary. Nevertheless, risk capital for entrepreneurs and innovation projects is clearly lacking in Norway. The Left therefore proposes a capital reform for value-creating innovation and entrepreneurship. The aim is to facilitate access to risk capital for all entrepreneurs, and in particular for innovative entrepreneurs with ideas and concepts with a high value-creating potential. In addition, the aim is at the same time to facilitate easier and more access to competences, networks, support and advice related to the commercialisation of market innovations, in particular through international efforts. We imagine two main elements of such a capital reform: Increased access to seed and start-up capital for all entrepreneurs – Capital FUNN and business ventures. Increased access to venture capital, targeted for innovative ideas and projects with high value-generating potential. The aim is to make it significantly easier for entrepreneurs to succeed in innovative efforts based on easier access to risk capital and easier access to critical business and commercialisation skills. Although a lot goes well in this country, and we don't have to move far beyond the borders of the country until we see a completely different reality, the Left wants to better facilitate value-generating innovation that thereby contributes to economic growth and well-being. Left votes in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Should that fall against presumptuousness, we shall vote in favour of the Right's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2633	The proposal expresses an ambition and a desire to stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship. It's an ambition that the government shares, and to which we use a lot of resources to stimulate. Innovation Norway has targeted schemes to stimulate entrepreneurship, such as: the establishment grant. In addition, general schemes such as innovation loans are relevant for entrepreneurs with new ideas. In the revised national budget for 2012, the Government proposes to establish up to six new national seed funds. The State will participate by up to 1.5 billion. kr, and private investors with the corresponding. It will result in a total capital injection of up to 3 billion. kr for the management of early stage funds for enterprises. In other words, the government has many instruments aimed at businesses at an early stage. Today’s arrangements also take into account the private initiative, on which the grossing-up representative is involved. This is done by the fact that Innovation Norway does not fully finance the projects, but requires private entrepreneurs, investors or banks to share the risk. It is an important principle to ensure that non-Innovation Norway and the public benefit from the projects and are willing to invest their own money. I also think it is important for those involved to do their utmost to ensure that the project succeeds. A challenge with rights-based schemes is that they can be very expensive for taxpayers, without it being obvious that they bring many more innovative start-ups than those that would have come without the schemes. In the worst case, a tax relief ceiling of NOK 300000 for 50000 enterprises may amount to EUR 15 billion. kr in annual proceeds, without it being obvious that there are many more innovative start-ups. Public subsidisation of private investment can also contribute to tax adjustment. It is unclear how the proposal will deal with non-taxable entrepreneurs and whether it can favour entrepreneurs who have a fortune to place at the expense of those who are dependent on loans and who will thus not receive equivalent tax deductions. More capital can solve many challenges, but not all. The representative himself is concerned with what he calls a paradox, that there is little risk capital available to entrepreneurs, although there is no total lack of capital. At the same time, he points out that many founders are poorly developed. When many founders are poorly developed, it may not be so strange that you are struggling with funding. In the worst case scenario, tax subsidies will lead to better funding for poorly developed projects without improving the quality of the projects. To make it more attractive to become an entrepreneur in Norway, we need to be concerned about making it easy to start and operate in Norway. In that area, the government has done a lot. As from the financial year 2011, small limited liability companies may opt out of the audit of their annual accounts. It is one of the largest simplification measures ever and provides substantial administrative relief for small companies. By the end of 2011, 48 000 limited liability companies had notified the Brønnøysund Registers that they wanted to make use of this possibility. The minimum share capital requirement has been reduced from 100000 to 30000 for limited liability companies. The share capital injected into the limited liability company shall be capable of being used to cover the costs of formation of the limited liability company, such as: in the case of expenditure for the assistance of the lawyer and auditor at the Foundation. Norwegian regulation of the business environment is generally good. No later than today, we received news that Norway had climbed five places to an international ranking of countries in which it is good to operate — from a 13th place to an 8th place. We claim well, both in comparison with trading partners and with competitors. The World Bank compares countries along a number of indicators, where business-friendly regulation is a country. Again, Norway is doing very well. We're not going to rest on the laurels even though we're doing very well in Norway compared to all of our neighboring countries. We will have ambitious objectives for innovation, for innovation, for establishment, for growth, and also for simplification and work to improve the conditions for starting, developing and operating business in Norway. That ambition fully shares the government's ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2654	It is created approx. 50000 new enterprises in Norway each year. Unfortunately, it is only approx. one third of these survive after the first five years. The big question is why so many as approx. 70 pst. of the new holdings disappear during the first five-year period. The Progress Party has many of the answers to this, but it would be interesting to hear the government's reasons and answers as to why so many disappear. It is clear that when so many disappear during a five-year period, there must be something that does not work. Of course, there can be a lot of things. But something else that is also worth noting is that those who survive often remain small, they do not evolve much further. This does not create new jobs either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2659	We will probably not get under the chair that one reason for the disappearance of very many start-ups is that the basis for the company is not there, either because you have an inefficient production process, or because you simply sell something that there is not enough demand for – to ensure a profitable operation. It's kind of good, because it's an expression that there's a lot more people trying to do than what it's supposed to do, and it's a proof of imaginative wealth and willingness to do what we need. It does not have to be that trying and failing is perceived as a negative. It is often the case that those who have succeeded in creating large, successful businesses have tried a few times on things that have not been so successful. But then it's about making those who have the right to life get good growth opportunities. We do this not only through capital injection, through simplification and by facilitating different grant schemes, but also through a growth phase, for example. has strengthened Investinor by 1.5 billion. kr, to keep track of the most successful enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2666	In this case, the majority of the population has, in a sense, been a control mechanism in order not to spend the money of the state – or tax subsidies on private capital – on projects that may be uncertain or that may be poor. It is an effective and rapid control mechanism. Now, the Council of State itself has highlighted a great deal of what is otherwise granted — through Innovation Norway, for grants and skills building and what it should be. Does the Council of State think that we have equal transparency in the appropriations, which can prevent the proper use of public capital, which is also the taxpayers' money, and that we are preventing the bad projects – also there – in a sufficient way? When you read the notice of Innovation Norway, it is not very clear, really.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2671	I think it is a little important to separate these support schemes from the stage at which the enterprise is operating. I believe that at a very early stage, the threshold for getting support should be quite low – bureaucracy should be quite small, application forms and reporting should be simple, and the amounts should be quite low, so that many people have an opportunity. As support systems become more advanced, the amount of aid increases and the company becomes more mature, I think you need to have a more critical eye on the amounts of aid given. An important, fundamental principle, I believe, is a shared risk. When private bets are their own money, the probability that this is something interesting to go after is greater than if there's free money from the state. It may also stimulate extra efforts. However, the objective of the Innovation Norway Communication is to simplify the number of support systems, the support system itself and application and reporting procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2678	In my post, I pointed out that the proportion of women entrepreneurs in particular is significantly reduced. In several contexts, the Left has proposed a number of social arrangements and rights for entrepreneurs. Is the Council of State as concerned as the Left about the fact that it now seems as if there are fewer women who want to bet on start-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2685	It is true that women are under-represented among entrepreneurs and in business in general. Women have a high level of professional participation in Norway, and it is a strong desire that we also give women a greater role both as entrepreneurs and in business. Therefore, in 2008, the government launched a separate action plan for increasing entrepreneurship among women. The aim is that the proportion of new entrepreneurs – i.e. the female proportion – should be 40 pst. by 2013. The objective is followed by a number of concrete actions. One of these measures is to strengthen welfare schemes for self-employed people, including: entitlement to maternity and parental benefits. It provides increased social protection, which we know stimulates both men and women, but perhaps especially women to establish their own business. That action plan is to be followed up, and we share the ambition to get more women entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2690	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2695	There were some who were somewhat surprised that the government parties did not agree to the proposal, or at least agreed to a decision that the matter should be annexed to the protocol. I will try to justify it, but first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good and nuanced first post. There is a clear issue related to the proposal put forward by the Left – as was said here – by the fact that there is a high risk of getting into a situation where a tax subsidy makes bad projects or bad ideas. I want to underline just very briefly: we are always looking for good support arrangements for the good ideas. We're always looking for good schemes for companies that are small and that can have a growth power in them. We are looking for good capital supply arrangements, together with the private ones, towards the Norwegian business community. That is why, in the revised national budget, we have provided two nationwide seed funds. So we're very concerned about that proposal as a problem issue, but we're not for the solutions. It is then wrong to attach the proposal to the protocol in this context. But – as I underlined: there is a lot that is very good in Norway. In the first quarter of 2012, more than 7000 new limited liability companies were established. It was then stated in the Financial Newspaper – not exactly a partisan – that Giske’s actions work. This is an expression that Norwegian industry is doing quite well. In these debates, where we are looking for further improvements, I think we should take into account that there is a great deal that is good in this country in terms of opportunities for both start-up and business. There is no – let us say – rejection of the issues that have led the government parties to conclude that the proposal is not accepted, on the contrary, it is that we do not believe in exactly the measure proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2708	Only in the final analysis – before likely many will do more festive things – will the chairman of the committee claim here that it will be completely wrong to attach this protocol. If you go back and see how Stortinget handles these kinds of things where there are good intentions, but where it is impossible to vote for the material – for the realities – I really think it was a little strange excuse you came along to not have been allowed to join in and attach this protocol. It's definitely just a shade. I don't think it would ever be used against anyone. At least I don't see anyone coming to the right and saying that now you've committed yourself to a pile of billions in the next budget – we don't have that at all. That's exactly what I've been saying here, saying we don't have. I understand that Aasland needs to praise what is going on in Norwegian business – there are many reasons for doing so in a number of areas – but also read the NHO’s economics barometer today, which may rather be a bit daunting about parts of the business. I wish that, instead of saying that it is wrong to promote such a proposal or to vote in favour of it, it would rather have been considered stronger to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2719	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2726	We are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2931	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2941	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e2993	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3003	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3011	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1 sounds: «In the Road Law of 21 June 1963 no. 23 is amended as follows: § 27 and § 27a are deleted. II This law shall enter into force from the time of the king's decision.' Alternatively, this proposal shall be replaced by the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3131	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3144	The Committee shall then vote against the position of the Committee on II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3154	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3164	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide in the relevant regulations that the conditions of the application by municipalities and county councils for time-differentiated tolls shall be taken into account in the final determination of tariff structure and other conditions if time-differentiated tolls are permitted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3187	During the debate, Mr Sortevik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size approves the development of Tresfjordbrua and the Wågstrandstunnel at E136 in Møre and Romsdal as described in Prop. [[2011-2012]] 80 S and with full State funding. The size requires State progress if it is necessary to keep the planned progress and that final government funding decisions are incorporated into the revised state budget for 2012.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case for the dimensioning of new roads on both the county road network and the national road network.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3212	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3229	During the debate, Susanne Bratli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:100 S [[2011-2012]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3249	The President makes it clear that it is the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the vote. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3268	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 4 and 5, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the legislation so that parking companies have to comply more closely with the rates of fees and additional charges laid down in the regulation on public parking and parking charges.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to review complaint procedures for parking fines and, if necessary, to establish general guidelines ensuring independence in the appeal proceedings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3303	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to lay down rules for the imposition of parking fines, where short exceedance of time results in low fines and where the fine increases proportionally according to the length of the vehicle’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to lay down rules for the imposition of parking tickets, where maximum fines are not allowed if the parking rules/marking are indicated slightly.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to lay down rules so that parking can be paid on arrears without fines in special cases, such as in cases of acute need for hospital services and the like.’ The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3337	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Swedish Government to take up the Swedish monitoring of Norwegian citizens under the FRA Act with the Swedish authorities and, if necessary, bring the matter before the European Court of Justice.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3367	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right Party and the Christian Party, which reads: ‘Document 8:56 S [[2011-2012]] The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Left will now subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3466	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2013, to propose a capital reform ensuring increased access to seed and start-up capital for all entrepreneurs, the establishment of a ‘company stock exchange’ and increased access to venture capital targeted at innovative ideas and projects with a high value-creating potential.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3496	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2 from the right hand and from the Christian people, saying, ‘Document 8:78 S [[2011-2012]] The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Left will now subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-31.ana.ud1410e3557	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
