ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e26	The representatives of Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Truls Wickholm, Øyvind Waksdal, Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa and Ingrid Heggo, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by Mr Dagfinn Højbrätten, on leave on 7 and 8 November, to take part, as Chairman of the GAVI Vaccination Fund, in meetings in Myanmar from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Åse Michaelsen on 7 and 8 November in order to take part in the election observation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly at the Presidential elections in the United States of America by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 8 November to 12 November in order to take part in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly's autumn session in Prague; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the Western Agder province: Tor Sigbjørn Aussogn 7.-8. November For Nordland County: Allan Johansen 8 November For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen 7-8. November
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e89	Tor Sigbjørn Utsognogn and Kjell Arvid Svendsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e108	The Stortinge received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the councillors Bård Vegar Solhjell, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e115	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. Security for individuals and for society as such are fundamental values for the Progress Party. For us, it's important that you have good systems that work when you need them. The Yard Commission has shown us to the degrees that Norway has challenges even in areas where we thought we were quite good. What we need to get things in place is undoubtedly action – action to follow up the things and the recordings made by the Commission. Here the government has a big challenge that I expect you to have a desire and a plan to follow up. Any measure that can contribute to increasing security is necessary and should and must be followed up as we see it. On 26 October, almost two weeks ago, the fishing boat “Kamaro” went down. There was a need to get the crew on board – 14 men. Those who were responsible for doing this job were the defense at the 330s quadron. The challenge this day was that the helicopters were not available on Banak because there were no technical conditions that made them not work. That meant you had to get help from a helicopter from Bristow, which is initially stationed in Hammerfest. It is also a SAR machine that is part of the area preparedness up there in connection with the activity. The challenge, as the Progress Party sees it, is that we have to have systems in place when the public fails, as it did this time. People all over our coast put their trust in the rescue service to work, regardless of who does the job. The important thing is to get help. Then is my question to the Council of State: Does the Council of State believe that today's rescue helicopter preparedness is fully satisfactory, and can the Council of State thus guarantee that it will not lead to, in the worst case, the loss of human life?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e128	I very much agree with the representative Ellingen that with regard to the Yurv Commission and all the measures that were pointed out there, we need to learn from it and follow it up. It's also been done, really. Some of the measures proposed there were followed up before the Commission presented its report. Still, we're going to be very humble about all the things that are pointed out, all the vulnerabilities that we, after all, have in our society. We have a very demanding country to be prepared for because it's long-term, it's scattered population. Nevertheless, we have tried to set up our entire emergency services in a way that allows us to catch it. With regard to the rescue helicopter service in particular, the representative Ellingen is very aware that, although it is carried out by the Defence Department, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for this service. Generally, there are two helicopters on Banak. We know that these are helicopters that also need extensive maintenance, and for various reasons this preparedness was not sufficient at that time. But those who were on the fishing boat were rescued by a civil helicopter and a Lynx helicopter. So the rescue operation went really well, but it's clearly a reminder that when something happens, we can be vulnerable because it's not always that you have helicopters where you need it at all times. It will always, no matter how much you do, be a constraint on what you can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e137	I note that the Council of State does not respond to her opinion that the rescue helicopter service is fully satisfactory, but I will leave that to me. On the other hand, I want to point out a different relationship. Of course, the Council of State is quite right when she says that it is the Ministry of Justice that has the formal responsibility. But I expect the government as a college to discuss this together. The process of the rescue helicopter acquisition is quite interesting. On 16 May 2002, we had the big debate in this Chamber on the premises for that. It was then intended to acquire new helicopters by 2007–08. It's been ten years, and we still haven't drawn any conclusions. Now I assume that in the worst case it will go ten more years before things are in place. If we look at how the offshore operators are doing, they have requirements for their own area preparedness, including rescue helicopters. When they cancel a contract, it is estimated that two years will elapse between the contract and the work. Why does the government not make the same demands on itself and its responsibilities as it does on other actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e150	I have to remind you once again that with regard to the acquisition process of new rescue helicopters, it is in the Ministry of Justice, and it is the Minister of Justice who is right to answer that question. But of course, the government as a college is concerned that we should have new rescue helicopters, and the process for it is in progress. I am very familiar with the long process, but the process is underway, and I believe that this question has to be asked to the Minister of Justice and Defence. I am very concerned about the helicopters we are going to have, which have not arrived within the time we have decided. The responsibility and concern I may have with helicopters in relation to my responsibilities is that they have not come into the condition and with the quality that they should have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e157	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and it is given occasion – first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e160	I've been informed that a lifetime extension of the Sea King is being considered until 2023. This means that some machines have to be removed for a longer period of time for larger maintenance. I've also been made aware that you consider putting in Bell helicopters as a temporary replacement, and you do that, you get a helicopter that has a much weaker rescue capacity, that performs a worse service, and that's just as old. I need to know if there is truth in what I have heard. I am now asking the Council of State to confirm that it is appropriate to use Bell helicopters as a temporary substitute for the Sea King.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e169	It is that all helicopters will be able to be used as a resource; you have to see it in a context. So the question is, what are you going to use it for? It is absolutely right that a Bell helicopter and a Sea King are very different – in size, not least, and in capacity, as the representative of Korsberg says. So the Bell helicopters, as the representative knows, have been used for rescue missions, especially in Afghanistan. They can be used to some extent and can be used as an additional resource, but that's not what you're putting on the rescue helicopter service. It is the Sea King helicopters that are going to be operational, and thanks to the fact that we have incredibly good logistics systems and good workshops, they manage to maintain these Sea King helicopters in a very good way too. But this is something the government is working on, as I said, to put in place new rescue helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e178	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e181	Not quite unexpectedly, the Council of State used a kind of different language to the question from the representative Ellingsen, that this is not her table. And that could be a good explanation. But now the government in its eighth year in charge of rescue, for preparedness, for the purchase of helicopters also to the Defense, for which the Minister of Defence is definitely responsible. You have a top modern marine defense, you have a coastguard who now sails without its most important instrument, which makes it almost debilitated. When do you need a backup? When are you going to decide what is going to be the future of the Maritime Defense and Coast Guard, by having their most important instruments in place and doing nothing but to blame everyone else; it's another department? So in the case of helicopter purchases, you owe it to the supplier. What kind of purchasing skills are you sitting on in the department that fail so disastrously on these vital questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e187	It has taken too long to put in place the NH-90 helicopters that the defense is waiting for. We wait for 14 helicopters – 8 to the Coast Guard, 6 to the frigates. The frigates have never had helicopters, so there's going to be an extra, new capacity, but it's clear that for the Coast Guard it's important to have helicopters. This is difficult because the defense has made very strict, special demands on the helicopters we're going to have. At the same time, the helicopters that could have been purchased as shelf goods do not meet these requirements exactly. So the NH-90 with the specifications that the Defense has given is what the Defense really wants, and is what you think meets the Defence's needs. Then there have been great delays, which are not acceptable. This has also happened to a number of other countries. That's not good enough. But we're doing the best we can to put these helicopters in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e196	Hans Olav Syversen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e199	I would assume that whether you are in the Justice and Defence Department or in the Ministry of Defence, there are some thoughts about how we have landed – literally – where we are. Or rather, we haven't landed yet in the case of helicopters, for neither one sector nor the other, so I listened very carefully after the Council of State had to describe the reason. And as far as I know, it depends on the demands you have made and on suppliers that cannot deliver. My question is: has the government, as a college and the Minister of Defence, identified what the reason for this is that we are in arrears – and what do you intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e206	In the case of the NH-90 helicopters, which the defense is waiting for, we have been delivered one in December 2011. We're waiting to get another delivery in the next few weeks. It should have been delivered four this year. So it's so that the first delay was related to the development of these helicopters. This is a development project that Norway has been involved with many other countries, but we have a slightly different configuration on the helicopter and perhaps also construction on parts of the helicopter than some other countries. So the first delay has been related to the development of the helicopter. When you finally get it, the delay has been linked to the lack of quality. The defense is not willing to accept helicopters that do not keep quality. That's what we're dealing with the supplier. And then we might have to look at other options if this doesn't now prove to be [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e211	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e214	In June, a new climate settlement was concluded in Stortinget. Right-wing motivation for reconciliation with government parties was that concrete actions were needed to contribute to real emission reductions. Climate change communication had been postponed over and over again, and when it finally arrived, there was a significant need for concrete action. For the Right, it was also essential that we obtain results in the climate agreement that would be significant as early as 2013. When the Right settles with the government parties, we expect them to be serious. Unfortunately, the government parties disappoint the first major test: the state budget for 2013. A number of important points from the agreement have not been followed up. This applies, for example: the decision to establish support schemes from 2013 and other instruments to contribute to phase-out of fossil oil firing in 2020. It is also clear from the wording that these are measures in addition to the SBA that Enova can obtain under current legislation. But the government has not followed up on other important points either. This applies, for example: the introduction of an energy efficiency improvement target – Norway is currently the only country in Europe without such a target – and plans to trigger significant energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion in private households. There are increased appropriations for research centres for environmentally friendly energy, for the establishment of a new research centre for geothermal energy, and for the assessment of the possibilities for developing a CO2 value chain in Norway. My question to the Council of State is simply: why has the government not followed up the climate agreement on these important points, and is this an expression that Erik Solheim is right when he says to TV 2 that the sitting party leadership in SV has contributed to a strong downplay of environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e228	A very important climate settlement was concluded in June here in Stortinget between six of the parties. The agreement will be followed up by the government further, because it will be at the heart of climate policy towards 2020. I expect that it will be followed up by the opposition in the same way. That is why the state budget contained an unusually large number of strengthenings on the climate side that were in line with the climate agreement that had been concluded. On the base, the CO2 charge was increased in line with the climate agreement, the reward scheme was strengthened in line with the climate agreement, and it was an extensive railway effort that was strengthened in the climate agreement, in line with it. Climate research was strengthened by between 40 and 50 million. kr, in addition to a row of other larger and smaller points. I could also have added the Technology Fund. It was in line with the climate agreement. Then, in addition, the climate agreement contains a number of things to be done by 2020, but there is nothing specific about it in the state budget for 2020, and the representative certainly knows that the distance between the climate deal and when the state budget was created is less than two months. An energy efficiency improvement target in barley shall come in 2012. We're still in 2012. We are fully aware of what the climate agreement says about it. Research centres need to be strengthened – we are fully aware of this. We're going to provide assessments of a value chain for CO2 – we're fully aware of that. That and other things will therefore be followed up further. But I think it's important for the Right to be aware that it doesn't stop now. It was the beginning we got to see in the budget, and there will be more on other issues for the Stortinget that are in line with the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e243	Of course, I am satisfied with the points of the climate agreement that the government has chosen to follow up. What I am not satisfied with is what they have not chosen to follow up. The challenge here is that, for example: in the case of aid for phase-out of fossil energy in households, the government states that it has followed up the point in the climate agreement. But the reality is, if you read the setting and if you're familiar with the content of the conversations that were under the climate agreement, then you can't be in doubt that that point hasn't been followed up. The same applies to CO2 value chain, where the government has a summary review of the state budget of what is done in the capture and storage of CO2 on a general basis and calls it the assessment requested by the climate agreement. This is obviously not a follow-up to the specific point that was in the climate agreement. So the government doesn't do what the Big One has asked for, and that's what's the challenge here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e254	I have to say that I'm reacting to this a little bit, because I think it's going to be demanding for us to continue working together on the climate deal if you're going to throw yourself over allegations of breaking and missing follow-up before there's any examples that you can beat up and hit the table with. On those points where we found some money to come in the budget, I ask that it be shown to one of those who have not been followed up exactly. Yeah, there was actually one that wasn't exactly followed up, and that's that there's been a little bit more money at a point than what it was put up to, that's when it was about the reward scheme, there were a few million more because of a rounding. Otherwise it's followed up to the point and the dot. But there is a lot in the climate agreement that are complex, long-term issues that we are working on, for example. energy efficiency improvement in barley, with very ‘eighte’ deadlines and demanding issues, and not least phase-out of fossil fuel firing towards 2020. It's a very exciting task. We've solved her, and we're going to work with her and many of the other questions in the future. But when it comes to following up the budget, we have to wait: Yes to what we have promised. Other things we have to work on in a thorough and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e261	Four follow-up questions are raised – first from Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e264	I'm sorry if the Right gets a little too busy with progress and results on national climate work, but I would have thought that the Council of State party was too. But I understand that then you might be a little bit in the back. With regard to the goal of energy efficiency improvement, we hear that the Council of State says it will come in 2012. That's good. We've been asking for this for many years, and we're very pleased that we got it in place in the climate agreement. What would have been natural was to present this as a package in the state budget of instruments. But I hope – and look forward to – that this goal will be presented. My question and my challenge to the Council of State relate to some rumors that one might have a more qualitative than quantitative energy efficiency improvement target. I hope the Council of State here can confirm that, like the other European countries, we have a quantitatively measurable verifiable goal of energy efficiency in buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e274	The first thing I want to say about rumors is that as a general rule, there should be no faith in them, at least not the magnificence representatives who are going to make decisions, but stick to what eventually comes from the government. So on progress: it's very, very good if we've now got a Right that seems to have a high rate of implementation of climate action at the top of the list, and that two months is way too long. But the settlement was concluded in mid-June. As the representative may be aware, or at least would be aware if the Right would once come into government in the future, the negotiations on the State budget were concluded at the end of August or the transition to September. It's very short time. That's why our main priority was the exact follow-up to everything that was promised, and that had to be in the budget. When it comes to larger complex things that are going to be distributed, and that it's going to work on, it makes sense that we're doing a thorough job, but as quickly as possible, and that's what we're working on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e281	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e284	As I assume the Council of State is fully aware, the research has shown in particular in recent years that the temperature increase has flattened after the year 2000. We have now also received the same kind of conclusions from Norwegian climate researchers at the University of Oslo. It's a fact. Of course, this is something that cannot be attributed to the climate agreement, both from the time it has been allowed to work, and of course also because the CO2 emissions increase faster than you had assumed. Then I would like to ask the Council of State whether there might not be any reason to put a little bond on itself in terms of the most extreme measures to be taken in climate policy and resulting from the climate agreement. I am thinking in particular of passive house requirements, the large investments to be made in Mongstad with full-scale cleaning, etc. Shouldn't you think about it now before implementing major, heavy measures that will hit people the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e294	The climate agreement does not follow extreme measures, but many necessary and tough measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and internationally. The research referred to here is among others: a Norwegian researcher who has made a report that, if he is correct, is very positive, that the warming of the globe and the accumulation of CO2 in the atmosphere is somewhat slower than one has believed, which in turn increases the chance that we can actually reach the two-degree goal – with which we are extremely in a hurry. As he and others have progressed, there is in no way such that it cast doubt on the reality of global warming due to man-made climate change, but that we might hope for it. There's no confirmed findings, there's other research that suggests the opposite, but it's exciting and important research. Finally, let me say: I would like to go to CICERO, the Mountain Centre or the Polar Institute, for example, with the representative Amundsen, look at me on the school bench in front of the climate scientists and ask them to update us in the last picture. I think we could both benefit from that -- at least one of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e304	The President must remember that there is at least a limited quota in terms of speaking time, and it is limited to 1 minute. The President requests that that time be respected. Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e309	Sometimes it's a little wonder when one hears such discussions, because when one thinks back to June when we were working on the climate deal, at least the Christian People's Party's experience was that we had received a climate message that actually left the ambitions quite low. Then we went together in the opposition, pushed, and managed to lift the ambitions at least a little bit. As Astrup had in mind, we did it because we thought there were some measures that were important to implement, and then we wanted to raise the ambitions of the government. The actions we set targets to be implemented from 2013 had, frankly, I would have expected to come in 2013. The councils asked for examples, and I can quote when it came to phasing out oil fires, which we decided to ban from 2020. I Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 it stated: ‘This requires support schemes from 2013 and other instruments for a transitional period.’;» As Astrup was in, it involves more than today's order. In the agreement with Enova, the government writes that the funds can be financed, in all the other points they write they are to finance. To me it seems very passive. Is the Council willing to agree to lift the aid schemes to phase out oil fires?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e325	The ambitions that were in the climate announcement, i.e. the size of the cuts we're going to have – collect and in Norway – were high and otherwise they're the same as in the climate agreement. But some important and positive new tools came into the agreement, and there were also some points of distribution that we're working on now. Then I will certainly insist that we have followed up everything we have said in connection with what is going to be in the 2013 budget – what it is going to do. There are aid schemes for phasing out oil fires through Enova today, and there are increased possibilities for this in the new agreement. However, it does not exclude that we should continue to work with potential new schemes and assess what is needed to achieve that goal. On the contrary, there is an important work being done by the government. The budget that came two months later contains everything I promised, but many of those things have to be followed up more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e332	Borghild Tenden - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e335	Now I'm going to ask you a little bit more about the future. The Council of State mentioned the reward scheme in its response to the representative Nikolai Astrup and boasted of it. One central part of the negotiations on the climate agreement was that results would be more focused on the distribution of the rewards. It also says the evaluation report on the government’s table. Will the civilised cities finally have their fair share when the new funds are to be distributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e342	One might get the impression that today the cities are paid according to who controls them, while in the future the result is counted. That's not correct. It is paid today according to how they achieve some goals, results, and tools used. One of the themes we discussed in the climate agreement was precisely the question of target achievement. The message says that one should focus more on the results ahead. Of course, it's going to be followed up, especially in connection with another important thing that's in the message of the agreement, namely that in the future we'll see a transition from the reward scheme to what we're talking about as urban packages, where a more collective look at the transport systems around the big cities and promote a policy that results in more collective transport and reduced CO2 emissions. We're going to look at how we're going to develop further. It's worth noting that already today it's the way cities that do it well, get significant coverage, something Trondheim is the foremost example of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e352	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e356	The Minister for the Environment can stand still, because I have another important environmental issue that I want to address, namely a local environmental issue and poison remediation of the seabed. It's one thing that we've had big goals for. I can agree with the Council of State that the objectives of the government are often good, but that is the follow-up and the means to get that to the problem. Before, a few years ago, it wasn't the same emission requirements that we luckily have today. This means that in many fjords around the country there have been significant toxic emissions that have fallen on the seabed. The councils are well-known that when bigger boats in particular run, they get twisted up, micro-organisms come up and they get eaten, they come up in the food chain, and the fish eat it. Now it has gone so far that the Food Authority warns against eating fish and crustaceans from dozens of fjords around the country. That is why we received a separate message. The government made a separate message about the matter, and had great ambitions to clean up several fjords. Nevertheless, we feel that it was allocated 158 million for 2010. kr, while for 2013 it is only a target of 58 million. NOK – so one third of what you had in 2010. In the proposition, the government says that the background to the decline has been that there have not been projects completed, but now, after three years, the projects have been completed, and, as the government itself writes, from 2012 several of the projects for the remediation of contaminated sea water have been finalised and decisions implemented locally with local sub-financing, so that the implementation phase can begin. Harstad, Ranfjorden, Trondheim, Ålesund, Sandalsfjorden. Bergen, Sørfjorden, Stavanger, Flekkefjord, Farsund, Fedafjorden, Arendal, Sandefjord, Drammen etc., etc. – there are lots of projects that are waiting and that depend on large sums. 58 million. kr is just a drop in the ocean, it doesn't last to clean up. My question is, can the Council of State explain to me the relationship between the major needs and the decline in appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e367	It is quite right, as the representative says, that the action plan we have for cleaning up the contaminated seabed is incredibly important – important for natural disasters in many of the fjords. We've also had examples of cities with dietary advice as another good argument to do a clean-up. It has also been carrying out important projects in a number of cities. Kristiansand, Oslo, and Tromsø are examples of this. Harstad, if I am not mistaken, started in 2012, will continue in 2013 and have the means to do so. Then, this year, there are some changes in the structure of the budget that mean that the total amount of clean-up work in 2013 is about. 65 million. kr, while no, in 2012, is 64 million. So it's going to be the same amount. It's going to cover a lot of important work on cleaning up our fjords, but it's absolutely right that it will require increased permissions for the years to come, to implement some of the larger projects. Trondheim is one example, where there is an acute and important need to get started, and where the local decision has been taken. I will give priority to getting things going in the years to come, but there will be no funds for all of this in the 2013 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e374	I would like to thank you for a positive and timely response. It's like I say, I've felt that the intentions of the government have been good, I just see that there will be great challenges in implementing – if not all, I understand that there are no funds for – more projects. That is why I am pleased with the attendance. I also saw that the Climate and Pollution Directorate, which manages the regime for the government, was very clear in its letter to the government that it was important to put in place government funding, precisely because the municipalities that are now working on the matter will have the predictability that they will know that there will also be government funding, and that they will choose to grant large funds. It's a big economic boost for the municipalities, so one needs that interaction, also committed over a long period of time. But the Climate and Pollution Directorate also says that for the years to come, it is important that Harstad be lifted. Maybe one can get another one or two ports, but that's it. There's 17 listed here, and many more are. With the positive attendance I ask the Council of State if he is willing to give the Red-Greens on the Stortinget room for action to discuss whether there is anything we can move on here to increase the appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e383	I'm going to stick to the description of how important this is, but I want to make it clear that it's done a lot in this area in the last few years. Quite expensive, heavy cleanups in some Norwegian cities have been carried out, others are continuing now. But then there are some cities in the future with considerable needs, and I'm going to include them in the further budgetary work as an important area. It's also something I think it's a big local commitment to get to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e388	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e391	It is a little strange to see that the Council of State so much acknowledges the needs, while the signals in the state budget are so defensive. The appropriations have been cut over two years and the mandate given to enter into new commitments is only 25 million. kr, which does not reach one of the projects that matter here. I also want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on the relationship with the allies you have in these cleanups – municipalities and other actors who are actually going to be with and pay. Trondheim Municipality has been operating and planning projects in the inner port and cleaning up in Trondheimsfjorden for ten years. After ten years of planning, you see a government that almost doesn't have the power to produce a fraction of what's necessary. What kind of signals does the Council of State see sending to the municipalities that have been planning, and how will he clean up those signals to get the projects implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e398	First of all, a considerable amount of work has been done in this area in the last few years by the red-green government. These include: the reason that there have been very high permissions some years. A big message has been provided, and an action plan has been created that will be implemented in many cities in Norway now. But at the same time, there is a great need in the future. And then it's like making a government budget means prioritizing a range of different, important relationships. And it was comprehensive and major, important issues that were implemented both in the Ministry of Environment’s budget this year – we had a growth of 11 pst. in the budget, it is exceptionally strong — and a great deal of environmental policy in other departments’ budgets — its Minister for Development, its Minister for Oil and Energy and its Minister for Transport, this time. But we found room for 65 million. NOK – i.e. a continuation of the amount – for cleaning in ports. So I know that there will be a need for more in the years to come, and that's why I'm so easily answering here that: Yes, we're forced to prioritize further! But there was no prioritisation of a rise in that particular area this year, in competition with many other important fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e403	Poisoning in the seabeds is important, and it has been mentioned several examples here. We know that a project called OPTICAP in More and Romesdal – linked to Fischerstrand Verft, where one has had large emissions of TBT and heavy metal after ships – has been carried out. There is a layer of lime and activated carbon over the acidic bottom sediment. This is a way to solve these problems, which have been done in collaboration with the Norwegian Research Council, the NGI, the NIVA and the SFT. We also know that exploding these bottoms causes one to spread a lot of these heavy metals across a large area. It's also part of the problem, as well as it's very expensive to address this pollution. How do state councils view this type of project, and how are these types of projects being followed up in order to apply these options?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e410	I have to admit that I do not know the specific project – the example that the representative Grimstad here uses. I almost have to look at that a little bit more closely. On a general basis, I am busy that what we do with cleaning should be on a professionally sound basis. We need to pay close attention to the issues – because there are serious and big questions, with risks involved – and implement them in the way that professionals recommend, and leave it a professional question as to which method a user uses. Then I might have to come back to the specific example.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e415	It's tempting to quote Erik Solheim again, but I won't. For the Council of State speaks for this in such a good way that it will be unnecessary. The Council of State says that considerable work has been done. It is true, but at the same time, the KLIF action area overview shows that none of the areas have been completed. Of the 19 areas included in the action plan, none have been completed. So it's set at 58 million. or 65 million. kr – depending on the item you look at in the budget. That's good and good, but the state's share of cleaning up in Trondheimsfjorden alone in 2013 is 50 million. kr. It says that there is no money at all to deal with any of the other, and quite acute, issues that are both in Norwegian ports and fairway managers, as the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has also pointed out. KLIF is completely crystal clear in its recommendation to the government that more money should be allocated. And yet the government is cutting for the third consecutive year. Is that justifiable?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e424	There is still a major need for remediation in Norwegian ports and fjords. A lot has been done, but one must strengthen the permissions for years to come, because there are still major needs that I have answered several times now. We're going to go on with a $65 million promise. kr. With that, we get to do a lot of important work in many places. But it says that much needs. We have prioritised many other heavy environmental efforts in the budget, including: the ones we discussed here a short time ago. In addition, I will give high priority to cleaning up Norwegian fjords. I'm sure Erik Solheim would agree with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e430	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e433	I'll have to ask the Minister for Development a question. Governments have made redistribution in developing countries an important issue. I would be allowed to say that I believe in what Norway can achieve by means of aid seems to be considerably exaggerated and not necessarily based on knowledge or experience. But if the Council of State, as I understand it, wants to do something that will actually have an effect – especially in relation to global distribution – he should look at how we can promote business and infrastructure, such as. energy, thus creating jobs and the basis for tax revenue, which can be used again to have something to distribute. For the poorest countries — the least developed countries — there is little to be gained. First, growth must be created. The Progress Party – usually together with both the Right and the Christian People's Party – has for several years proposed putting in place a fund where we take a share of the State pension fund abroad to invest just like this in the poorest countries. We experience this being ignored, rejected, voted down every year. So the question to the Council of State is whether this government's view of global distribution is only political rhetoric or whether the means to be used in the poorest countries should only have an explicit aid agenda, where a business focus, an infrastructure focus, is not this government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e444	I want to thank you for the question. I honestly believe that working for fair distribution in the world is not only important for the rich and the poor countries of the world, but also within the developing countries. I would like to stress that on both of these points the Progress Party is failing. They fail in terms of transfers from rich countries to poor countries. There are only five countries in the world that keep their promises of giving 0.7 pst. aid to the poorest countries in the world. I'm going to give you 1 pst. assistance, and we have a desire to continue doing so in the years to come. The Progress Party will cut its aid dramatically, they have promised it in every budget. They thus fail in the work of redistribution from the rich part of the world to the poor part of the world. In terms of domestic distribution, I did not hear Morten Höglund say that he actually wanted to divide within the rich and the poor. For example, if we look at Norway, the Progress Party wants to remove the property tax. It will contribute to the distribution of the poor to the richest, because one will have to cut in other areas. It increases the differences. I'm busy reducing the differences. There is good reasoning and good evidence that reducing the differences between people promotes trust – promotes development. So the Progress Party says that economic growth is enough – the most important thing is to do something for economic growth. I would say, no, documentation from more and more countries in the world and from research institutes shows that growth is important. But without good redistribution mechanisms in the poor countries, we will not be able to distribute. We're dedicated to contributing to growth. We do it by making sure that we invest, among other things. through Norfund, increase investment through Norfund. We do it by investing in energy. But we are concerned that without achieving a fair distribution policy, we will not be able to eliminate poverty either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e453	Here it is a very strong rhetoric and political slogans and belief that aid solves the challenges. When it comes to our alternate budget, we're going to keep to the 0.7%, so let's not do that. But you have to have growth to have something to distribute. Distribution is good and important, but what the government does through a highly protectionist trade policy — excluding and using parts of the State pension fund abroad actively against the poorest countries — is to maintain a two-part world. The rhetoric does not match practice - terrain and maps do not match. The government must think completely in its policy. It means a changed non-protectionist trade policy, and that means using the strongest instrument we have, namely the investments we can make through our oil fund in the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e458	I agree that it is important to make sure that investment is made in the poorest countries, and that is why we are increasing, among other things. Norfund's investment of over 1 billion. kr per year, so we have totaled over 11 billion. to invest in the coming years. In the area of trade, it is right to say that our government twice during the years in which we have been in government, has ensured that the conditions for the poorest countries are strengthened by importing food and other products — among other things, we have. zero duty for a good part of the poorest countries. I believe that the aim of trade policy must be to turn the half of our food that we import – and other things that we import – from the richest countries, like the EU, to some of the poorer countries. So I want to say one more thing that's absolutely crucial: it's not right that you have to have growth, and then you can think about distribution afterwards. If you don't think about distribution first, you'll make sure that the growth that comes is distributed unevenly. It shows all experience internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e467	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e470	It's interesting to hear SV accuse the Progress Party of failure. For my part, I would say that it is SV that fails. Yesterday there was a report that the proportion of children living below the EU poverty line in Norway has increased from 70 000 to 100 000 in 10 years, despite statements by Soria Moria. I would simply like to ask the Council of State whether he believes that the government can export and learn away the policy of distribution and poverty reduction to developing countries when it has failed to that degree in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e475	If there's two things to say. This means that income differences between the rich and the poor in Norway have narrowed during the time we have been in government. Between 1989 and 2005, the differences continued to increase until the red-green government took over in 2005. The Progress Party itself helped to give the richest of the tax to the richest in that period by removing the tax on dividends – the right side helped to erase it. This must be Karin S. Woldseth aware of and actually take responsibility for it. As for what we do internationally, in fact, there are a lot of people who look at Norway. People come to us and ask, how do you manage to maintain both good distribution policies and the creation of growth over time? At a time when the rest of Europe is struggling with broken back, we see that Norway is able to have the lowest unemployment worldwide. In fact, Norwegian aid money has helped us to halve the number of children who die in the world. So these are results that the Progress Party doesn't want to spend as much money on in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e484	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e487	The right has two main objectives of development policy, one is the realization of human rights and democracy, and the other is permanent out of poverty. The problem with the distribution debate is that without growth, poverty is redistributed. We need both of them, and both of them share at the same time. The two main instruments we have to contribute to economic growth are trade and investment. It creates jobs, and it's perhaps the most important tool for redistributing. If you look at the tools we have to contribute to investments from the Norwegian side, it's Norfund, the State pension fund abroad and private investors. My question to the Council of State is: when you know that, for example: Norfund gets about 10 pst. returns on their portfolio, why are state pension funds abroad not more concerned with investing in developing countries? And what will the Council of State do to help create more Norwegian investment in developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e496	I am concerned about investment in developing countries. I believe that investment in developing countries, both in infrastructure and in education systems, in all forms of investment, is positive in creating development. That is why we are also turning more money over to Norfund. We have more than doubled the annual provisions. I am in favour of all forms of rotating the State pension fund abroad, which is moving towards more investment in developing countries. But the right-hand side takes on fundamental flaws when they believe that investment and growth themselves create better distribution and reduce poverty. On the contrary, Kofi Annan, as among others, says: manages what is called the Africa Progress Panel, that there have been significant developments in a number of African countries. But without proper distribution policies, poverty cannot be eliminated. This is where the right side is wrong when they say that only the poorest countries in Africa are to invest and spend aid money, in which they presented in the document that came from the Right in Development Policy. It is precisely by pursuing a policy in those countries where development and growth are in fact beneficial, one can manage to eliminate it. 70 pst. by the poorest in the world living in middle-income countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e504	Hans Olav Syversen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e507	I'm going to follow up on what's actually the question. I understand that the Council of State feels it is nice to settle a sort of general problem with the so-called right-hand side of aid and development policy, but that was actually not the question. The question is, as I have to repeat, why does the government not come back to the Storting with an investment programme from the State pension fund abroad for investment in the poorest countries? The government itself has said twice in a row that this will be solved. But what the Council of State now indirectly answers, by twisting away, does really mean that this is an abandoned position from this government, and that this is something a new government might have to deal with. What happened to the magnificent representative Holmås when he became the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e514	The President must draw attention to the fact that the State pension fund abroad is constitutionally within the remit of the Minister for Finance and that the question may therefore be a matter of constitutional responsibility. But to the extent that the Council of State can find an opportunity to interpret something in its field of action, he will of course be given the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e517	The representative Hans Olav Syversen knows that well when he asks me that question. I also said in my reply that I am positive that we are turning more of the investment into state pension funds abroad into developing countries. But I would also like to say that with regard to what I am responsible for, which is Norfund and the investments that go to developing countries, we have had a marked increase – where we have more than doubled the investments from the time when Hans Olav Syversen's party put in government. This has been possible because we have managed to double the investment above the development budget from 2004 to 2013. This gives room for more investment. I can say that when it comes to, among other things. what goes on investing in energy, which UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has set up as crucial to manage, to make sure that 1.3 billion people living without electricity today get out of poverty, we have increased it to a record 2 billion. kr in year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e522	We're going to the next main question from Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e525	‘We want to recognise organisations that are able to do a good job,’ said the State Council, Holmås, to the Evening Post. I fully agree that this is a good quote. It is important that we signal a principle that the Right has been asking for for many years, that we evaluate all organisations to which we give money, based on our development goals and on their internal impact and impact objectives. It must mean prioritizing then, priorities mean money, and priorities mean signal effects. From the current budget, there are some wonderful signal effects and priorities. It's a cut to UNICEF for girls' education, when you know that the United Kingdom is evaluating, among other things. UNICEF, has ranked them as'very good' and increased support. Sweden ranks UNICEF high, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own fact sheet states: ‘In relation to the United Nations’s Millennium Goal, Unicef is one of Norway’s main partners. This applies in particular to Objectives 2 and 3 and to Objectives 4 and 5 [[education and equality]] [[child-and-mutilation]] It also states that: ‘Norway expects Unicef to continue to be groundbreaking’. In the case of an organisation with an increase – ILO – the United Kingdom ranks it as ‘poor’ and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’s own fact sheet states: ‘In Norway’s view, there is a need to restructure, improve and simplify management, budgeting and reporting processes in the ILO. [[...]] ILO reporting and evaluation are partly too extensive to be effective management and oversight tools for its members. The organisation may be experienced as a sole root and inconspicuous.» Why does the Council of State do this when it comes to using – as we fully agree – evaluation... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e549	I am very pleased to agree with the principle that I have set up as one of my most important, namely that we should give less of the assistance that does not work, and more of the assistance that works. So I believe that it provides the basis for making sure that the aid budgets increase in the years that are coming, while I see the Right saying that they just want to cut where they think it doesn't work, and spend the money on tax bills for the richest ones in Norway instead. I think that is deeply unsolvable and a policy I do not agree with. Instead, I want the government to move money from the places that we believe have the potential to improve, to the places that we believe work well. UNICEF is one of our most important partners, but we have been informed over several years that we believe they are not good enough to report results. We think they're not good enough to make sure to run efficiently. The 50 million. Instead, as we have cut support for UNICEF, we have moved on to the Global Partnership for Education, so that just as much money will continue to go through the multilateral or international organisations for training. I think that's important, and some of that money will then go to some vulnerable states, because we see that almost half of the kids who don't get education live in vulnerable states – there's a country with war and conflict, or a country with civil war. This is why we are also strengthening education aid in the next year’s budget and setting out several million dollars – 75 new million dollars – for civil society organisations operating in countries where it is difficult to reach out to international organisations, but where you can manage to get more education. We believe that providing education and basic education to people is important, so we will do more of what works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e558	I'm glad we can agree on the principle, but if we have a principle that underlies it, you have to do something about it. And then the whole idea is that there's a requirement, that you evaluate according to the requirements that are imposed, based on our objectives, and that you turn the support then. It is completely incomprehensible to me that you end up increasing the appropriations to, for example. ILO, all the time you reduce in terms of UNICEF. This is part of the government's chronic down-priority of education, unfortunately. We see that education gets less money from the government, well, noting this year's budget here is an exception, but the total is a decrease and not an increase, as the Council of State also has to admit. Then it's easy for me to ask: if UNICEF is going to get less money based on what the State Council says that it's difficult on the evaluation page, difficult on the reporting page, why, according to the same objectives, does the ILO get more money, all the time you fully agree with the Ministry's own reports, that one then does a bad job?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e567	There's two things here. I look forward to the broad debate that we are going to have in the United Nations Communication on prioritisation between organisations. There are clear criteria on which to base. If the Right wants to promote any other criteria than what we want for the redistribution of organisations, I look forward to a debate on that. That's the first time we're going to base that kind of criteria, and we're going to think that systematically reviewing the organisations we spend our aid money on, we're going to make it clear in this year's budget through re-priorities, and we're going to make it clearer in the budgets of the years to come. Because we're going to win the election and stay here for many years. When it comes to education, I would say that the last time I was in the spontaneous question hour, I was asked for exactly education, whether we were interested, and whether we thought it was important to increase support for education. So we're the world's sixth largest contributor to basic education, despite the fact that we're only five million people. We're the biggest contributor to the UNICEF fund for equal education for boys and girls, and we're going to continue with it in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e574	There are three follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e577	Governments have shown here today that the government's international reports are being lost in the remote archive. Rather, the Council of State chooses to talk about redistribution. He's talking about tax credits to the richest in Norway. I would have liked the Council of State to have made a settlement with some of the world's richest men who have billions of assets hidden in tax havens abroad. In fact, Eidsvoll Holmås’ ideological heart as a hot banker for redistribution has a reverse profile in terms of aid money – NOK 30.5 billion from Norway, which is derived from the salary of teachers, from the salary of nurses, should initially be used where the return/impact is best. Why, then, is it that, after reports of documentation, one chooses to throw at UNICEF, go into child education, and move money from where they work best, to where they seem the worst?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e583	It seems that the representative Ivar Kristiansen needs a little reading guide to the state budget. So we're going to take 50 million. move from UNICEF to the Global Partnership for Education. This is exactly the same amount because we believe that the Global Partnership for Education, which has also been positive in the past, works more effectively than UNICEF does. When it comes to redistribution, it's clear that there's less money to redistribute the world if you're going to spend money on tax incentives to eliminate the wealth tax, and I see that that's the main reason why Right wants to contribute to cutting off international solidarity, which is aid money. Then I fully agree with the representative of Kristiansen in one thing: it is incredibly important to contribute to the fight against tax havens – extremely important. There our government has put in a special effort. We now ensure and clearly say that we introduce country-to-country reporting by the government in Norway, regardless of whether the EU comes into operation with such legislation by 2014. We work systematically for openness ashore. It's working.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e592	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e595	It is good that the government goes through the recipients of Norwegian assistance and checks to obtain efficiency. Norwegian non-governmental organisations feel that they are being thoroughly checked, and so it should be. Then it emerged during the budgetary consultation that the Committee had, that some organisations point out that the way in which they are managed, for example, is the way in which they are managed. the detection of corruption or abuse is much more stringent than when the equivalent occurs in a UN organisation. Is it a practice with which the Council of State is satisfied, and in that case will the Council of State work to make it equal to practice, that we treat corruption and abuse equally, whether it occurs in one channel or another for Norwegian aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e604	That is a good question from the representative, Mr Höglund, because I think it is important to state that we are from the Norwegian side, and I understand that there is a broad consensus, that there is a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption, and that we are constantly in dialogue about how we can manage to promote that policy. In Norway, we have introduced new strict control procedures, including standardised procedures, at all our embassies by the Red-Green Government. We have set up a central control unit that has better supervision and is now running cases. We have full transparency about this, and on behalf of the government I'm going to present a new transparency report that will go through all the work we're doing against corruption. So in my opinion, it's an important difference, and we can discuss it further. There's an important difference between UN organisations and the organizations that we have, that's that the UN organisations where we sit on the boards require the same kind of openness in the organisations to do the job of getting back money that's being abused. There we do the job in the organisations instead of in the case of organisations where we are not in the boards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e611	Borghild Tenden – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e614	The Council of State referred to UNESCO itself. We're told that the situation in UNESCO is worse than ever, much more because of the United States' lack of funding because Palestine came in, as the Council of State is sure to know. In the context of the 2013 state budget, the Left will propose that Norway increase its support for UNESCO, in order to keep the wheels running. Will the Council of State support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e619	I am very aware of the situation in UNESCO, because there is no doubt that after Norway, among other things. voted in favour of Palestine being admitted as a member of UNESCO, the Americans have, in my opinion, completely rabiatly decided to cut off all support for that organisation, which is doing important work internationally for knowledge, culture and for the whole area that we also regard as important. In the reviews we make of those organizations, we have a lot of comments and one thing that we think UNESCO should do better to become more effective. We believe that one of the things that can now be done in connection with the organization is that you have to look through where to save in UNESCO. But we have room in our budgets to consider giving more money to UNESCO in terms of the programs and the arrangements that we think are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e624	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e636	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 9, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e649	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice and Defence: «Last weekend, there were very many incidents that the Salten police did not respond to. The fact that people are going to experience insecurity and lack of police assistance is a sign of illness. It should focus more on what is accepted and what is not to be accepted. Is the Council satisfied with the efforts of the Salten police last weekend, or does the Council of State see the need for changes to strengthen the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e663	First, on a general basis, I would like to say how pleased I am with the efforts of the many police officers, both day and night. With regard to the situation referred to in the question, this has been submitted to the Salten Police Master. The Chief of Police has given the following information to the Police Directorate: The night to Sunday 28 October 2012 was marked by many intoxicated people in the Bodø Centre, which has gradually developed into many disorderly order, threatening behavior, fighting, and so on. All patrols were working to sort out the events in the Bodø center. On the evening of October 27 to 28, 2012, two operations managers and one arrest guard were on guard. The arrest warrant was temporarily used to respond to telephones from the audience. The manning was reduced in the current night. Three operational shifts were at work in the middle of the hour. From 23 a.m. to 3 p.m. 04, which is considered a minimum crew on weekends at night. Of the 80 assignments that were registered in the journal, approx. 40 priority given after assessment of severity. The police have largely prioritised being as present as possible in the centre to prevent disorder and violence. The amount of incoming jobs eventually led to a strong burden on the operating centre and difficulties in responding to all the enquiries. The chief of police informed that patrol assistance from the Indre region was engaged in many serious tasks, so that it did not have the capacity to assist. The active patrol in the Outer Region remained for emergency reasons in its own region, where the region is about two hours away from Bodø. The police’s assistance, availability and response time will be the central theme of the forthcoming European Commission’s follow-up mission on 22 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e678	Thanks for the answer. First of all, I'm going to give homage to policemen who do a great job around the country, but the challenge is the essence of the answer the Council of State gives me now. She says you had a reduced crew, you had a minimum crew, you had patrols you thought you'd call, but for the sake of the situation, you can't do that, because then you'd weaken your readiness somewhere else. In my opinion, this is clearly a sign of a disease of the reality of the challenges facing the Norwegian police. If the Council of State directs attention towards Section 2 of the Police Act, the essence of Section 2 of the Police Act is to prevent, prevent and solve crime. Then, with all due respect, you can't drive on a minimum crew and on a reduced crew. Or is it that someone has more demands for help than others? Where on the tax bill of people who pay for common things, such as police aid, does it say?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e683	I have given a description of the situation the current night, where unfortunately the reduced crew on duty. It is up to the local police chief to ensure both an appropriate facility for the service and that preparedness is maintained. The challenges were many. After I was informed, the relevant missions, which were addressed by priority, were carried out in a good way, but as the situation is described, these are the challenges that it is natural to see in a broader context, not only concretely to the Salt. Some increased resources have already arrived in the district of the current year, and with the budget provided for next year, there will be room for increase next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e688	With all possible respect, it would have been tempting to challenge the Council of State whether she has read the comment to Arne Johannessen today from the Police Union, which is not particularly impressed with next year's budget. So the Council of State – and that is a parallel to what has been said about the July 22 Commission – says that here it is the police chief's responsibility to use his budget in a good and sensible way. But it's probably a fact that even the Salten police officer, sir. Heir, has to deal with the framework he is given by the Department of the Council of State, of the financial framework given by the Department of the Council of State. Or is it so that he in free dressage can do what he thinks is tricked? The fact is that this is not the case. Then my question to the Council of State will be as follows: To what extent do the Council of State and the Government have responsibility for the reality facing the Salten police officers, in Telemark and in the Gudbrandsdalen? Is this their problem, or is it ultimately a responsibility of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e693	The annual budgets of the police and officers' seats have increased over the year, and after what I remember, it was such that Arne Johannessen expressed his satisfaction with the budget that had been submitted for some time ago. But I also registered that he has now, at the national meeting with his own members, been somewhat more reserved. Of course, the financial framework is binding, and there is still a policeman to give priority within the given framework. We are going through, of course, also in the light of the report of the 22nd July Commission, how we can think differently both in terms of better response time and in terms of using resources locally if possible in an even better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e702	‘Telemark police districts have developed a separate model for better UEH preparedness in crisis and in sharp situations. Despite the fact that the price tag is only 2.5 million. Mr Telemark has been denied by the Directorate of Police. It is still a long time before any improvement in preparedness is implemented to wait for the results reform and the second communication after 22 July. Will the State Council do something to help ensure that such good and cheap solutions that Telemark implements until other national solutions come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e709	I would like to stress the responsibility of the police chief to organise a satisfactory preparedness in his own district, also to prioritise his resources in the best possible way, according to local needs. The request for UEH preparedness in the Telemark Police District has been submitted to the Police Directorate. In its reply, the Police Directorate stresses the importance of the inclusion of local preparedness measures, as referred to by the Telemark Police District, in a comprehensive national and local plan for the future preparedness of the police. I agree that it is of great importance that the national and local level of preparedness be seen in the context, and in this context also the report and recommendations of the 22 July Commission. Since 22 July last year, efforts have been made to increase police preparedness in the event of major incidents and a number of measures have been implemented. There is increased helicopter preparedness, there is increased capacity on the operating centres, and there is also a functional improvement in today’s national alarm system – to mention something. Further efforts are being made to implement the concrete improvement points of the Commission on 22 July and actions related to both the level of police preparedness, capacity and competence, etc. The Directorate of Police has also launched its own programme of changes and an appointed programme director to follow up on this. The work will include, inter alia: based on acquired knowledge and experience, on the evaluations carried out and the findings of risk and vulnerability analysis. Police preparedness, organisation and models for, inter alia: improved UEH preparedness are areas that need to be clarified. I come back to Stortinget with the results of this work in the announced announcement of the follow-up of the 22nd July Commission report.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e724	I record once again that the Minister of Justice is pushing responsibility for preparedness on the police officers. Telemark now has fewer operative police officers out there to do the job than it had in 2009. Policemen are right to say that we have a worse preparedness now than we had before July 22nd. Then I feel that the Council of State says this is what we're going to get back to. We don't have time to get back to anything. There are things happening every day 365 days a year. You're dependent on having a real readiness. That is what this is all about, and that is what I challenge the Minister of Justice. Does the Minister of Justice think it's okay that you can't have the best people at 2.5 million. kr in a state? We know that Trondheim has put it in place, we know that others want to put in place a contingency plan. But we have a Minister of Justice who keeps pushing the problems and the challenges ahead and saying you're coming back to Stortinget later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e731	I believe it is absolutely essential that we discuss how we can best use the money we have, and not how we can improve with the money we do not have. And it's very central to discuss how to organize preparedness locally. It is the local police officer who knows best how to discharge his or her responsibilities and also the responsibility for prioritisation, and if there are tasks to be given priority. One of the most important messages from the July 22 Commission was the history of resources that did not find each other, and how we have to challenge each other on issues of leadership, attitudes, culture and interaction. We need to get back to this in a broader context, and as I have notified the government will do in the coming message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e738	I hear the Minister of Justice says that the police officers have to dispose of the resources they have, as best you can, and I am convinced that the country's police officers do. But the chief of police in Telemark has said that this is an important contribution to preparedness and wants to get this in place. It is not like the Minister of Justice has said many times in debates with me and others in this Chamber, that so much more money has come to the police. It is not the day of life that they experience in operational service. What's the whole point of having a contingency plan is to have the best people available when disasters happen, when you need people for sharp assignments and other things, and not have to wait for them to come from Oslo or anywhere else. It'll take too long. You need to have people available 365 days a year, so they can move out when you need it, and it's about life and health. I therefore hope that the Minister of Justice will look at this and put in place a system now, and not wait until she comes back to Stortinget with the report – for the security and security of people in Telemark and the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e747	It is an irresistible fact that in the period this government has been sitting, its resources have increased by between 50 and 60 pst. It is also equally important to establish that there are a great many in the police and relief services who possess very good competence even within the acute part of the area of responsibility that we are now talking about, and that we must therefore take some of these challenges more fundamentally. We have also received good proposals for solutions from the Gjørv Commission. That is why, in this particular situation, I challenge the local police officer on the organisation and prioritisation of the given framework, but will come back more broadly to the question in the announced communication. This is a competence which, of course, should be exercised as well as the districts between them in a better way, if possible, than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e763	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e770	My question is: ‘The government has the technical covering to cut the budget line for processing trips abroad by 25 p.m. for 2013, when we know that only 20 pst. for polio, no new medicines have come to replace the effect of a treatment scheme abroad and that children and young people with atopic eczema, asthma and/or other lung diseases do not have other alternatives with an equally good and harmless long-term effect, which is particularly severe in their case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e777	I would first like to say that I think we're all busy giving the patients the representative here mentioned, a best offer. It's a vulnerable group that has a lot of personal stress and pain, and we're going to have a high priority around it. The representative also knows that this matter is being dealt with in committee in the Storting with the budget, and the Storting will deal with it normally in the context of the State budget. We've listened to individuals and patients' organisations during these weeks, and it's been useful. We've been given illustrations of how the journeys work, and what meaning it has for those in need of help. On that basis, I would just like to say here today that the red-green parties on the Stortinget, in consultation with me, have found that they could increase this scheme by 25 million. kr this has been discussed, in addition to the government's original proposal. And then it is up to Stortingen to decide on this matter. But I hope this can give the patient group security, and that it can send clear signals about it. On the specific issue, I would like to emphasise that the treatment system is a complement to treatment in Norway. It started, as many would know, in the last half of the 1970s, and was initially justified by the fact that patients with Revmatical Disease needed an offer to compensate for the lack of hospital services to this group in Norway. People with Revmatical Disease remain the dominant patient group in the scheme, which has gradually been expanded by several patient groups. There can be no doubt that we have made significant progress in the treatment of Revmatic Disease in Norway in recent years. It's a precious bet. Only use of new medicinal products amounts to SEK 1.6 billion. kr annually, but I think everyone will agree that it has been worth that effort, and that the growth in health care costs has also gone for these purposes. Both new diagnostics and new modern drugs have changed the lives of many revenators. That's good. The well - known journal The Lancet mentioned in 2010 that they have given so-called biological medicinal products ‘a therapeutic revolution and transformed prospects for patients with Revmatoid arthritis’. In our proposal for a State budget, we propose to increase the total hospital activity in Norway by less than 2 billion. kr. It's the largest budgeted activity growth ever. The increase will, I hope, also benefit many of the patients in the target population for treatment travel. However, regardless of the amount of treatment travel appropriations, it is important to select those patients who, based on current medical knowledge, have the best expected benefit of such a stay. Now, if the proposal we have before us is adopted, we can maintain the offer, as it was never meant to completely eliminate, but some reduction is now unbalanced. And then I would like to say that we are waiting for an interesting assessment by the Council of Quality and Priorities when they deal with these trips together in their meeting on 11 February 2013. Then we get the best recommendations regarding the scheme, and then we might discuss how we set it up after this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e789	The President is in complete doubt whether this issue should have been avoided because the matter is under consideration in the Health Committee. Since it's gone through the system, we just get to keep going. Hemdal, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e792	Thank you, President, and through the President I must be allowed to thank the Council of State and the Government parties, who have turned around in terms of the cut on treatment trips. It was a wise decision and a right decision. Governments say that you have listened and that there has been useful information that has emerged. Yes, it is often a good idea to listen to those who wear their shoes, because they know where it prints. This was done by the Christian People's Party before the budget came, and we have done so in retrospect. There are happy revenmatics standing outside the Storting building today. Now that we have listened, we know that there are also other groups who want to benefit from treatment trips, for example. people with MS. It shows the technical reports that the Ministry has required the MS Federation to produce. My question is: can the Council of State open up the possibility of new patient groups being included in treatment trips abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e803	I won't rule that out on the standing foot. It makes the impression on me to hear howrevmaticians may have enjoyed these treatment trips. What I think we should be very concerned about is that we think very carefully through the consequences of expanding this system, by assessing very precisely what needs can be met during a treatment trip, so that we ensure that that system is as accurate as possible – that those who have the needs are the ones who are given priority. It's like this in our society, that new knowledge gives new opportunities to organise both treatment in hospitals and treatment during this kind of journey. So I don't want to rule it out here. In the first place, I am very concerned to ensure that those who have looked forward to an offer in 2013 can now do so with the necessary level of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e808	Thanks for the answer. I am glad that the Council of State does not rule out MS patients getting into the scheme, saying that you have to listen to those experiences. This is a matter that has engaged many. There are many chroniclers who are also concerned about the future – not only for 2013 but also for the future. Treatment travel is not given every year — perhaps every two years — and this is in a large process of treatment. My last question to the Council of State relates to the future. We know that this will be discussed in the priority Council on 11 February, in the light of the report that the Ministry itself has ordered through Sintef. However, can the Council of State say something about the future of the offer of treatment travel — whether this will be a supplement, but an important supplement, for our chroniclers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e819	I think it's in what we've done these days -- we've listened, and we've tried to be as helpful as we can to a group that we know we need -- that the government is busy meeting those needs, as far as it can be done, and now we've found a good solution to that, I think. So there we have the setup for 2013. I am not here today – in November 2012 – and have a plan to change it in 2014. But I think it is wise that we have this council that gives us assessments of impact and effort, and that will provide a good review at its February meeting. Then we will have to take that discussion in close contact with patient organisations and user groups – before and after they have made their assessment. I think this is a supplement that many appreciate, which is important for many, and which is good reason to hold fast. Extent and alignment are to be done on the basis of the knowledge we acquire.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e832	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘High iron percentage of mathematics in teacher training is a serious threat to the recruitment and quality of basic skills training and education in one of the basic subjects of the school. Even more alarming is the failure of the new teacher training to bring a large proportion of students to a good outcome in the subject. What initiatives will the Council of State take to ensure that teacher training is of high quality and can provide the school with well-qualified math teachers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e841	Yes, the math level of the teachers' students is too poor. When there are so many teachers who are ironing out, it means that we have a big challenge. We know that many people have weak knowledge when they enter universities and colleges, and unfortunately the results are weaker than expected later in education. It's something that it's urgent to do something about. I'm very concerned that we're going to get good math teachers. I have already had a meeting with the National Council for Teacher Education to discuss the challenges we have. The teacher training reform has led to positive developments in some areas, and in addition to the long-term changes that are underway, we now need rapid action. So I want to call the teacher training, the National Center for Mathematics in Education and Students to a meeting as soon as possible to discuss and concrete what needs to and can be done. I want to give the Mathematics Centre and the teacher training assignments to work together on two courses – one for students and one for teachers. For students, I want intensive courses that can raise their math skills to a satisfactory level. The Math Centre has been successful in its offers within the New GIV, and I would like to ask the Centre to propose how the content of the post-secondary education course, which they offer to secondary school teachers, can also be included in the basic training of new teachers. This issue will be the starting point for developing a course for teachers. In addition, I would like to instruct the Mathematics Centre and the teacher training to develop a test that will provide information on the skills of students in mathematics when they start their teacher training. These measures will represent a promise for primary teacher education, and will run parallel to other measures already undertaken in primary, secondary and teacher education to increase the competence of mathematics students, teachers and society for the rest. I also remind you that the Stortinget has decided to escalate the funding of elementary school teacher education over a few years. From 2016, the total increase in these programmes will be 160 million. kr annually. I assume that universities and colleges use these funds for active, systematic and targeted work to develop and strengthen the quality of the new primary school teacher education. I would also like to ask the Follow-up Group on New Primary Teacher Education to take a particular look at how the individual educational institution obtains an overview of the level of competence of the students in mathematics and how they put up the teaching in this respect. Finally, I would like to stress that I have great expectations that the governments of the individual institutions providing primary school teachers will address the challenges they face, and help to realise the quality of education that society needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e862	Although the numbers might make it extra dramatic, it's not new that the math quality of the teachers' students is bad. The government has been running for almost eight years, and the Right has repeatedly warned that the quality of teacher training has not been good enough. The new framework plans for new teacher training are laid down by this government and by the department currently managed by the Council of State. At the same time, it must be the responsibility of the government to ensure that there is quality – bottom-solid quality – in the new teacher training. I hear the Council of State says to introduce additional courses, and you have to take immediate action now, but my question is: will you now go into the framework plans – even if they are only two years old – and look at them and make sure that teaching in the field of mathematics and accounting as basic skills is given more space and attention, and see if it is necessary to add extra resources to this important subject at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e869	This has been designed in such a way that the framework plans are at a rather general level – that is, the representative of Aspaker is well-known – and the educational institutions have a duty to provide sound education. But I now go a lot further into what is the individual institution's discussion and development of quality in that arrangement, precisely because we can't accept that teachers have as low a level of mathematics as what we see now. That's why I take these very concrete starting points: to map what the students actually can when they start, and the demands and expectations of the institutions that they put up math education so that you can take the possible lack of skills for the students. With close cooperation and dialogue with both the Math Centre and the educational institutions, we need to take a shared responsibility to improve knowledge here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e878	There can be no doubt here that there is a failure in teacher training when so many students or students cancel. But I want to refer to numbers I've picked up from Norwegian social science data service that shows that overall, for all teacher education, it was thus spring 2011 12,2 pst. ironing in mathematics. In the spring of 2012 it was increased to 15.2 pst. And that's 8 pst. of the students both years who get the grade E, i.e. the lowest standing grade. Right-wing believes it is important to have high ambitions for teachers' professional qualifications in mathematics and in basic skills. We're in a situation where we can actually experience that high school students are going to have better professional qualifications than the teachers who are going to be in the classroom teaching them. So I'm wondering, what level of ambition does the Minister of Knowledge have for future math teachers? Does the Council of State consider it acceptable with teachers who so far retain a standing character in the field of mathematics, or will the Council of State now consider raising the entry requirement in mathematics in the course of teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e887	As the representative of Aspaker is familiar with, the teacher's training has now been arranged so that those who are going to teach mathematics at the youth level are going to have 60 credits in mathematics as a starting point. So I think we have a better starting point for math education in high school than the one that Aspaker says. But that's how the basics of what you learn in high school come to the nursery, and that's especially where there's reason to be concerned about the level that's in mathematics. So the question is, if we then introduced recording requirements on grade 4 in mathematics over night, what would happen? Yeah, that would be 40 pst. not received by those applying for teacher training. If we were demanding 4 in mathematics and Norwegian, 70 would be pst. by today's teacher school students did not have the points enough to get in. It had led to a serious crisis in teacher recruitment. Therefore, my approach is, rather, in close cooperation and with clear demands on the institutions to make sure that there is a completely different pressure on math training during teacher training, so that we ensure that the quality of the teachers who are graduates is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e898	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The results of this year’s national tests show a negative trend and an increase in the number of pupils at the lowest mastering level of the 5th stage. This shows that we do not succeed in early school efforts. Lack of literacy will be a challenge for these higher education students. This requires new measures both at school and in teacher training. What initiatives will the Council of State take to reverse the negative developments in student literacy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e907	The representative Svein Harberg refers to the results of this year's national tests and asks what initiatives I want to take to reverse the negative developments in student literacy. The representative is particularly concerned with early efforts. I will come back to the fact that the premise for this question is completely wrong. The aim of the national tests is to assess the success of the school in developing the skills of pupils in reading, billing and English. National tests shall primarily provide management information to schools, municipalities and national authorities. It is also provided that the tests will benefit the individual student’s educational development in cooperation between teacher, student and supervisor. National tests are not examinations in trades, but in basic skills in all trades. The reading and billing tests are therefore based not only on the objectives of competence in Norwegian and mathematics, but also on other subjects where reading and billing objectives are integrated. The tests in English differ from the other two tests by taking as a starting point the objectives of competence in one subject. It is important to note that national tests vary from year to year and therefore do not provide information on the development of pupils’ results over time. We are concerned that teachers and students should be able to use the training and assessment tasks after the tests have been conducted. It is therefore chosen to outsource all of the tasks used. This makes it provisionally impossible to compare samples to calculate changes from one year to another. So it's not that you can say that this year's national tests are proof of a negative development or that we're not succeeding with early efforts. However, municipalities and schools should use the tests to see whether they have improved or not in relation to others — municipalities they compare with, county or country. Information on Norwegian pupils’ development over time and on a level is provided by the international studies such as PISA, TIMSS and PIRLS. PISA reading showed a positive development in the literacy skills of Norwegian secondary school students in 2010. The PIRLS results, published in December, will show the development of the 4th and 5th stage reading skills of Norwegian students. We have kept a constant pressure on reading in the basic training from the strategy Give room for reading! 2003–2007, the introduction of reading as one of the basic skills of the Knowledge Lift in 2006. The number of hours in Norwegian was expanded from 2008, and at the same time the curriculum was adjusted to enhance literacy, especially in the early years. The reading exercise for 2011–2014 includes a number of actions, both skills-enhancing and literacy-stimulating measures. In 2013, I set a new curriculum in Norwegian, along with revised curricula for English, mathematics, social sciences and science. The basis for this work is a framework for basic skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e930	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was strange. So, as the Council of State said, the purpose of the tests is to give a steering signal, but it is also a steering signal to the Council of State, which has overall responsibility for kindergarten, basic education and up to and including teacher training. And it's a fact that there's an increased number of students at the lowest mastering level in reading skills. It worries us in the Right, and I thought it worried the Council very much. The question is, what do we do to tackle this now? Yes, there are measures going on, there are increasing resources going on, but we can't see that we're doing anything to lift those who are struggling most with reading as it looks now. Then I expect the Council of State to intervene, and that is the measures I am asking for. Now, what does the Council of State want to do to figure out why it is? And what can we do to help these students so that they can acquire knowledge in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e937	It is not possible to draw that conclusion from the national samples this year. What we know about the progress in reading from PISA 2006-2009 is that we have in particular succeeded in raising those who read the worst. In fact, those who were at the lowest level have resumed as much as a full school year compared to the number of points above 2006. So we're on the right track when it comes to this. The national samples are not intended to measure level and are not intended to measure trend. They are meant as a starting point for schools to compare to see how they are based on a national average. So I think we're already doing what works, that's increasing the emphasis on early work and increased learning in reading – that you're not waiting for students to read a little bit better by themselves, but start quickly. In addition, we have now had as many as 3,600 teachers during this school year who are being trained to meet those students who do the worst in reading, writing and billing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e946	I record that the Council of State will not deal with the results of national tests, and does not take it as a guiding signal for its follow-up to school owners in terms of education and mastering reading skills, but refers to other tests. I think that's scary. In recent years, the Education Association itself has made clear the need to put in place systems to ensure the quality of teachers, both in the case of those in training, and in the case of those in training. 3 pst. new teachers that we train every year. So when the Council of State refers to the new ones, it means that in 12-13 years we have 30 pst. new teachers out there, but we have a large group that's already there. I registered that the State Council at the Education Association's meeting now did not provide any feedback on the quality assurance systems that the Education Association has aired. Will she now take positive action on these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e955	I repeat that it is PISA and PIRLS that provide us with information on the development of the level and trends of the students' knowledge, and the PIRLS is coming now in December, so we get a new update on how the 4th and 5th grades are in terms of reading. The national samples are instruments to be used differently. Then there is a very interesting debate going on in the Education Association on a certification system – and the right and obligation to continue training. I think it's very interesting that they take that discussion, and I think it's very good that the professionals go ahead in the discussion. I'm very concerned that if we're going to go that way, we need to find a system for assessing teachers on the way that doesn't lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. I am very concerned that we need to find the right balance between control and impact, and I already think we have a major challenge in combating bureaucracy in the school sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e966	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘Since 2010/2011, families with sick children have lost care since Nav introduced a new legal interpretation of the legislation. There are children with major head injuries, with ME, with serious long-term illnesses with more that need care and care from their parents all day. Some are so sick that during periods, often over many years, they cannot go to school or kindergarten. Will the Council of State change the legislation and Nav's interpretation of chronic disease, so that parents can continue to receive care as previously practised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e975	The question raised by the representative relates to care allowance under § 9-11. Care is given to parents of children with a life-threatening or very serious illness who need continuous supervision and care. If the disease is permanent, care allowance is not available, except in the initial phase, during unstable periods or in the case of a very serious disease. The representative claims that the Employment and Welfare Act has introduced a new legal interpretation of the legislation so that parents lose care. It must be a misunderstanding. Nav carried out an administrative reorganization a few years ago where care allowance treatment was centralised into county administrative units from local level, so it was at local level before, and then moved up to county level. It was done to ensure equal treatment and to ensure that it was equal to the practice of the legislation we have. I am aware that after the reorganisation it was discovered that there were cases where there had been different practices at local level. When reviewing cases where there was an application for a renewed period of care allowance, several cases of care allowance were granted without this being in line with the legislation. This could, for example: because the disease now had to be considered to be permanent or because the requirement of a very serious disease was not met. the obligation to refuse, or to stop, payment of care allowance when the conditions are not met. The budget has not, therefore, been generally streamlined in practice or legislation, but action has been taken to ensure non-discrimination and non-discrimination practices in line with the legislation. The representative specifically mentions ME. I can inform you that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare recently – in the spring of 2012 – included ME in the list of diseases, which, after a concrete assessment, can give entitlement to care allowance. As is well known, the Kaasa Committee, which presented its position on 17 October last year, suggested, among other things. an extension of the care arrangements. The Ministry of Health and Welfare, in cooperation with my department, is now working on the important follow-up work of this investigation. Then we will look at care pay, care allowance and welfare benefits in one context – two social benefits are state-owned through social security and one is municipal – to get an appropriate distribution of this money, so that it can provide good support to families in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e988	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to quote former State Council Bjurstrøm, who in 2011 said here in Stortinget: ‘The practice has been revised, and I cannot now guarantee that anyone who has received a care allowance in the past will continue to do so under the new scheme.’ What's the problem here is that Nav defines chronic disease as permanent after two years. Then there are a lot of people who fall out of the right to care, and there are some chronic diseases — not least ME, which are now fortunately included in this list — that can last longer than two years. These children may be very ill, even after two years after they got the disease. These kids can't be at home alone. Is it better that strangers come into the home than that, for example. Do parents continue to receive care allowance? I am looking for the fact that you could have changed the legislation at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e998	There is, of course, just the need to know whether there is a need to change the legislation that underpins the work of the Kaasa Committee and that we will follow up, because there are also other benefits for the group that Laila Davøy is talking about, namely care pay and aid. In some cases, there may be a proper benefit for families who have been deprived of care because there shall not be a lasting benefit as the legislation currently stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1003	I guess the Council of State knows that care pay and social assistance can't in any way compensate for the care allowance if you talk about very, very ill children. Sissel Berg Haveraaen has in the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association no. 14 this year wrote a very good article about the changes that have occurred within this with care allowance in recent years, and she says: ‘This has led to more restrictions as a result of the definition of a permanent, serious disease by the paragraphs, the initial phase of a disease, progressive disease and grading of supervision.’ I would like to ask the Council of State directly, because the Kaasa Committee does not come up with any specific proposals for changes, and they also use the terms ‘long-term, serious disease’ in the same way as Nav does today. Will the Council promise me to consider Chapter 9, so that care can be provided as long as necessary, regardless of diagnosis and duration, when the child needs continuous help from his parents — even at night? Then the parents can't go to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1013	In this case, we have to look at the entry criteria for these care allowances, because what is the difference between care allowances and other types of public social benefits, is that these are based on the same principles as sickness benefits, namely 100 pst. coverage. This is a social benefit that is also not regulated in relation to G, so if you receive a care allowance when the child is 2 years old and gets it to the child is 18, it will initially not be a social benefit that is regulated. So I think one should see these social benefits in a context – both care pay, care allowance and relief benefits – but we cannot continue this as a permanent arrangement with the entry criteria that are for this support today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1022	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church: ‘More dioceses report lack of performance resources. This reduces the number of religious services and other church acts, against the wishes of the church. Some places in the country, clergymen are moved from the district to central districts. The Arbeitsforskningsinstitut has carried out a study on the working environment in the Church. It turned out that one in five priests was burned out. The scarcity of the clergy makes the individual feel a lot of work pressure. Are state councils comfortable with their own employer policies and with current performance resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1031	The services of the clergy are essential for maintaining the Church of Norway as a nationwide church. The purpose of the grants for the services is that all the congregations of the country should be ministered by a pastor. Church members shall have access to religious services and church acts such as baptism, confirmation, marriage and burial, in their local church. Several measures have been implemented over the last decade to strengthen performance coverage and to ensure better working conditions for the performance of the services. New leisure arrangements, new preparedness arrangements and reorganization of the services with greater opportunities for local adaptation and cooperation between the performers of a prosti — often referred to as the proste reform — have been important measures. Appropriations for the provision of services have increased with the background to these changes, such as: have led to the establishment of several posts and to the improvement of the pay and working conditions of the pastors. Work on further developing the services and ensuring a good framework for the performance of the priests will continue to have a high priority. It is the bishops and the Episcopal Councils who are responsible for the allocation of the performance resources between the congregations in the individual diocese. I think it will always be such that the budgetary frameworks that are granted will be perceived as scarce. At the same time, changes in the population structure, with large population growth in some areas and depopulation in others, challenge the traditional organisation of performance services. That the dioceses in view of this are reviewing the use and allocation of the performance resources, I see as a positive expression of the will and ability to convert. I am confident that the bishops and the Episcopal Councils in this work will take care of and balance the needs of the congregations for the performance of their duties properly. I see the recent work environment survey as an important reference for the Church to improve the working environment among its employees. In the case of the priests, I believe that the opportunities offered by the proste reform for an active and supportive personnel policy have not been sufficiently exploited. The Ministry has therefore launched an evaluation of the reform. I am convinced that the evaluation will provide us with valuable knowledge for the further shaping of the human resources policy towards the priests. In addition, we have asked the Bishops' Meeting to draw up a comprehensive proposal for an introduction programme for priests. The appropriations allocated to the Norwegian Church and to the services have increased in recent years. Important reforms of a human resources nature have been implemented. Overall, I believe that this has helped to strengthen the working conditions of the Church and the clergy and to continue the Church of Norway as a nationwide church. Bispedal councils are constantly working to allocate the performance resources to meet the manning challenges and improve the performance situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1044	I thank you for the answer, and I record that the Council of State clarifies that it is vital that there are enough priests in the Norwegian Church for it to be an open and active people's church. In addition, she points out that several measures have been taken. But this is disproportionate to what the Council of State says, and what is experienced outside among the clergy. For years it has been that the number of performances has been cut, for example. is the status of Bjørgvin Bispedom that three-four posts have been laid down and more have to be laid down. In Stavanger diocese, four posts were cut in 2009, and two and a half new posts were added in 2011. The Council of State also says that it is the responsibility of the bishops to distribute these posts. But where is the responsibility for financing these posts, which is necessary to maintain that there may be a pastor in each congregation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1051	There can be no doubt that the changes that have taken place with the organisation of the Norwegian Church do not alter the responsibility for funding. The government is responsible for funding the services, and there have been 75 more performance positions in the Norwegian Church in the last decade. At the same time, in the period after 2005, the number of members of the Norwegian Church has fallen by over 100 000. There are 1,500 fewer marriages in the Norwegian Church, and there are over 3,000 fewer baptismal acts carried out each year. That means that there is less of the church activities being carried out, so each priest has through it got a less workload. But then I think it's demanding to be a priest. They are facing challenging challenges. It's a demanding profession, it requires a lot of you. That is why we need to focus on leadership, and that is the proste reform solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1058	I thought it was good to get a clarification – that it is the responsibility of the government to finance the performances. Now it's also that in what was presented, the number that was presented, there are well 60 positions funded by other people than the state. My further question will then be addressed to the Council of State: What is the significance of the state funding for the labour pressure experienced by the clergy today in that situation? Does the Council of State feel that she has a responsibility to make more money, so that the priests do not experience the pressure they have today? It is rare that we have a professional group that is as honorable and as responsible as the priests are – they push and go to work almost no matter what condition they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1065	Yes, both government and bigotry have a responsibility for having a nationwide church, and I believe that we are showing that with the 1.6 billion. We transfer to the Council of Churches to have a nationwide service. It's the episcopal councils that get the money to make sure that we have a satisfactory order in each and every diocese. So it's become more priests. There have been fewer church acts to be carried out. There have been fewer members. Then I believe that we may not just have to look at the appropriations, but we have to look at the management that is being carried out. We have to look at whether the re-educated priests who enter the service are getting enough support to carry out the duties they are going to do. Then I believe that an evaluation of the proste reform is absolutely necessary to see if we have organised well enough and got enough out of the proste reform. Then I have great faith that we have to follow up the new priests in a good way. That is why I think an information program will be good to make sure that more people are in a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1083	This question has been raised. Then we come to questions 10 and 11, and the president just wants to say that these questions are practically identical. Now, however, they have released through the loop here in the house not only once, but twice, since these were exposed from the previous question hour, so both questioners now get to ask them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1095	I would like to begin by commenting that there are two different questions about the same matter, but very different questions. That's the one. The second was that it is both pleasant and exciting to meet the Council of State in a new position for us. We've been together in committee, and I look forward to cooperation on life views. Then I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: ‘A change in the count of members of the Norwegian Church, and thus a change in the calculation basis for grants to other religious communities, has alerted the other religious communities to a reduction in their 2013 grants. At the same time, the Norwegian Church has received an increase in its grants. The cuts of other religious communities are not mentioned in any file, and it is reasonable to assume that the consequence was unintentional. How will the Council of States address this unfair discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1108	I feel that the representative Harberg has a commitment that trust and life views outside the Norwegian Church should have good and far-sighted economic conditions, and that is an commitment that I share. I understand that the representative relates his question to the changes in the calculation basis of the rate of support for the community of threats and life, which I record has been a topic of discussion in many places. It is not true that there was no mention of it in any case document – it was reported in the State budget for 2011 and in the State budget for 2012 that the changes would come, and we have announced in the State budget for 2013 that the changes will take effect for 2013. In other words, our changes have been reported in good time. We have also taken matters up in meeting with the Cooperation Council for Religious and Lifely Societies, who have been asked to make recordings. So the question is whether the changes are unimaginable. The intrusive regimes for trust and life-sight societies outside the Norwegian Church are based on rights, and they are governed by the law of trust societies and the law of mutual consent and the law of support for life-sight societies. The rate of subscription is calculated on the basis of the government's expenditure on the Norwegian Church and the number of members of the Norwegian Church. Paragraph 3-1 of the Church Law states that emigrating Norwegian citizens may also be members of the Norwegian Church, and consequently also forms part of the basis for the calculation of the rate of contribution of the religious and living communities outside the Norwegian Church. All the time, emigrated members with Norwegian citizenship in the persuasive communities outside the Norwegian Church have been expected to do so, but emigrated members with Norwegian citizenship in the Norwegian Church have not been counted on for various reasons when the rate has been fixed. It should have been for non-discrimination. This means that I do not agree with the representative that this non-discrimination between the Norwegian Church and the other belief and life-view societies is to be regarded as unreasonably discriminatory. Threat and life-sight communities must have good conditions. Their government grants are calculated from three points: the first is the government's budgeted expenditure on the Norwegian Church; the second is the number of members of the Norwegian Church; and the third is the number of members of the individual belief and life-view society outside the Norwegian Church. This means that when the state increases its budgeted expenditure to the Norwegian Church, as the representative Harberg points out in his question, it benefits the other belief and life-view societies. I note that the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs, which proposes the Church Budget, has proposed an increase, and it has consequently also been proposed by the Ministry of Culture. In the state budget for 2013, it is seen by about two thirds of the total budget. 230 million. in favour of a community of truss and life views outside the Norwegian Church. There's an increase of more than 20 million. kr in relation to the 2012 balance of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1125	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that new counting has been mentioned, but the consequences, that it has negatively affected the other religious communities, have not been mentioned – not all one gets space on seven lines in a question in the questionnaire – so that's quite right. It's also true that it's the starting point that's been reduced, that there are other numbers that form the basis. My question was almost whether this was a deliberate matter – that is, that the new census would reduce the transfers to the others, that is, the basis for the transfers to the others. In that case, at least it is obvious that the other religious communities have not captured it, and were very surprised when they got a total notice of nearly $6 million. NOK i cut in relation to what had been before. It is strange if this were to be a deliberate saving measure in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1132	I understand that the question was asked that way, because it has our starting point for the public discussion. I can be as clear as saying that it is not intentional as a budgetary saving measure. I also believe that it is too early to conclude on how it will affect the community of trust and life, for how it affects them, depending on how one finally calculates the number of emigrations with Norwegian citizenship. How one calculates it also has our subject for discussion. It's a discussion that I understand, because it has our important arguments for different ways of calculating the number in a precise way. I want to make sure that one calculates that number in the most accurate way possible, so that the consequences it gets are fair and reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1137	Thanks again for the clear answers. My last question is really about calculating, because here's a new way of counting that's calculated, that doesn't affect the transfers to the Church, but that affects the transfers to others. Then I think, when I read the papers and read the background, that something seems uncertain about these computational figures. Could the Council of States do anything to sort that out? It is clear that there is a germ of disunity in uncertain calculations on this. There should be safe and good counter-counting arrangements in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1142	I agree that we need safe, good computations for this, and I want to work for one to get exactly that. Then we're going to conclude what consequences it has for the community of threats and life when we've finally concluded the model of computation in place. As I said, at least I understand some of the objections that have been raised against him. Just to put it briefly: one calculates the number of emigrations with Norwegian citizenship so that one takes the number and subtracts from the percentage of foreign citizens and the percentage of people over 80 years of age. There have been important arguments for calculating it in other ways, and I would like it to be as exact as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1151	I also have the pleasure of asking the Minister of Culture a question: «Many religious and life views outside the Norwegian Church are growing rapidly. Religious and life-seeking societies have an important role to play as the integration arenas in Norwegian society. In order to carry out this important societal task, they depend on a predictable economic framework. Unforeseen economic cuts could make it more difficult to serve members in a good way. How will the Council of State contribute to ensuring the economic predictability of religious and life views outside the Norwegian Church?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1160	I find that the representative Eriksen has shown, in many contexts, commitment to the community of truss and life views outside the Norwegian Church and the Norwegian Church, and that they must have good and prudent economic conditions. It's an engagement that I respect and share. I understand that the representative links his question to the changes in the basis of calculation of the rate of contributions to the threat and life-view society in the same way as the representative Harberg, and that the representative Eriksen links part of his question to the threat and life-view societies as integration venues. The representative, Eriksen, is entitled to the fact that some of such societies are very good integration venues. But we cannot ignore the fact that some of them are also very poor integration venues. But the calculation of the incentive they get is not related to the degree of integration into society, because the purpose of the economic advantage of the belief and life-view society outside the Norwegian Church, the way it is calculated, is not integration, but the equal treatment of these societies and the Norwegian Church. Then there are two details the representative Eriksen uses in his question, to which I believe it is natural to link some comments. One is ‘unforeseen’ in the wording ‘unforeseen economic cuts’, and the other is the word ‘cut’. We can start with the first one. In my opinion, the changes in the calculation basis for the trust and life views are not uninvitable, because they were reported in the 2011 state budget and the 2012 state budget, and because the 2013 state budget has reported that they will become effective from 2013. Then is the question of whether the changes result in cuts for the belief and life-view societies outside the Norwegian Church. What is important is that there will be several people who are included in the calculation basis for the rate of subscription because one counts with several in the Norwegian Church. But as long as the total cookie being distributed is also larger, this change does not necessarily mean a decline in the origin of the belief and life-view societies. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs has proposed that the government's promises to the Norwegian Church in 2013 be increased, and it has consequently also proposed the Ministry of Culture for the state support for the community of truss and life views outside the Norwegian Church. There's an increase of more than 20 million. kr in relation to the balance of the budget in 2012. So I like to keep in touch with the truss and life-view societies until we land a reasonable calculation model for the number of emigrating members of the Norwegian Church with Norwegian citizenship, so that he can be as precise and reasonable as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1173	I think it is right that the term ‘cut’ is unpresidual, because due to the reform of faith training, a larger grant has been received than before. What I think is the challenge in this matter is: Take an example like the Catholic Church, which, because of the membership structure of the Catholic Church, serves many more members than what they actually receive. They also need religious training, and in their faith training funds, this modified calculation model is given a real cut compared to what could be expected from what the Norwegian Church gets. Then I want to challenge the Council of State: I have thought that this is not about calculation models, but it is about example. The situation of the Catholic Church, which has so many more members that they actually serve, than what they receive grants, how can we get them to gain recognition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1180	I agree with the representative Eriksen that at least the discussion this has created brings some challenges. I would like to stress that when it comes to the belief and life-view societies outside the Norwegian Church, the number of immigrants with Norwegian citizenship has been a constant factor, so that it has been part of the calculation of the total impact that the individual belief and life-view society will have. Then the changes that we have made in the 2013 state budget are all about how one calculates the number of members of the Norwegian Church as the basis for the rate of the belief and life-view societies outside the Norwegian Church – that it should be in line with both laws and regulations and in accordance with the way one calculates it for the belief and life-view societies today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1187	I think many would have understood this better if the government had been willing to give increased appropriations to the Norwegian Church for the actual members who are coming in – then we would have escaped this. But let me withdraw this to the religious education reform that the Norwegian Church has, and for which there is another government council that is in some way responsible. It has meant a lot to the Norwegian Church. We face very many challenges from the responsibilities of this Council of State, from other religious and life-view societies, because the appropriations for this are too small. It is in the context that I think this basis of calculation gives an added burden to other religious and life-view societies, who also need to train their members in their teachings and beliefs. My challenge to the Council of State, which is responsible for this group – not for the training of faith in the Norwegian Church, is: How can we manage to give these too a grant that is at a level that allows them to train their members in their faith?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1194	Now it is the intention of one to give to the belief and life views outside the Norwegian Church – as the representative Eriksen also points out – to the vows of the Norwegian Church and the number of members there. It means that one doesn't give – what I'm going to say – an additional suggestion or other suggestion for the same purpose, but that one adds to that calculation model. Then there's an honest thing about wanting to change current laws and regulations, if one wants to provide additional funding to different belief and life-view societies. But this is the model of calculation that one has chosen now, and as one thinker gives a reasonable level of non-discrimination between the Norwegian Church and the community of truss and life views outside the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1199	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-07.ana.ud1417e1212	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that there are none of the remaining representatives in the Chamber who wish to speak before the sitting is cancelled. - The meeting's been cancelled.
