ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e58	Contamination from human activity is very crucial for ensuring clean soil, clean air and clean water in the future. As we all know, the substances around us have different rate of degradation in nature, and we have a number of non-natural chemical products – which are most demanding in terms of soil, air and water pollution. The aim of the work for which the Ministry of Environment is responsible is to minimise the damage caused by waste to nature, the environment and people. The size has stipulated that all hazardous waste is to be safely disposed of, either by recovery or by ensuring sufficient treatment capacity and also to prevent the illicit export of hazardous waste from Norway. The National Audit Office points out that more and more waste is being treated and handled properly, and the Riksrevision points out that there is an ever-increasing improvement in supervision, to which an overall committee agrees. However, there are still hazardous waste that is not collected, or there is irresponsible handling or illegal export of waste. As I said, clean soil, clean air and clean water are in the opinion of many people, especially us who are concerned with biology, some of the cores of pollution. We all know that very small amounts – very small amounts – can have major consequences for biological processes. When we also know that humans are at the top of the food chain, most people know how harmful substances accumulate in the food chain and end up with us. There are irreversible processes in many cases, and thus it is extra challenging to prevent this from developing. For example, waste from sewage sludge and its use in food soils can be mentioned, which is very demanding if there are small amounts of waste in this sewage sludge, which can then be accumulated in plants and further in animals in the biological process. It is therefore very positive – and it is very much appreciated by both the Committee and the National Audit Office – that the Ministry of the Environment is constantly considering measures to ensure a good environment. The last thing, which has been a lot of progress, has been the collection of small electronics, which is something that is increasingly surrounding. A single committee underlines the importance of the Riksrevision to verify whether the information on the waste and its treatment is in line with the export authorisation granted by the authorities. Another point to which an overall committee refers is that the National Audit Office’s investigations have highlighted major weaknesses in the Directorate-General for Maritime Control’s control of the submission of hazardous waste from shipping in Norwegian ports. An overall committee calls on the Ministry of the Environment to follow up the Directorate for Maritime Affairs in order to ensure better control. That is the area where the Riksrevision and the Committee have the clearest comments on the ministry. In the field of shipping, it is essential because Norway is a significant and tone-setting shipping nation. There is strong competition — and often difficult competition — based on very different national environmental and safety requirements. This is why it is particularly important that Norway is a small model, and that it allows us to gain a competitive advantage in order to ensure that we have environmentally friendly shipping in the home.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e77	The Progress Party is concerned that our natural resources and our environment are well managed. We are working for a rational, environmentally friendly and efficient management of waste from households and businesses. Although we sometimes ask questions about climate policies, regulations, taxes and other measures, we are of course concerned with waste management, and in particular that hazardous waste should be properly managed. The rapporteur has grouped the Committee on short and concrete comments on this matter. The Party welcomes the fact that more and more hazardous waste is being handled properly and that the supervision in this area has been improved, although hazardous waste is still not being collected and waste is not being properly managed or exported illegally, which of course gives cause for concern. In this context, it is right to keep an ongoing assessment of the situation and to consider what action can be taken. The Progress Party, like the other parties, has noted the weaknesses of the Maritime Directorate's control of the submission of hazardous waste from shipping in Norwegian ports and considers it very important that the Ministry of Environmental Protection should follow up the Directorate in this field. I would also like to point out that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have already made proposals in December 2009 for a comprehensive review of waste policy. It is therefore worth noting that the Ministry of the Environment is now working on a major report on waste management and that the Ministry here will follow up the comments of the National Audit Office. We look forward to that. With these brief comments, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the good work he has done on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e94	I am very busy that we need to ensure the defenseful management of waste. Hazardous waste may lead to serious contamination or to a risk of harm to humans or animals if no defence is taken. Some hazardous waste contains pollutants, i.e. substances that accumulate in nature and may have serious long-term effects on health and the environment. We have a national target that hazardous waste should be handled defencefully and either go to recovery or be safe enough national treatment capacity. Over the years, environmental protection authorities have strengthened their work on hazardous waste. It has been a special effort against types of waste where the risk of spreading environmental pollutants is high, or there are large quantities that we do not know where will end. However, there is still a part that goes to unknown handling, and we have to follow that up. Norway is among the countries with the highest collection of electrical and electronic waste per capita. However, the National Audit Office points out that such waste is still not being collected. I agree that higher collection of electrical and electronic waste is one of the most important areas in the future. Changes in legislation have already been undertaken to improve collection. The national audit notes that oil waste is the largest amount of hazardous waste for unknown treatment. There is still a challenge in the collection of additional quantities. Increased collection of oil waste is therefore a priority area, and information on industry and supervision is strengthened. The National Audit Office points to the need to develop further supervisory cooperation between etatar and continued guidance from the State Department. Unfortunately, in the hazardous waste industry there have been several examples of serious cases of irresponsible and illegal management of hazardous waste. The supervision of hazardous waste and the cooperation between the agencies involved have therefore been significantly strengthened in recent years. I want to make sure that this important work continues. The National Audit Office also points to weaknesses in the control of the submission of hazardous waste from shipping in Norwegian ports. The Ministry, in consultation with the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, is now taking care to ensure better control of it in the future. The National Audit Office also believes that the control of exports of hazardous waste is not good enough. Exports of hazardous waste to countries outside the EU/EEA and the OECD are prohibited. Here we have common legislation with the European Union. We export hazardous waste, but it is mainly destined for recycling. Countries to which we export hazardous waste have the same strict legislation and must verify that illegal exports do not happen. We have strengthened our efforts to detect and follow up illegal exports and imports of hazardous waste in the last few years. The Directorate for Climate and Pollution has, among other things: carried out a series of checks at the main border stations and ports in cooperation with customs. The Directorate for Climate Change and Pollution, in cooperation with the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, the Directorate for Customs and Charges, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the Coastal Agency, has developed a scheme to improve the control of illegal exports and imports of waste by tankers and bulk carriers. This control system will be tested and further developed. The Ministry of the Environment also wants to strengthen legislation in relation to environmental crime. Under today’s rules, illegal shipments of waste are not punishable. In a proposal that is now to be heard, it is suggested to increase the level of penalties for illegal shipments of waste from fines to two years in prison. An increase in the penalties for illegal shipments of waste will be punishable, the limitation period for limitation in such cases will be extended from two to five years, and the police will be given the opportunity to investigate suspected cases. We believe that an increase in the penalties will bring the level of penalties in line with other environmental crime, and that this will seem general preventive. We are working on a new message to the Stortinget on waste. In our work on this, we will consider how we will follow up on the comments of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e126	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e140	This article is going to be a little longer than the post I made in the previous case. Government Council Breck is no fixed guest when the control committee has issues – and at these times he may be pleased with it. In the present case, however, there is reason why he is present. We are going to consider a serious report in his field, and it is comprehensive and significant observations that the Committee has on the issues that arise. We will examine Document 3:8 for 2011–2012, the National Audit Office’s examination of the Food Safety Authority. The purpose of the study has been to assess the consistency of the activities of the Food Safety Authority and to provide foreseen efficiency gains. The following issues have been addressed: To what extent is the Food Authority consistent with the users? To what extent has the establishment of the Food Safety Authority provided foreseen efficiency gains? Has the MATS supervisory system contributed to more efficient and consistent procedures? To what extent does the Ministry of Agriculture’s management and follow-up of the Food Safety Authority ensure that the activities of supervision are consistent and effective? The study has had a main focus on the exercise of supervision in the Food Authority. Supervision accounts for about two thirds of the total time spent by supervision. What, then, is the conclusion to the uniform procedure? It's far from good enough! The study shows that there are wide variations in decisions taken by the National Food Safety Authority’s regional and district offices in similar supervisory, approval and complaint cases. Offices consider differently both the seriousness and the extent of the cases and the strength of the penalties applied. The differences identified are very unfortunate in relation to the administrative principle of non-discrimination. Individuals and traders are affected by the proceedings of the Food Safety Authority and there is a clear risk of different conditions depending on where they are located in the country. This also increases the risk of economic losses and loss of reputation for no reason. Differences in procedures and decisions also increase the risk of supervision failing to implement measures necessary for reasons of health or animal welfare. The greatest possible level of non-discrimination is important for the overall trust depending on the administration. There is an overall committee which assumes that the Food Authority and the three departments concerned contribute to the substantially more equal treatment of supervision in similar cases. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party consider that, in the light of the report of the National Audit Office, the Ministry should assess whether the organisation of the Food Authority as it operates is appropriate. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Left also have a special comment on this subject. It is an overall committee which emphasises that the challenges of non-discrimination must be taken seriously and requires the Ministry of Ownership and Food Safety to contribute to a substantial reduction of the variation in the procedure. The Committee is also pleased that the Riksrevision will follow up on this and assess the impact of further measures. The Committee also requests that the follow-up be kept properly informed. What about the MATS oversight system? In no way satisfactory, you could say. The study has looked at whether MATS has contributed to more effective and consistent procedures. MATS is both a workflow and decision support system for the Food Authority and a self-service solution for external users. The total cost of the MATS project has been 322 million. kr. The duration of the proceedings of the Food Safety Authority, with few exceptions, has been felt to have been considerably longer with the introduction of MATS. MATS is not user-friendly and complicated, while the modules were not well developed before the system was started. The monitoring reports in MATS are not adapted to different recipients, the system may become too rigid, less flexible, etc. It is also mentioned that the quality of the supervisory reports has deteriorated since the introduction of MATS, because the reports have become untransparent to the recipients. The issues of user-friendliness and other challenges in MATS need to be taken seriously, as this is a key issue for supervisory activities. There is an overall committee which presupposes significant improvements to the system and is continuously working in this field. We ask the Ministry to follow up, and we ask the Stortinget to be briefed on this work in connection with the presentation of the 2013 State Budget. So until the issue of conversion has led to cost reductions. The National Audit Office’s study was aimed at identifying the extent to which the establishment of supervision has provided foreseen efficiency gains. The assumption of size was a reduction of 10 pst. in relation to the operation of previous inspections. As stated in the Committee's observations in the opinion, there is some inconspicuousness in this field. And questions can be asked about whether the planned cost reductions have been achieved – in line with the Storting assumption. The Ministry has also acknowledged that the lack of consistency in the cost of extraordinary expenditure has made it difficult to determine the extent of cost reduction. So to the question of to what extent the management and follow-up of the Food Authority by the Ministry of Owners is going to work. As I have pointed out earlier in my article, there is a lack of reliability in the Food Safety Authority's own resource use data base, including uncertainty about how much has actually been used for conversion, and how much has been used for normal operation. MATS weaknesses have been identified – in creation, phase-in and maintenance and functionality. Furthermore, there are clearly significant weaknesses in achieving consistent supervision. Presis governance information is an important prerequisite for good governance, and there is reason to ask questions about whether the Ministry of Ownership has followed up adequately. The conditions identified are unfortunate and may have an impact on food safety and animal welfare and create a level playing field for traders. There is an overall committee that considers that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food should closely monitor developments in supervision, including raising the quality of management information from supervision. The Committee has also noted that the Ministry has a focus on this. Then to the other notes shown in the setting. In particular, animal welfare is promoted. The Committee has noted that the study underpinning Document 3:8 does not measure whether the Food Safety Authority has achieved its efficacy objectives, such as: «safe food», «animal welfare», etc. In the case of animal welfare, it is noted that supervisory campaigns are generally alerted and carried out in dialogue with industries. Then critical conditions can be hidden in front. It is also the case that tip-based control requires that the animal husbandry is visible to persons other than those who decapitating or mistreating the animals. The new Animal Welfare Act, adopted in spring 2009, provides a good basis for responding to the animal welfare challenges. It is hoped that the Food Authority will give priority to follow-up on animal welfare issues. Finally, I would like to refer to the special comment of the Progress Party and the Left where we ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with an investigation into different management models for animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e227	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and thorough examination of the Committee's comments on an important investigation. From the government's side, we are grateful that the National Audit Office has chosen to examine the Food Authority, as it is very important for us that the supervision functions properly. Both for animal welfare, for producers and for all of us, it is very important. Although the case spokesperson had a good review, I would like to highlight some points. The first is the importance of non-discrimination. Professional judgement and local knowledge are important in the proceedings, but there is also carelessness and equal treatment. It is a joint committee which understands that the ministry states that: ‘The objective of closeness to users and local knowledge of individual activities, together with a targeted regulatory framework, indicates that it is difficult to achieve complete consistency in individual cases’. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that a goal of the highest possible non-discrimination must be the basis for the work of the Food Safety Authority. We expect that the measures the department has taken with the Food Authority will lead to that. It is important that such a thorough workflow and decision support system as MATS, which is set up just to achieve better procedures through ease of use for food and external users, is precisely that: user-friendly. When it is reported that such an instrument leads to longer procedures and is not user-friendly, i.e. to exactly the opposite of what was intended to establish the system, this must be taken seriously. The National Audit Office exemplified in its report that the faster clarification of fundamental issues in the Food Safety Authority, increased knowledge-sharing before the establishment and follow-up of the MATS supervisory system could be measures that would lead to more fair handling of matters. The committee believes that it is positive that the ministry in its answer expresses that they are some of the Riksrevision, and that they consider it important to achieve that goal. 11,000 animal welfare supervision is carried out in accordance with the animal welfare rules of the year. It is about the same level as before the Food Authority was established, and a much higher number than before the task became a governmental responsibility. The Committee’s plurality suggests that priority should be given to monitoring animal welfare issues. The Animal Welfare Act gives the Food Authority more opportunities than before to deliver this better within the existing management model. Greater emphasis must be placed on controls that do not allow the user to pre-cover critical conditions, such that they can be pre-attended by pre-notification checks. Controls that are based on external tips may be useful, but they depend on others to see the vanity and that it is visible to any tips. The investigation, as the case-speaker pointed out, does not measure whether the Food Authority has achieved its efficacy objectives, for example ‘safe food’ and ‘welfare’. Nevertheless, it is important to bear in mind that ensuring good animal welfare and safe food is the primary task of the Food Safety Authority, and that controls must be organised to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e249	There is no need to make an alternative dossier – I refer you to the rapporteur’s articles, which were good and comprehensive. However, I would like to raise just one issue, and there is a lack of uniform treatment. To put it another way, you feel that similar cases are treated differently. It is particularly pointed out by industry that, for example: the food industry which has departments in different parts of the country experiences that a product or process can be authorised in a part of the country and be criticised or not approved in another part of the country. The opposition parties point out – with slightly different formulations, on pages 7 and 8 of the vote – that the structure of the Food Safety Authority should also be subject to a reassessment. The question is whether complaints should be dealt with at regional offices or be dealt with centrally. It is felt that today’s method of treatment produces different results in similar cases. I ask the Council of State to take this point into account in its review, even if it is delivered by the opposition parties. Normally, there is something that governments ignore when you don't get criticism from their own parties, but in this particular case, I think it should be stressed that there is an overall committee that points out that lack of uniform treatment is a problem, and that is the important thing. Then I think it should be stressed that three out of four opposition parties actually contribute to the exercise of some degree of self-criticism here, because it was under the previous government that the structure was determined. Both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have their share of responsibility for it and are now asking for this part of the structure to be reviewed with a view to achieving more uniform procedure. I doubt that it can only be done by new instructions and new circulars, so the structure must also be willing to look at from the Council of State. My observation that there is an element of self-criticism here is an attempt to get the Council of State to look at such a comment with something more goodwill than what is usually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e258	Food surveillance has an incredibly wide range of work tasks, ranging from plant diseases on ornamental crops, the content and conditions of growth for food plants, animals, animal welfare and animal production environments to the content of the finished products sold in the shops and of which we, as citizens, live and must be safe for health and well-being, so that one can have good health. So it's an incredibly extensive work from ground to table, and the Food Authority has a wide range of tools. I want to start with the need for the Food Safety Authority to continue to make a very strong priority, that a constant cant over the situation that one is set to manage, and that a thing to gather power, to use a concrete pictorial expression, in the areas where it is most important to get something done. For no matter how extensive a food inspection is, in the entire width that I briefly sketched, at last there will be questions about the responsibility of individual people, i.e. freedom under responsibility, and how one follows it in relation to what will happen. We have some examples that the Food Authority is quite “lover” in the ministry, to use the careful expression, and goes in areas that may be of little importance, while a person refuses to enter into perhaps difficult issues, which I will discuss later. As others have noted, there is a significant variation in the treatment of similar matters of supervision and complaint by the Food Safety Authority, and it is maritimely essential that an improvement is made in this area. The Ministry of Agriculture is in dialogue with the Food Safety Authority on measures to facilitate, as appropriate, a more coherent procedure. It's interesting what's being said here about the focus on the organisational model. Governments should focus on the organisational model and whether the three-member organisational model is appropriate in the future. There may be strong arguments for more local offices, or so-called district offices, working in the field in this large area, combined with a head office that has an overview and ability to collect cancer in the areas that are most important. Thus, one will not see such a need for regional offices, as was done when setting up it all. With regard to the area of the MATS supervisory system, there is probably an example of an incredible amount of money being spent — in this case, 322 million. kr – to develop such a system as was intended to ensure, inter alia. management information required. When it has led to longer processing times and the quality of the supervision has been impaired by the fact that there have been more unbridled reports, it is a major cross-broadcast. The Council of State takes note of the fact that an overall committee has asked the Stortinge to be briefed on these issues in the 2013 State Budget. Cost developments in the Food Authority are also an important theme. Over the period 2004-2008, a reduction in costs was foreseen and the Riksrevision has questioned whether the reported cost reduction is in line with the Storting assumptions. However, the point in cost reduction is that the ethos has a focus on what is most important to do. If one does it effectively, I think the elected representatives have a great deal of understanding of the use of money in this area. Animal welfare, on which more people have been involved, is an incredibly important and central theme, and it is very gratifying that many people are concerned about it. Animal welfare is linked to domestic animals, pets and wild animals. Domestic animals and pets may be what the Food Authority gets most out of it. We have many examples of situations that are very inhuman – in the sense of little animal-friendly – for both livestock and pets. I want to bring up something related to domestic animals. The pets must feel good, to put it simply. We're going to have a production, through our livestock, that provides safe food. Here, in a good deal of cases, you get into a very demanding dilemma between the consideration of good animal welfare and the consideration of cheap food. The best example in Norway is the production of chicken. It would have been gratifying for many environments if, on a professional basis, the Food Authority, like the department it is, could participate in the discussion on animal welfare, for example. in the case of the production of chicken. In this way, we could have the supervision – through the professional knowledge that the control body has in all parts of this production process – to participate in the debate, so that those responsible for the production of chicken can get the necessary professional input that would improve production. I'm not going to go into production, but there's room for great improvements. I have to say that the way in which the veterinary students engage in this field today is exemplary in my opinion. There should have been several such veterinary student communities that address different areas and which, through their expertise, work for improvement. It's another area I'll also draw attention to. It's the Food Agency and the finished products, as we find them in the refrigerator or otherwise stored in our food stores. This applies both to product information on the products and not least to control the content of the products. We saw late a few days ago a notice that chicken is now being combined with salt water. It's a lucrative thing to have more salt water in chicken, because salt water is very cheap. It is therefore essential that the Food Safety Authority has both legislation and control procedures that enable consumers to obtain the most objective information on what this product is – and if we do not want this product, what are necessary regulatory changes, so that we can have safe food. If food — in different ways — is not safe, the consequences of it do not have to come until many years later. It'll be too late. Man is, as I said, at the top of the food chain, and thus the pigs accumulate in human organs. Some organs can be replaced, but most cannot be replaced. This is most relevant to public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e286	The President was a moment of doubt as to whether the concept of'swine' is really a parliamentary expression, but as long as we are talking about animal welfare, it is natural to allow it to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e289	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for the work and for the introduction. Much of what has been said here is a broad consensus. There are two points that I want to make on the left hand side. The first concerns non-discrimination and fair treatment. As the representative Per-Kristian Foss said, we sat in the Council of State chair when these changes were made. This is also an expression of a great degree of admittance that all the systems don't work perfectly, sail if we've made them. This does not mean that the Council of State should not take note of it and ensure that the steps taken to ensure full legal certainty are taken, including those under the control of that authority. What I want to spend the most time on is animal welfare. I think we're developing a problem, when there's so much distance between what people see as right, and what we actually have the power to intervene, and understanding to intervene. When such distances occur over time, it undermines the systems we have. There is becoming such a big problem for the Food Authority that there is a call for completely different supervision and entirely different approaches to tackling those challenges. It should be taken over by the Council of State, because we have a check that is not based on random checks, but on alert checks, and on giving tips. And a lot of animals in Norway today live in so closed environments that it's just the one who's responsible for them, who ever sees how they're doing. It is then important that those responsible for carrying out such checks have good competence, both in relation to the animal species to be checked, in relation to the requirements which should apply to each animal species and in relation to the needs of the species. Then I actually very much agree with what the representative Lundtegen said in relation to animal welfare. I think this is one of the indicators that customers would like to choose from. They want to choose food where they know that production has happened in a humane way, if I can use that word – we don't have a good word for humanity to animals, but so, in a good animal welfare way. I think customers will choose that. I think it's one of the indicators that's important to people. That's why it's important that we have oversight systems that make people feel safe about it, and I don't think everyone feels safe about it today. I think we have a little too many stories about grip that are not being taken, and where care is most important for the one who cannot take care of the animals, and not for the animals it is about. So here it's both about having a good professionalism, getting a supervisory system that's related to people's legal perception of how such supervision should be against living beings who can't fulfill their rights, and it's about having good quality food, and that this is one of the indicators that I think people will choose from. Then we have to feel safe about it. I think the council must admit that he has a great challenge on the exactly animal welfare side. If we can't do it well enough, the pressure will probably come to get a separate unit that's only working on it, which only has competence on it, and which has a great opportunity to intervene, to get too big, and then the Food Authority will be deprived of this job. That's why it's important to look at other ways to do it, and that's why the Left is behind the remark, together with the Progress Party, that the Council of State should look at how that part can be organised in order to have humanity in animal welfare as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e306	Let me first express satisfaction at the fact that the Riksrevision has carried out an administrative audit of the Food Safety Authority following the food management reform in 2004. This was a comprehensive and complex reform of the Norwegian administration. I believe that it is essential for both learning and improvement that evaluations and audits be carried out after some time. Since 2004, the Food Safety Authority has made considerable efforts to establish common systems, common culture and adaptations to tasks and staffing. My clear impression is that this has been carried out in a solid and flexible way, and that the Food Agency has had and has good professional quality and delivery skills. In fact, food supervision has a good reputation in the population. In my view, the good reputation is a result of professional strength, openness and the capacity of the establishment to show the power of action when required. It is also important to remember that the state of Norway is good, in most areas very good, with regard to the main impact objectives of the Food Safety Authority on safe food, good plant and animal health and good animal welfare. The National Audit Office’s study points to areas for improvement, both for the Ministry as the head of the department and for the Food Authority. In particular, this applies to consistency in the oversight activities of the Food Safety Authority. I agree with both the National Audit Office and the Committee that the differences identified in the Food Safety Authority’s decisions in similar cases are very unfortunate. Indiscriminate discrimination shall be avoided. Although much good work has been done in the Food Safety Authority for more consistent supervision, there is no doubt that the development of unity remains a key challenge for the Food Safety Authority. I take this seriously, and the Ministry and the Food Authority are going to work purposefully in the future in order to balance different concerns in a way that does not lead to indiscriminate discrimination. While exercising uniform legislative experience, the Food Safety Authority shall also take into account professional judgement and local competence in the meeting with users. I am pleased that the Committee understands that complete consistency in individual cases cannot be achieved. The Food Authority has already followed up the comments of the National Audit Office, including: through an action plan to develop more coherent supervision. The legislation is also being cleaned up to make it more accessible. At the same time, the MATS computer system is improved, which is used for oversight. In addition, professional management is strengthened and tools are developed to measure the adequacy of supervision. I can mention that precise management information was also the theme of the management meeting with the Food Authority last week. In response to the representative Foss' request to look at the review procedure and the organisation, work is already under way. The Food Safety Authority is now also looking at the internal organisation of complaint handling. The Food Safety Authority’s oversight system, MATS, is referred to in the Riksrevision study as less user-friendly and results in longer processing. The Ministry considers MATS to be an important measure to contribute to the unity of the Food Safety Authority. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the last partial delivery of the MATS system was put into operation in June 2010. Food surveillance has had some challenges in the phase-in of MATS, which is not considered unnatural when a new ICT system is to be implemented in a large organisation. I would like to stress that the Riksrevision carried out its audit just when MATS was recently in regular operation. Both the Food Authority and the Ministry will pay attention to the necessary and sensible improvement and further development of MATS. As requested by the Committee, I would like to explain in more detail the work on the revision of MATS in the 2013 budget proposal. Then I am pleased that the National Audit Office confirms that the establishment of the Food Safety Authority has reduced net operating costs, compared with previous supervision. I would nevertheless dwell a little on the Riksrevision conclusion that there is reason to ask questions about whether the reported cost reduction is in line with the Storting assumptions. The Ministry has placed great emphasis on meeting the Enlargement’s efficiency assumption, which resulted in a cost reduction of 10 pst. Careful account has been taken of the withdrawal of efficiency gains and other budgetary changes in the annual budget proposals to which the Storting has agreed. I have had some comments on the approach of the Riksrevision, but this is thoroughly explained in my letter contained in the committee's position. My main point in this context is that the Riksrevision in its final opinion has not reproduced what has been a key point in my feedback to the Riksrevision. When assessing the cost reduction achieved, it is in my opinion a significant point that, in the years 2006-2010, the Storting has granted budget increases to the Food Authority because the department has been given new, modified or specifically prioritised tasks. This was partly in parallel with a total efficiency gain over the Food Authority’s budget of 100 million in the years 2005-2008. kr, i.e. 10 pst. The National Audit Office questions whether the Ministry ensures adequate and precise management information from the Food Authority. Food surveillance is a young organization. The ability of supervision to document production and effects has changed considerably since its inception. The Ministry emphasises that this provides a basis for dynamics in the improvement of management parameters. The management parameters have therefore been adjusted to make them more efficient and in line with the documentation capacity of the Food Authority. The 2012 letter of allocation sets out several efficiency and production reporting indicators. It has also included reporting requirements that can measure to some extent the development of unity. So to the discussion about animal welfare. I would like to stress again that the Food Authority has a good reputation in the population. I believe that the standard of animal husbandry in Norway is generally good, and I would like to stress that the responsibility for animal welfare rests with the owner, or keeper, of animals. Food surveillance has competence in animal health and animal welfare and is present throughout the country. Both the good professional competence of the supervisory authorities and the importance of efficient resource use argue that the Food Safety Authority should be the supervisory authority for animal welfare. I mention this because it was taken up here in an article earlier today. The monitoring model for animal welfare was addressed by the Stortinget as late as spring 2009 in connection with the treatment of new animal welfare laws. Let me stress that I attach great importance to the prioritisation of the supervision of animal welfare by the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e351	It is clear that the Council of State believes that everything about animal welfare is perfect, as the system is, and that people's trust is great. We've had revelations lately, revelations that not only show that bad things are done against animals, but also show great paralysis in terms of what is the police's responsibility, what is the responsibility of the Food Authority, who is pulling out, and when they come. Is there anyone at all who has had authority to intervene in the cases we have seen? All of this is about an increasing pressure on you that we need a separate animal police force – which you have in a number of other countries. This is a continuous debate in the Left. Does the Council of State really think that this whole part is perfectly handled, that there are no uncertainties about authority, that all of these matters have been well handled, and that there is no room for improvement to any degree?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e360	I've never claimed that everything is perfect. There is a lot that needs to be improved in the work of the Food Safety Authority. It's constantly underlined. It has also been said in this Chamber in this context, and in previous discussions. We work on the part of the Department, and there is constant work on the part of the Food Authority to improve the system – improving the work on animal welfare and, above all, ensuring that you have follow-up under laws and regulations. When it comes to liability, as the representative of Skei Grande asks, I am not aware that there are any uncertainties about who is responsible. It is quite obvious that the Food Authority is responsible for following up animal welfare. They will, and they will respond to the warning that comes. So the question of an animal police force is also being considered and presented as a matter of resource use — in addition to the question of whether a good enough job is being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e368	In the extension of the same question raised by the representative Skei Grande: the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have called for an assessment of the appropriateness of the organisation of the Food Authority. The representative, Lundtegen, also opened his speech in order to look at the organisation. I'm not 100 pst. I am sure that I have understood what the Council of State means. In the pulpit he said instead that the organization was excellent. Apart from the complaint handling, he would not look at it. When the representative Skei Grande brought up the issue of animal protection, he was more unclear in his answer. So I would like to ask the Council of State whether he believes the organisation of the Food Authority is good enough and appropriate enough, or whether he will look at concrete changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e377	After all, we are talking about different topics in the context of organisation – let's stress it. We have a three-way system – a local, a regional and a central organisation. It was introduced in 2004. In retrospect, there has been a review, and there have also actually been changes in the responsibility between the three joints. I absolutely do not reject the fact that it can be seen at this tripartite organization. I take with me the signals that have come from this room. It is important that we constantly work with organizational development. So that's the second point, about complaint handling. It has already started, as I said in my post, a work to see if the review process is appropriate today – as I also understood was the representative Foss' question. In the case of animal welfare, I would like to stress that the Food Authority is organised throughout the country. They have a short way to the different actors. I just have to ask myself whether it is appropriate to set up a new organisation to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e386	I want to follow up on what other representatives say about animal welfare. We have had an episode, as the Council of State knows – I have previously asked him two written questions about a matter up in Troms in the case of a horse farm, where there are conditions that are not good. We have seen that the Council of State has done a good job there until now, and the Food Authority has gone in and started to make fines. But yesterday the matter escalated. We're looking at Trav24.no, we're looking at other media, and we're looking at some of the footage coming in, that, among other things. horses – newborn foals – stay in the snow, lie in ice water and are not kept. I know that the Council of State is aware of this situation. So my question is now: When the Food Authority does not come up with increased controls, will the Council of State today intervene and make contact with the Food Authority, so that animal trading up in Troms can stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e393	The President will have a great deal of understanding as to whether the Council of State does not wish to conduct specific proceedings on individual cases in the Grand Duchy, but the Council of State is nevertheless given the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e396	It is correct, as the representative, Mr. Träldal, has said, that I have raised this matter. The Food Authority has worked continuously – after this was taken up – to follow up the special case, so I choose to say a few words about it. Let me just underline in connection with the very matter that was reported yesterday: A worry message was sent to the Food Safety Authority at 0 p.m. 10 a.m. yesterday. I don't know. At 10.30 a.m., the Food Agency was on this farm – I have been reported on today – and it has been followed up in the sense that the animal owner has also provided proper treatment in the situation that had arisen. So, the foal was taken into the house. That was her mother's diet. That was, as the Food Authority reported to me today, a good situation right there. The Food Safety Authority is continuously following up this matter, and I believe that the Food Safety Authority is now doing a good job in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e405	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e408	I'll talk a little bit more about animal welfare. In the comments of the Progress Party, we ask for an ‘investigation on different management models for animal welfare’. I think it's time to do that, and it's important to get this investigation going. Available information suggests that food surveillance is not sufficiently able to monitor and monitor animal welfare throughout the country. There may also be grounds for considering another model for the organisation of the supervision of animal welfare and the development of the rules. In my opinion, an evaluation of the results of the Food Safety Authority in the field of animal welfare should be carried out from the adoption of the new Animal Welfare Act in 2009 until now. Then you can ask yourself to what extent the goal of the Greatness of animal welfare according to the law has been achieved, what types of tasks are pointing out to be problematic, and what are the reasons why this is problematic. An investigation should also be carried out into different management models for animal welfare, including: the organisation of animal protection in a separate establishment, equivalent to the animal health supervision of the former State, or the organisation of animal protection as a separate department of the Food Safety Authority with its own inspectors. Then you can ask yourself which methods of supervision can be improved. The supervisory model of food safety, called risk-based supervision, has not worked in the field of animal welfare. It's e.g. remain unidentified objective criteria for animal husbandry risk. In the Annual Report of the Food Authority in 2010, we read the following: ‘Regional surveillance project to identify objective selection criteria for animal husbandry with a high risk of poor animal welfare showed that the criteria tested were of limited value.’ There are things that you should take over. We also know that the 2009 Animal Welfare Act actually provides a basis for the use of more instruments than previous animal welfare laws did. It's too early to say what effect this will have. At the same time, there is a general impression that the Food Safety Authority is showing restraint in its use. Active use of instruments is a prerequisite for law enforcement in accordance with legislator expectations. We've been through multiple episodes of restraint. We see it, among other things. at the top of Finnmark. We see it in West Finland, especially on reindeer operations. There we see that you have too high a number. Professional authorities have said, and you are also in favour of it in the ministry, that you have to reduce the number of tamrein by approx. Fifty thousand. We can also go into the NRK and look at episodes. A while ago, the NRK had a report that there were lots of animals that were found, who had directly starved in the heel because of lack of food. In fact, I think – with all due respect – that the Food Safety Authority is not doing its job. When alarm messages are received, and an animal that is not such as an animal should be found, it is appropriate to intervene with them and slaughter the animals so that they do not suffer. We have also received feedback from the slaughterhouses, which can report against 20 pst. lower slaughter weight and above 20 pst. In some places – it is even so bad that in some places you have problems selling reindeer. It's not internal file because it's so skinny. I believe – with all due respect – that the Food Authority is not proactive enough, and they are not using their instruments properly. In fact, it is those who are responsible today for animals not suffering. So here the Council of State should, in my opinion, intervene harder and ensure that more pressure is put on it. I know that the Council of State has not entirely agreed with me there in several other debates, but all documentation shows that what I am saying is right. We have also seen research reports administered in Tromsø that can prove that there is too little food. I also want to go back a little bit to the matter we have up, the horse farm in Troms that I asked about during the line change. You've been doing one thing here for six years. Decisions have been taken, but the decisions taken have not been followed up. Then nothing happens until the matter is brought to the Council of State – so a single matter has to be brought to the Council of State. Here, State Council Breck has actually done a good job of getting the supervision started and so far also with the answer we got. But what worries me, when you have an ongoing case that is as intense as this, is that the Food Safety Authority is no longer on hold and is going on checks that have not been notified. I think they should. With unannounced checks, by getting out of office time, at the time when you don't expect checks, I think you get a completely different effect. The representative Skei Grande also pointed out the importance of unannounced monitoring, and I fully support that. Should supervision have a certain effect, it should not be known whether the checks are carried out, because it is possible to adjust accordingly. For the Progress Party, we want to get a case to Stortinget where we look at other opportunities to organise the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e443	Of course, food supervision has a very important role to play. It's going to check both everything that's produced and that what we get is produced in such a way that it's sound. Then there is a question of how long the good reputation they have – as the Minister for Agriculture pointed out – lasts, with the objections contained in the report. Here is every reason to take a lot of the objections seriously – this with non-discrimination and that kind of thing. The reason why I wanted to take the floor is that I have had some enquiries from deer breeders. Nissan food production is quite important. It's an important district industry, and it's also important for the Norwegian food market that we might get a larger range of production. The signals I get from deer breeders are quite serious, because they demand a service position at the Food Authority, and they demand that the Food Authority itself know the legislation they administer. Then we talk about everything from how to kill, how to slaughter, how to transport live animals and how to transport them. Here's the code that meets itself, and the deer farmers I've been talking to are only told that this is the breeder's own responsibility to get involved. When they then seek advice, and the Food Authority itself does not find out until the forms to which they refer are completed, it only remains there. And then we're right down to animal welfare too, because I've got signals from deer breeders that just don't get slaughtered. This is deer, wild animals that go within fences. Obviously, you can't have an unlimited number of animals inside the fence. They're multiplying. Nature goes its way, and I've heard stories about calves that have starved in the heels of fences because you can't figure out how to handle the slaughters. I think that's a lot of serious signals. I think it is very good that the Council of State Breck has already started a work on how to organise this, because there is no doubt that this goes on different interpretations in different districts. I don't think you're meeting the same problem in all the districts, but you're hitting it in some districts. So at least in relation to the kind of special productions that deer farming is, one might consider – as the Right writes in a note – looking at the structure. Perhaps you should simply add the kind of special niche production to one office, so that you can develop skills and become a service institution for the producers who are doing it – for these are people who live by producing food that is perceived to be of good quality, which is perceived to be pure, and where you perceive it to be good during production. They live on the very concept that the Food Authority is supposed to defend, and there are producers who are very concerned about producing properly. But they therefore meet a code that for a single farmer and a single producer out there who is doing this – perhaps a little bit on the side of other things – is simply not possible to get through. It is a recommendation to include it in the process that I understand is already underway, to look at the organisation and how to do this as something that can be handled outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e456	As I was in my first post, the Swedish Food Safety Authority has a very comprehensive field of work and is facing increasingly demanding challenges. It's a field that I want to go a little bit closer to. It's animal health and animal diseases. As a result of the veterinary agreement, it is now much easier to move animals across borders. Norway has, in a good deal of areas and from our climate and from our previous work on animal health, a less disease-intensive image and less infectious pressure than what countries beyond the south have. I want, in the name of public information, to draw up two examples. One is called the ganglorm of the fox. It's a tiny little worm that, among other things, is present in bees and cats, which then have an intermediate host in small rodents and mice that then develops cysts. When small rodents and mice with these cysts are eaten by a reef, the reef becomes an endvert – therefore the name gangworm. This tiny gangworm will then be able to infect humans, and man can be an intermediate host. Man then develops cysts and bladders that come and evolve toward the liver. In Alpine areas, 50 pst. of the reefs and 5 pst. of the bicks infected, and in those areas approximately: one person per 100,000 also infected. The gangworm of foxes and cats shall be treated with antiparasitic agents during cross-border transport, but, as we know, it is not easy to control it. Another example is broken. It's a bacterial disease, a streptococci, that's in the horse family. It infects animals into animals or from stalls to animals. There is an inflammation of the lymph nodes under the chin or under the ear. The symptoms may be such that the animals can live with it, or they may have a very strong rash with strong disease images. Kverke is a horse disease that is much more common in Denmark than in Norway, it is widespread in Sweden, and the Food Authority uses a lot of resources to prevent the further spread of kverke, which can cause significant suffering to animals in the horse family. It is such that on importation horses are to be examined by a veterinarian, but if the jaw is chronic, it is difficult to identify what is the correct picture. These are two examples of diseases that perhaps many in the industry and those that have pets are not fully aware of. It is important that the Food Safety Authority has professional information that the public understands, and that it can understand the consequences of helping to take in animals infected with a disease, which we have been ashamed to have in Norway at all — or to a small extent — in the past. This is great and exciting biology to inform about, and there are many young people who are very concerned about these relationships, so I hope that the Food Authority can use a larger part of its information activity in this area, while systematically working for a stricter regulation to reduce the movement of animals across borders, because that is one of the main problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e475	I take the floor to comment on some of the contributions that have come after I made an article earlier, and also to stress that I think this is an important and good debate. Let me just point out that when we talk about organization, it's of course that you work with organization all the time. However, the issue of the introduction of animal police is quite different from reorganising or looking at the internal organisation of food supervision. I believe that we need to focus on the latter rather than looking for completely new solutions, which probably have a much higher resource consumption, and which need not be anything better at all. I would like to comment on Mr. Träldal's comments. He mentioned animal welfare in reindeer operations. Let me just stress that there has been a theme that we've discussed in this room before, and that we have a lot of focus on. I want to point out that it is the reindeer owners, like other keepers and owners, who are responsible for animal welfare for their own animals. They are obliged to look after their own flocks, to feed the flock and to kill any debilitated animals. Both the reindeer management and the Food Safety Authority have followed closely and continue to follow closely the situation in Finnmark, and separate emergency teams are established throughout the reindeer management to assess any need for exceptional measures in case of difficult situations. As far as I know, in this season this has been unnecessary – it has been well. Then it was the representative of Lundtegen who took up animal welfare in the chicken production. Let me just inform you that the Food Safety Authority has prioritised the supervision of chicken meat production, and they have recently carried out a thorough surveillance campaign. There it was that the crew were selected after risk assessments, and I must be the first to say that the results of this supervisory campaign were not good enough. It's too bad, the industry has to tighten up. A new regulation is also being proposed which will strengthen animal welfare in the production of chickens for fattening. As I see it, good animal welfare shall pay off. In the draft consultation, there is talk of adding up to a differentiation of the density requirements according to the animal welfare characteristics of the individual crew. Finally, the situation in Troms, on which the representative of Tjældal came up: Let me just underline that the matter is being worked very hard on by the Department and the Food Authority. In addition to the fact that a job was done yesterday when this alarm came, there was also supervision a few days ago, so it is carefully followed up. I am also very concerned, in such a situation, to convey that when the Food Safety Authority reports that the situation has improved, we should also take it as a positive sign and support up the owner who works to improve his situation. The emphasis has been placed on following it closely up, and I feel very confident that the Food Safety Authority has good control of the situation and is following the situation up well in the future. Finally, I would just like to stress that there is a great deal of focus on animal welfare in the public debate, and that is a major focus on the Food Authority in the public debate. We work closely with the Department to follow up and respond to the challenges. In my opinion, the Food Authority is doing a thorough job of reviewing its organisation and not least following up on what we have had a great deal of focus on in this matter, so that it becomes more consistent. Equal treatment is provided in the case-law, and predictability is achieved when meeting the challenge of the Food Safety Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e492	I would like to thank the Stortinget for a good debate and wish the Council of State luck in clearing up the very significant challenges raised by the report. I look forward to feedback, as the committee has requested in its comments. The debate has also given us some information, through the contributions of the representatives of Gundersen, Lundtigen and Tåldal, and highlighted further challenges in this sector. That has been enlightening to hear. Finally, I would like to express the hope that although animal protection is a small part of the work of the Food Safety Authority, in the future more attention will be given to this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e500	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e516	In 2011, 269 new HIV infections were diagnosed in Norway – 190 men and 79 women. The Public Health Institute still considers HIV infection to be one of our most serious infectious diseases, with major consequences for individuals and society. Among men having sex with men, MSM, 97 HIV cases were detected in 2011 compared with 85 in 2010. This is the highest number of HIV positives ever detected in this group and represents a three-fold increase in the number of cases compared to the situation ten years ago. The proportion of HIV-positive MSMs with a migrant background has been increasing in recent years. Of the 97 cases of infected notified in 2011, there are 27 with a migrant background. 17 of these were infected after arrival in Norway. The extent of unprotected sex among men having sex with men is significant. At the same time, a significant proportion of MSMs do not test for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases often enough. A report that the Institute of Public Health has contributed to shows that 30 p.m. did not use condoms during the last intercourse with a random partner. This proportion is higher among HIV positive participants. At least one third were uncertain about their HIV status, and only 56 pst. had been testing for a sexually transmitted disease in the last year. The use of alcohol and illicit drugs was widespread, particularly among HIV-positive respondents. 72 of the Norwegian survey participants indicated that they were HIV positive. Most of these had heard HIV reported in a negative way. The studies also revealed homosexuality. Almost 40 pst. The last year was reported by respondents in Norway. These are very serious numbers. Norway has committed itself through the United Nations Resolution to reduce new infections by 50 pst. So in one of the richest countries in the world, with a high level of education and good access to healthcare, the results show the exact opposite of the commitments Norway has through the UN. We've failed. The government’s HIV strategy for the period 2009–2014, which is now halfway, has as one of two main objectives the reduction of new infections, especially in groups with high HIV vulnerability. Never before has the number of newly infected persons in this group been higher than in 2011. The objectives of the government's strategy are: increasing knowledge reduce stigma and discrimination reduce sneezing reduce darkness through early detection and testing I dare say that the development is going in the wrong direction on all of these four targets. Young people today know less about HIV than in the 1990s. For the first time, a HIV positive that has not infected another man is accused by the State Attorney after the HIV paragraph, we have never had any more newly infected men having sex with men, and the Health Committee's low-threshold project of risk groups is hanging in a thin thread because of bureaucracy in the Health Directorate. So it's ironing, ironing, ironing on all four strands of the strategy. There is a need for the HIV strategy to be followed up through both resources and political attention. We have to use the knowledge we have, and last, but not least, we have to make sure that offers that we know work, get started quickly. Condom is the most effective contraceptive. It has no side effects, it's cheap, it prevents HIV and other infectious sex diseases, and it reduces the risk of cancer – a fantastic tool to use in many areas. But why don't we spend more time and resources communicating this to young people – to put it that way – in all ages? The Health Directorate, which is responsible for these issues, is also proposing free contraception for young girls. What does that mean? Indeed, the authorities will promote and offer a more uncertain contraceptive, which does not prevent infectious diseases and cancer, which has side effects for the girls who use it and which are expensive for society. But the most serious thing is that if free pills are offered to all young girls, we as the authorities have once and for all stated that prevention is the responsibility of the girls – the boys can drop the condom, the girls take responsibility – while at the same time we are at risk of not having enough money to distribute free condoms to risk groups and young people. This is closely related to the work against HIV infection. The most effective thing is condom. Young boys have to learn to use condoms from the debuts sexually, whether it's with girls or with boys. This is also linked to the principle of equal liability. Two who have sex have equal responsibility for protecting themselves – whether it's a girl or a boy, a HIV positive, one who hasn't tested himself recently, or one who's tested himself recently. There is a need to raise the general level of knowledge on HIV and sexually transmitted diseases. It protects, it reduces stigma, and it leads to transparency. But we also don't get away from the fact that the majority of new infections come in clearly defined risk groups. Studies of risk groups show that there are clear common features between those who are HIV positives that infect others and those who have a behavior that causes them to become infected. We need to establish lowthreshold testing and counselling services where these meet. It will work quickly, and with the infection rates that you now have for 2011, this should be an immediate measure for which the Minister of Health will take responsibility at the latest in the revised national budget. We have to use the knowledge that we have about the underlying reasons why men who have sex with men infect others, and that those who are infected have a risk behaviour that makes this happen. We must not only treat the symptoms but also go to the underlying causes. I deliberately use the term "men who have sex with men" because many of these are neither gay nor defined. Psychiatric problems and drug problems can be related to challenges related to their sexuality and identity. We see that a large group are men with immigrant backgrounds. They come from environments that have not come as far into the acceptance of homosexuality as what we have done in general in Norway. People who are infected with HIV have thus, in many cases, been struggling with their identity and sexuality – getting out as a homophile. Then they will be met with a new stigma, a disease that is also associated with prejudice and fear. Studies initially referred to relate to a double heat and stigmatisation, both for homophilia and for HIV infection. We have to learn from those who are HIV positive. They are our main resource in prevention. Their life experience needs to be used to create new prevention strategies, both to prevent someone from infecting others and to infect others. But it also means succeeding in providing HIV positives with better health care and good follow-up and help for more than infection. This is also very important for individuals and for prevention in relation to the mental challenges and possible drug problems. In Norway today, a person dies, not of HIV or AIDS, but with HIV, before getting AIDS. But it must not mean that the health care system settles down on the fact that HIV positives only need medical help to keep HIV infection in check. They also need to be helped with the underlying causes that in many cases led to their infection and help to deal with and live with a chronic disease. Then the healthcare system must listen and learn from the patient’s experience. In this context, I would like to highlight the work that Kim Fangen has done and is doing as a spokesman for patients. Then it is a paradox that social liberal Norway still has a HIV paragraph that criminalises the sexual lives of HIV positives. This has now been brought to the fore by the state attorney who has filed an action against HIV-positive Louis Gay, who has not infected another person, and who has carried out it as a ‘safer sex’, which is, in effect, what the health authorities recommend. I am aware that the Syse Committee is now working on this issue, but it is nevertheless necessary to bring this forward in this debate, because today's criminal law works against the prevention strategy and stigmatises HIV positive. I hope that today's debate may be the beginning of a renewed strong political commitment to reducing HIV reinfection, and to improve the situation of those who are HIV positive – which is really two sides of the same issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e555	In the last ten years, there has been a worrying increase in diagnosed HIV infection among men who have sex with men. This development is seen not only in Norway but also in the rest of Western Europe. Unfortunately, there are no clear signs that the trend will turn around with the first. 97 HIV cases were detected in 2011 among men having sex with men. It is the highest number of HIV positives ever detected in this group and a three-fold increase in the number of cases detected compared to 10 years ago. I look seriously at this negative development. There are many individual factors that need to be included to explain why this happens. It's about sexual transmission among men who travel in environments with high infection, that is, environments that include many individuals who live with HIV. Many of them don't know their own HIV status, and a decision not to protect themselves with condoms will be very risky. It's important that everyone who lives with HIV is given good help to master all aspects of life with HIV. We've been given effective medications that make a HIV infection about far more than a serious medical condition. We live with HIV in school and education, at work, in family life and in society for the rest. This means that more sectors than in the past need to pay attention to this issue. Cooperation is therefore an important part of the HIV strategy Acceptance and mastery – national HIV strategy [[2009-2014]] Both in Norway and internationally, services and interventions have largely managed HIVtematics isolated from other challenges. The strategy points to areas that are particularly prominent. We need a more integrated response in terms of services and actions, which sees the link between different HIV-related challenges. In Norway, we have a concentrated HIV epidemic. In other words, there are some groups in society that are more vulnerable to infection and live with HIV. Primary prevention must reflect this reality. The strategy therefore emphasises the need to target the groups at the highest risk of infection. Recently, we received the results of a European study on HIV and sexuality among men having sex with men. More than 2000 Norwegian men participated in this network survey. The study has provided very important knowledge on how to design measures to reduce HIV among men having sex with men. There are especially two findings that underline the main points of our HIV strategy. The first is that a price change is necessary in the case of unprotected sex. The study shows that 30 pst. had not used condoms in the last intercourse with a random partner. This figure shows that high-risk sexual behaviour is very common in environments with high risk of infection. Although we have provided good access to free condoms, the results show that it is not enough to have easy access to condoms. It is essential that authorities and civil society cooperate on actions that can contribute to changes in attitudes and that more people use condoms. The second is that many people in the target population do not test themselves often enough. At least one third were uncertain about their own HIV status, and only 56 pst. had been tested for a sexually transmitted infection in the last year. This means that more people can have a sexually transmitted infection or HIV without it being detected. It is essential that more people test themselves when they should, and that they become certain of their own HIV status, in order to limit their spread. We have data that shows that more than half of all people who get infected are infected by someone who doesn't know their own HIV status. It is therefore important that test offers are made more easily available to those who need it the most. For some it is to wait a week for the test response a barrier to get a sense of their own HIV status. This year, therefore, the effort is being made to provide rapid answers to rapid tests. A separate procedural book on this offer has been developed, which will be available to the services in these days. In order to better care for people living with HIV, the Health Directorate has conducted two courses in motivating conversations for health professionals working with HIV-positive people. Health South-East, in cooperation with the Health Directorate, has developed a learning and mastering course for HIV patients, and there is a separate patient council at Oslo University Hospital. Since the launch of the HIV strategy, we have received new research to show that successful medication can help prevent transmission. This is called ‘prevention treatment’. Such an approach is positive, but it may also challenge the important prevention work aimed at limiting risks through safer sex practices. Here we have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We are in the middle of the strategy period, and now we are reviewing the status of the work. Last week, a dialogue conference was held in which over 80 key actors participated and made recordings. Among other things, we got a message about just how we should put up the work with men who have sex with men. I think we have a good basis for setting out the course for how HIV work should be conducted during the rest of the strategy period, not least in terms of how we can reduce new infections among men who have sex with men. There's a lot of evidence that HIV might be eradicated over the next few generations. In this case, it will require increased testing, increased condom use, increased sexual autonomy — and it will require that authorities, civil society and not least those living with HIV cooperate against common goals. I will continue to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e592	For me, the following is a paradox: In the 1980s and 1990s, the attention given to HIV/AIDS was high. They made a strong commitment, got a lot of information, the matter had a lot of political attention and was given high priority also financially. Today, in a situation of high levels of infection, this is almost not the case. There is now, in 2012, a need to make a power take-off, not least related to lowthreshold testing. Getting control of this epidemic we are now facing requires a reduction in the numbers of darkness. That is, HIV positives, which think they are HIV negative, are understood by the need to practice safer sex, and motivate HIV negative men, who have a lot of risk sex with men, to change their sex behavior. It is about reducing health and consequences related to infections among HIV positive people and preventing and preventing further transmission to others. Environmentally-based HIV testing seems to be the most important strategic response to the figures now obtained from the Public Health Institute. This means that we need to provide more resources to the prevention organisations with which the Health Committee and the Norwegian health authorities are working. The Health Committee, which is the organisation that has been involved in this case from the beginning of the epidemic in the early 1980s, has still not established a basic allocation for its activities. The organisation lacks predictability similar to the rest of the field. In the 1980s and 1990s, they are allocated only to projects of the same size as they had, approx. 3.5 million. kr. I hope that the Minister of Health not only awaits the summary of the mid-term conference to the strategy, but actually takes on the newly infected figures that came in 2011 and even takes the initiative and prioritizes resources for the prevention work in this area in the revised national budget. It is also important to put in place the condom distribution online for men who have sex with men, for whom the Health Committee stood. Men who have sex with men meet on the Internet very often. That's what's the social meeting place. Having a simple offer there to be sent to condoms in an anonymous way, means that even those who do not define themselves as gay will be reached by this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e605	I must say that I do not feel that neither I nor the Ministry of Health have little attention to HIV, in this area in general and to the situation of those who are HIV positive. I think we have shown that through both organisation, initiative and strategy work. So you always have to ask yourself questions about doing the right things and making the right choices. Why is the increase so great, and why are so many people at risk of having sex and being infected with HIV? But it turns out that it's not just HIV infection you're exposed to, you're also exposed to other sexually transmitted diseases, which have also taken up, like gonorrhea and syphilis. It is serious – I fully agree with that. We spend a lot of money and resources in this area and on this group – among other things. is HIV medicine expensive. If we were just going to look at it financially, the most important thing would be that we were able to prevent it. But the most important thing is to prevent, and even though it is good medicine and good treatment, it is clearly a burden both mentally and physically, not least, to live with such a diagnosis. What's done is we're now working on, as I said, a revision of this strategy. It is important to stress that this is not something you do internally in a department or in a directorate. This is done in close cooperation with HIV-infected organisations — and there are many organisations. When I meet this council, there are many different organisations, and it may also have been that these organisations had a lot to do to make better and more constructive cooperation. We also allocate a good deal of money to different organisations, and I believe in that context that it has been quite predictable that they have been allocated financial resources for their operations or for their projects. I fully agree that it is important to get to condom distribution. But I also have to say that where I come – in outpatient clinics or health clinics – there are condoms available. I think we also need to take on a great deal of attitude in the different environments where the risk of infection is greatest. It is a great responsibility of the health services, but also of other agencies outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e616	It's alarming numbers coming from the Institute of Public Health about the rise in HIV among men who have sex with men. I'm sure there's a lot of reasons for that. We used to have more campaigns with a focus on how to infect HIV, and how to protect ourselves from it. At the same time, we had little to treat the disease with. Maybe it helped to make you more careful and to avoid having unprotected sex? We've seen the same thing with other diseases throughout history, although it's not directly comparable, for example. Bacterial infectious diseases, where one found out, among other things: Good hygiene could prevent infection. Eventually penicillin came, and less attention was given to preventing infection and more focus on treatment. Once we have experienced the development of resistant bacteria, the focus has again become high on prevention of infection. This shows us that we never have to reduce the focus on prevention. That's always the most important thing we can do. Then we have to get enough information out for people, so they can make good choices on behalf of their own health. That information must be provided continuously — new generations growing up must also receive that information. Sexual education at school is then an important measure. An example of preventive sexual education is the week sex project of the organisation Sex and Politics. Week Sex is an annual educational campaign that provides additional material for the teaching of sexuality. Week Sex is used by schools, school health services, youth health centres, the Red Cross community, resource centres, youth clubs and many others. The Sex and Societal Organization — the Centre for Young Sexuality — is another good example of important work in this field. The Centre operates a free clinic for all young people under 25 who live in Oslo. They teach young people about sexuality, accept hospitants, produce brochures and information material, as well as guide health professionals across the country on how best to meet patients who need help related to sexual and reproductive health. There are also other organisations that are doing an important educational work on sexual health and prevention. These are important actors in providing people with knowledge in order to make good choices. In health education and prevention, it is also important that the focus is on how HIV does not infect, so that we can get rid of HIV. Today, you won't stand up if you're infected, because you're afraid that people you associate with have an unjustified fear of getting infected. This could probably lead you to choose not to test yourself out of fear of being isolated. If you don't test yourself, you don't know if you have the infection, and you can, of course, carry it on. Testing to control the infection is important. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health has explained that there is a commitment to offering rapid answers. The increase in HIV-infected men who have sex with men is very worrying. Then it's good to work actively on how to reduce it, and that there are many people who make recordings and contribute. I support the Minister of Health that we need to cooperate widely both with authorities, with civil society and with those who live with HIV, in order to achieve the goal of eradicating HIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e633	I would first like to thank the representative, Höie, for raising this important debate. In 2008, I promoted an interpellation on HIV. My starting point was a growing concern that the population lacked basic knowledge about how HIV is infected – and also about how HIV does not. Being able to prevent infection was part of the debate at that time as well. The increase in HIV cases must be seen in the context of a general increase in gender diseases. The HIV virus itself is a relatively small infectious virus. In addition, if the HIV positive has a different sex disease, such as: chlamydia or gonorrhea significantly increases the infectiveness of the HIV virus, as it facilitates contact bleeding. It is not uncommon for HIV positives to have other sexually transmitted diseases. Gender diseases are generally increasing in the whole population — both chlamydia, gonorrhea and syphilis. Let me give you an example: figures from the Public Health Institute show that the chlamydia cases in 2001 were 14901, and in 2010 there were a total of 22,527 new cases of chlamydia. An active, and I would say simple, prevention measures against HIV and against sexual diseases in the population, which many people have been involved in, are using condoms. Unfortunately, many studies show that condom use is low in this country. In addition to protecting against sexually transmitted diseases, it is a good contraceptive. Using condoms as a contraceptive to a greater extent than today would not only have had good protection against unwanted pregnancy, but also had good protection against HIV and gender disease, which the p-pillar does not protect against. Many women find it difficult to argue that partners should use condoms of fear of gender diseases. In practice, this means that the use is low. I think we should, with advantage, more offensively highlight the use of condoms on the part of health services, in order to increase acceptance in all parts of the adult population. There is reason to be concerned about an ever-increasing incidence of HIV infection abroad in the Nordic countries. HIV prevalence is much higher in many foreign countries than in Norway. This is also why it is important to establish good habits and attitudes to condom use. Among homosexuals, it is believed that the reduction of HIV threats, in the light of the improved treatment options that came about about 15 years ago, has contributed strongly as a contributing factor in some homosexuals resuming to engage in unsafe sex. A study in Europe, EMIS, shows that also among homosexuals who know they are HIV positive, the extent of unprotected sex is significant. At the same time, this study reveals that almost 70 pst. Of the respondents, not talking about HIV status with their last random sex partner, at least a third did not know their own HIV status, and only half had tested themselves for a sexually transmitted infection in the last year — the Council of State was also involved in these figures. Maybe this has to do with fear of stigmatisation and social exclusion, which is understandable, given the lack of knowledge about HIV, which both I and the interpellant have been involved in. Now it's not like most people are exposed to risky sex. In a NOVA study on gay and lesbian living conditions, it was found that only one fifth of gay men are in the group that potentially engages in high-risk sex and thus are at risk of HIV infection. This group is important and attains. The question is how to reach this particular group of information and awareness-raising activities. The challenges facing the fight against HIV and other gender diseases are high. Many immigrants who come to the country are also HIV positive. In 2011, these were 109 newly diagnosed cases out of a total of 269. A central problem in this group is deafness about infection in immigrant settings. Culture, religion and language provide additional challenges in HIV prevention and HIV positive interventions in just these environments. We must not forget the young. Attitude-building, information and guidance are very important. Knowledge of what is contagious and not contagious is essential. Transparency and knowledge of HIV will also help to reduce stigmatisation and misunderstandings associated with those who have to live with HIV for the rest of their lives. In the end, the interpellant was involved in this with the penal code. Also, in the previous interpellation debate on HIV, this was a topic, and yes – I think we should be able to go closer and see if we should change something here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e656	First, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important theme. There is no doubt that the development of infectious diseases is alarming, and that there is a need to take action to reverse this trend. Finding good HIV prevention is not a simple task. HIV positives are far from a single group. It's all from the injection site to the well-grown woman who's infected by an unruly spouse. It may be the young girl who felt bad for a long time, before the doctor finally checked her for HIV – a disease she probably got after a holiday tattoo. It can be the immigrant stuff that falls in love with other guys, but that can't accept the legend, and at least it doesn't identify itself as a homofil. It is the man who believed that HIV is a disease that seemed, and that it was safe as long as he was only with ladies who looked healthy and healthy. He thought that HIV is not something that concerns him, but that only some so-called risk groups get – he was very wrong. If we're going to come up with preventive strategies that work, knowledge alone is not enough. Most people know how HIV is infected. However, very many people have unprotected sex, something that is evident in the infection of chlamydia and other sexually transmitted diseases. The response to HIV in Norway must be well coordinated and based on well-thought-out methods. He must be based on a knowledge of what leads to a change of action, and of what bidders the individual groups will listen to. Infectious diseases provide good reasons for looking at how HIV prevention can be improved. If we're going to be able to reverse this trend, we also have to look at what makes people have unprotected sex, and let alone test themselves. I believe that an important reason why many people feel that this does not concern them is that too many people are HIV-positively restricted to so-called risk groups, which have so-called risk behaviours. But HIV positive is, as I said, a much more diverse group. At the same time, HIV positives still experience that health professionals do not dare change their beds, that dental nectars treat them. When HIV infection is so low in some people, it is not surprising that HIV positives can feel stigmatised and discriminated against. If we are to find good HIV prevention measures, we must also work to ensure that HIV positives have good living conditions, good quality of life and feel that it is safe to be open about their status. We have to work to get up the contraception and get more people to take HIV tests. It'll be a good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e667	I would like to thank you for the speeches in the debate, although I would like to see more. I think it's important to go back to what was one of my main points in my first post, which is what makes people who have HIV practice insecure sex, and men who have sex with men at risk of getting infected. In very many cases, of course, a complete awareness of the risk of infection in both HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases. One must then go back to the underlying causes, which have been less affected in the debate. It is a combination of a lack of acceptance of their own identity and the continuing experience of hot and stigmatisation, which in turn leads to mental problems and, in many cases, to a very high level of drug use, both of illicit and of legal drugs. It's this that in many ways characterizes many of those who are HIV positive and who still practice casual sex, with the risk of infection, and those who are exposed to this risk. In HIV prevention work, therefore, much more needs to be done to address the underlying causes. A part of the strategy must be that HIV positives receiving medical help also need more help with the underlying challenge and, not least, with the challenge of living with this chronic disease. This does not only help with a revision of the existing strategy. It does not only help to continue the level of funding that has been available in this area. There is a need for a combination of new measures, increased funds and, not least, a greater involvement of many, in addition to the organisations already engaged. It is – as the Council of State was talking about – a diversity of organisations working in this area. Of course, it can sometimes be frustrating for the authorities to have many to deal with, but I think it's an advantage that there's a diversity of engagement in this area. I welcome the fact that more people are involved in the work against HIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e680	I just want to comment on the Internet study, which showed that 40 pst. Of the 2,000 who responded, they said they had been exposed to homosexuality. There's a high number in a country where we want to be liberal and think that we're very tolerant of those who might be a little bit different. It's thought-provoking. As the interpellant says, it's important to tackle this. It is again about – I think – information and attitudes. Therefore, I believe that having a cross-ministerial strategy – at least when it was established – is important. It is important that more ministries focus on this, because there are many who need to enter. On the health side, we can get information about treatment and prevention to the entire healthcare system – that is important – but we also need to have all other actors with it. I want to refer to an action that is a success. It is called Week Sex – imported from Denmark – and is both a campaign and education for 7–10. class. There is a cooperation between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Knowledge, and it is funded by the two Directorates Education and Health starting in 2011. So I talked a lot about increasing the test frequency. I very much agree with this low threshold, that we get tests that faster can give an answer. It's been important. I would also like to stress that both the Olafia Clinic and the Brynsenglegen have been strengthened in their offers to men who have sex with men. Immigrants have had their own courses and training activities carried out, including: Acceptance and mastery, Primary Medical Workshop and Medical Sexual Intelligence. The Olafia Clinic has developed its own rapidest procedure guide, and a Public Health Institute’s Book of Infections has been developed. So it's done a lot of work. I agree that when we have many organisations, we need to use all of these – and we do – to get information to the members and to the environments in which these organisations work. Here it's necessary to think broadly. I mean, we do. I also think it is important that we review the strategy, so that we do the right things in the future. There is no doubt that this is a matter that it is important to work on – and have a lot of attention on further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e696	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e712	We live in a society where we are seeking more and more knowledge in all areas. Knowledge is basically a good thing, even in terms of health. Knowing can give us new opportunities. It can give us answers on how disease can be treated and life saved. But sometimes new knowledge also involves ethical dilemmas. Is it a step forward to know that if you can't do anything to prevent it from developing, you're out of disease? Shall we look for answers to what life will be like, and try to influence it, or just hope for the best? This is an ethical dilemma that is becoming increasingly active in the development of biotechnology. Norway has been a leading country for the regulation of biotechnology. The first law came into force in 1994, and today's law came into force approx. 10 years later. In accordance with the decision of the Grand Duchy, an evaluation of the law is now being carried out. The evaluation must be seen in the light of a tearing technological development. In 2000 the humane was surveyed. Today the genome is being mapped to thousands of people in the world, and it only takes days after the test has been delivered until the result is available. Thus, we can learn something about the genetic causes of disease and something about the relationship between inheritance and the environment. We can find out if we're at risk of getting sick, not just if we're sick. With the new knowledge, we can get more tailor-made medical treatment, which is more effective and results in fewer side effects. In 2003, there was an offer of genetic analysis for approximately 100 states in Norway. In 2009, the analysis had been extended to approx. 300 conditions, and if one uses testing abroad, the offer is even larger. When we adopted the Biotechnology Act in 2003, there was full political agreement to have an ethical framework for genetic testing. There was broad political agreement that such studies should only be carried out as part of medical diagnosis and treatment and that the result should not be used outside the healthcare system. A broad majority also adhered to the requirement for consent in such investigations and to the provisions on genetic guidance. The population adopted a ban on predictive genetic testing of children, unless this could reveal conditions that could be treated or be beneficial to the child. We know that some have called for the abolition of the regulation of genetic research in the Biotechnology Act. For the Right, however, it is important that ethics limits technology. It is therefore important to highlight the importance of the ethical and legal framework that we have in this area. Right believes in the individual's right and the ability to make good choices for his life, but we don't believe in unlimited freedom. Right believe in the value of a society where there's room for everyone. This means that we must combat discrimination based on genetic properties. This also implies that we need to limit who is given access to genetic information about others. Another important constraint is that my freedom stops where yours begins. Parents' right to information about their children's genes must be weighed against the children's right to not know. To the right, it is an important principle that it is the individual who owns the information about himself and his own health. Genetic tests can provide sensitive information about a human being. It doesn't just say something about future disease disposition, but it can tell you about relatives, traumas and diseases you've had. It is worth noting that in its privacy strategy paper, the EU defines genetic information as particularly sensitive information requiring its own protection. No matter how valuable genetic information is for researchers, the state and others, we have to respect that this is private information about the individual. That is why we believe genetic testing must be based on the consent of the individual in the future. The commitment to medical progress must not lead to the setting aside of a fundamental interest in privacy. In Norway, provision is made for genetic testing in healthcare in case of suspicion of disease. There are good reasons to maintain the ban on the use of genetic information outside the healthcare system. There may be strong commercial interests related to such information, for example insurance companies will have a clear interest in knowing something about our disease risk, which could lead to ranking customers based on their genetic characteristics. Even in the United Kingdom, which has liberal legislation in this area, it is prohibited to use such information for insurance purposes, and it is punishable to collect biological material from others without their consent or to isolate their DNA without their consent. Although genetic testing is prohibited outside the healthcare system in Norway, the use of such offers abroad is not prohibited. These are tests that can also say something about the risk of future disease. Gentesters are aggressively marketed as an offer of answers and security for how our health becomes. Recently, we have also seen examples of strong marketing of genetic testing of children. An advertisement says that you can test if your child has diabetes, asthma, allergies, Alzheimer's, cancer and leg cleavage. Torunn Fischerstrand, a member of the Department of Biotechnology, and an audience at the Center for Medical Genetics and Molecular Medicine at Haukeland University Hospital, stated in Dagbladet on 1 March this year: ‘This is misleading and shameless marketing.’ She says it's not certain at all that the test gives the answers that you're giving the impression, and even though the tests may say something about disposition and risk, they can't give us an exact answer as to what our life actually is. Even if you are predisposed to disease, you may not develop a disease. In such cases, the test may give rise to much unnecessary concern and to a reduction in the quality of life. This can also contribute to morbidisation of the population. Fresh people, who may want good health throughout their lives, are confronted with the possibility of sickness and early death. The consequence may be that a take-off and removal of organs is not really necessary, but with the risk of complications and damage. This case also shows the dilemma that parents have about the right to access and obtain genetic information about their children, with the consequences this may have for their children's lives. Today’s legislation prohibits the predictive genetic testing of children if there is no health benefit for the child. This is an important limit to protecting the child’s right to not know in cases where it is difficult to know if disease will develop, and it is also not possible to do anything to prevent this. Ghents not only provide information about yourself, but can also provide information about the family and their health. What do you do when you learn that the sibling can be the bearer of a gene from the hereditary disease Huntington? This is a serious disease that cannot be cured. Your siblings really want information about this, don't they? This shows that individual choices about genetic testing can also have major consequences for the lives of other people. Just because genetic information not only gives us answers, but also raises many difficult ethical questions, genetic guidance is very important. This requirement of our current Biotechnology Act should ensure that informed choices are made as to which information is sought and how to deal with this information. The more information you can get, the more important it is to get good guidance. Also countries with more liberal legislation than ours, e.g. France and States in the United States have introduced a requirement for genetic testing to be ordered through a doctor. This is because you see how important it is to give a more nuanced picture of genetic testing than you get through commercial marketing. The development of biotechnology reinforces, in my view, the justification for a requirement for guidance in relation to genetic testing. The same applies to the importance of having legislation in this area that ensures that it is the ethics that governs technology, not vice versa. Norway has always been a leading country in this way and should remain so. I look forward to hearing the views of the Council of State on these important and ethical issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e749	As the representative Höie points out, genetic research is in a new era. The number of analyses available has increased considerably and genetic studies have become an integral part of diagnostics and treatment in several areas. We can increasingly use methods of analysis that examine all human genes in one operation. The justification is that such methods are more effective and deliver better results. This may provide new opportunities for diagnostics, prevention and treatment, but the enormous amounts of data also present new challenges. The Biotechnology Act reflects the difference between genetic testing of sick and healthy persons. Genetic examinations for diagnostic purposes are considered as part of standard medical practice to clarify the diagnosis so that proper treatment or action can be initiated as early as possible. Genetic studies to identify the risk of heritable disease in healthy subjects are more challenging. Such predictive studies confirm that the person has an increased risk of inherited disease, but it does not say anything about whether the person may ever get sick. The development of disease is influenced by a number of factors such as the environment and lifestyle and other genes. While genetic defects can give rise to a high risk of illness in one family, the risk may be much lower in another family. The results of predictive studies must be seen in conjunction with a number of other factors affecting disease development. It is important that personnel to interpret the results of such studies have good competence and that they can provide guidance to patients. When testing healthy persons, the requirements of the person to order or carry out the study are strengthened. The same applies to the rights of the person under investigation. The requirement for genetic guidance is an example of this. The guide shall provide the investigator with a sound basis for taking a decision and ensuring good information and follow-up throughout the process. The representative, Höie, points out that, as a general rule, the Biotechnology Act prohibits the predictive genetic testing of children. This means that predictive genetic testing is only allowed if it gives a clear health benefit. This could be done, for example, by: where the genetic test can demonstrate the risk of a preventable disease and that preventive measures must be implemented before the symptoms occur. Another example is when the genetic test can detect a disease that can be treated with good effect, and the treatment must be started in childhood and before the symptoms occur. New birth screening is based on these principles. The strict conditions for the examination of children for future disease risk are justified by the child’s right to decide for itself whether it will have information. This is not particularly true for Norway. We find the same provisions in German law. The principles are also reflected in the UNESCO Declaration on the Human genome and the Council of Europe Protocol on the use of genetic testing in healthcare. A legislation on genetic testing needs to be adapted to current needs and situation. At the same time, the legislation shall ensure a certain degree of flexibility with regard to technological development. We also need to facilitate research that can provide new knowledge, for example: how genes affect disease development. In the long term, such knowledge can contribute to the improvement of treatment methods and the development of new medicines. I want to point to some of the challenges of genetic testing: Many methods of analysis generate a lot of data on the codes in all our genes. An example of this is genome sequencing. Data analysis may provide information on heritable disease or the risk of disease. Today, we know about disease genes that can be associated with more than 3,000 conditions. If a person is disposed of for one or more of these, it may be detected by data sequencing and analysis. Persecution increases the chance of getting out much more information than you're really looking for. Such information is often referred to as unintended findings. Unintentional findings on the risk of heritable disease may have a significant health significance for the person under investigation. Such findings may also say something about the disease risk of family members. Unintentional findings are not a new issue. Unintentional findings related to image diagnosis are not uncommon. A head MR study may reveal changes in the brain that suspect incipient Alzheimer's, although this was not the reason for the study. The special feature of genome sequencing is that you get a lot of information that increases the chance of accidental findings. Many ethical discussions nationally and internationally focus on how to use genome sequencing and how to obtain information affect privacy and our right to know and not to know. Foreign companies are very active in the marketing of genetic self-testing. Marketing often refers to the tests as health promotion and emphasis is placed on their contribution to control over their own health. The professional community considers this to be misleading, as the risk calculations from the self-tests are highly uncertain and poorly suited to assessing the individual’s risk of getting sick. It is difficult to regulate and enforce access to the self-tests sold on the Internet. There is a need for information to the public about the kind of knowledge such tests can provide and about the uncertainties associated with the results. Several firms recommend that parents buy self-testing to investigate the future risk of illness of their children. It is clear that establishments in Norway cannot legally offer this type of genetic testing of children. I'm glad that the biotechnology teacher's manager and professionals were quick to warn against a Danish company that recently had advertising campaigns offering to re-test children. The Biotechnology Act requires genetic testing to have a medical purpose. Genetic studies may not be used to determine whether a person is fit for a particular job or to assess the risk of future illness in connection with insurance, which was also the subject of the interpellant. These are important principles to prevent discrimination. Many European countries, like Norway, prohibit the use of information on genetic risk of disease in insurance and employment contracts. I have expectations that new technologies, such as genome sequencing, will provide new knowledge of serious hereditary disease that can contribute to better treatment or to more patients being diagnosed. This is a desired development. At the same time, I believe it is important to ensure an ethical and legal framework for genetic research. We must be sure that the framework facilitates the rational and appropriate use of new methods of analysis in the field of diagnostics, treatment and research. At the same time, we must have a framework that safeguards the privacy and integrity of individuals and provides a secure storage of data. I want to look at this carefully in the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act to be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e781	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer – an answer that also attracts many of the difficult balances this area is facing. In particular, there are more and more complex balances as medical developments continue. That is why the evaluation of the biotechnology law we are now facing is also important. It gives us an opportunity to update the law and ensure that one keeps the ethical boundaries that one through democratic processes agrees to keep in our society. Therefore, it is also important that the government in its work on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act — hopefully — stick to the purpose of the law and also leave the purpose of the law governing which changes to the law may be proposed. In its response to the challenge of sequencing, the Council of State provided significantly more information than is initially sought. Today, written consent from the patient and guidance is required in predictive, presymptomatic and carrier diagnostic studies. However, if the study intends to make a diagnosis, the same type of requirements shall not apply. The subject of biotechnology writes in its input to the evaluation of the law that there has been no clear understanding of what, in terms of testing, is predictive and diagnostic. The genetic research is now, as the Council of State was concerned with, so extensive, through, for example: through sequencing, that in practice it is not possible to overlook the genetic information generated by the test. Tests initially taken as part of diagnostics may also provide information on future disease risks. This raises an important question as to when to require written consent and when to provide guidance to the patient. For patients and decision-makers, it is important that this issue is clarified in the context of the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to help ensure that consent is obtained and information is provided through studies that can provide information on the risk of future disease, even if the starting point was diagnosis, where diagnosis now provides the possibility of much more information than what one is initially looking for?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e790	We are at a stage where we are working on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. I just want to stress that this is an area where it is very important to have a good legal code and a good ethical code. It's clear. I don't think there's any disagreement in that way, at least not about what's come up in the interpellant's questions, and what I think is right now. In the case of accidental information during testing, e.g. by children – or adults for that matter – I think that what is surplus information or accidental information should not be able to be provided without further notice. I believe that this is the practice that is being practised today, and that it is important to continue in the future as well. What's worrying about the tests that we see online, and the ones that it's been advertised, is that they're both misleading and insecure, and they give, as the representative Höie says, undue concern for a lot of people, and we get into completely wrong tracks. But then we also have to look at the value of this technology, that you can look at and prevent disease for which you see it is heredity, you can prevent many unnecessary investigations, for example. in children, and you can diagnose in a way that allows you to get better treatment. All these areas are important areas. As far as our work on the Biotechnology Act is concerned, it is a work that will be put before the Stortinget. I'm now waiting for the debate to continue looking at what's coming up, and whether there's more we're going to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e801	In this interview, the representative Höie points out that Chapter 5 of the Biotechnology Act provides a framework for genetic testing of humans and also regulates the use of such studies. Genetic studies are all types of analyses of human genetic material, of genetic products and their function or organ tests intended to provide information on human genetic characteristics. Genetic studies of the born include tests for disease diagnosis, various genetic studies — both pre-symptomatic and predictive — to detect or exclude the state of support of heritable diseases that appear only in its generations, and genetic laboratory studies for the determination of gender, with the exception of genetic laboratory tests for identification purposes. The Biotechnology Act reflects the importance of ethical and data protection considerations relating to the use of genetic research. Therefore, such studies shall have clear medical grounds for making a diagnosis and determining any treatment. The law requires consent from parents or someone in the place of their parents when children are under 16 years of age when they are being tested. The privacy and ethical considerations on which the Biotechnology Act is based will also be important in the continuation, as I see it. But, as the Council of State said, it will in future be important that we have legislation that is also adapted to the technological reality we are in, in a good and constructive way. On the one hand, it is important to research to develop more knowledge in order to prevent, treat and alleviate or cure disease. On the other hand, technology can give us an insight into our health, which we get by chance, for example. through what is mentioned here several times, through sequence, where a large amount of data is analysed for a particular purpose. And as the Council of State also said, there is an ongoing debate both here to the country and internationally on how to use sequencing and how to deal with it in terms of ethics and privacy. There are many dilemmas both in general and for individuals related to getting this kind of insight, and here, of course, the problem of consent will play an important role. In addition to what is mentioned here, it is that the possibility of genetic testing and obtaining detailed information on our genetic material and on our dispositions for various diseases and disorders is available as private, commercial offers given over the network, so-called genetic self-testing. During the last 10 years, an international market for such tests has developed. There is, of course, much that can motivate the use of these tests: interest in own health, disease disposition, the health of own children, genealogy, pharmacovigilance or adultery. We have also received sales of this type of service here in Norway, and we have ongoing debates both internationally and at home on how to deal with the situation with these tests. In summary, we must be able to conclude that Chapter 5 of the Biotechnology Act is still important for genetic research and that at the same time we need to make the necessary adjustments to address the challenges of technological development in this field, including: through evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, which is now underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e820	There are important issues that the interpellant addresses, and that many have been faced with. The aim of the Biotechnology Act, which has been the subject of a total accumulation, is to ensure that the law ensures that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of all, and to prevent discrimination on grounds of genetic engineering. It brings me to a topic that is highly topical, which is part of the same issue, namely the Workers' Party's proposal to introduce an early ultrasound offer to all pregnant women. Ultrasound is a good and important aid in modern maternity care and maternity care. All pregnant women have an offer of around 18 weeks of pregnancy, and pregnant women with a medical indication are offered for 12 weeks. There is no evidence that early ultrasound to everyone has a health benefit for mother and children, but it will lead us into ethically difficult issues. The provision of early ultrasound to all pregnant women is likely to lead to multiple abortions of foetuses with special hereditary facilities and characteristics. It shows the experience of Denmark after the introduction of early ultrasound to all pregnant women there. This applies not only to children with Down syndrome, but also to well-functioning children with, among other things. Turner syndrome and Klinefelter syndrome. A notice in the Berlingske Official Journal on Saturday 21 April shows that. It says: ‘Gravidly deselects well-functioning children’. So it's a result of Denmark's practice, and now it's called a warning from the Ethical Council in Denmark. On that basis, I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify what she and the Workers' Party know, among other things. Vice-Chairman Helga Pedersen, in his suggestion of early ultrasound, adds to everyone, a suggestion that I have understood that the government might go ahead. Does it mean a normal ultrasound examination that can be performed at medical clinics early in pregnancy, or does it mean a study aimed at diagnosing the foetus? When I ask, it's because there's reason to believe that there's foetal diagnostics The Workers' Party believes, based on the argument they've used for their proposal: that such a study in the 12th week for all pregnant women can save, or rock, many children, because there can be a rare heart defect and a special condition in a few single-handed twins. This is also a study that requires considerable special expertise and that can only be done in some hospitals. The law on biotechnology distinguishes between the use of ultrasound in foetal diagnostics and ultrasonic studies in the context of normal maternity care. Section 4-1 of the Law states: ‘Federal diagnostics means, for the purposes of this Act, examination of foetal cells, foetuses or a pregnant woman for the purpose of obtaining information on the genetic properties of the foetus or of detecting or excluding disease or developmental abnormalities in the foetus.’; Ultrasonic examination in general maternity care is not considered to be foetal diagnostics and is not covered by law. Foetal diagnostics shall only be carried out in establishments approved for this purpose. In our country on 17 January, the Council of State stated that their proposal for early ultrasound meant that a legislative change is strictly not necessary. My question then is: is there a common study that it is meant to be, or is there a foetal diagnostics that the Workers' Party will introduce for all pregnant women? I believe it is important to clarify this. Finally, does the Council of State consider that their proposals are in line with the objective of the Biotechnology Act, that the law should ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of all, and that it should prevent discrimination on grounds of genetic engineering?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e857	First, I have to thank the interpellant for raising this debate. It's more important than ever. Initially, I'd like to refer to the previous speaker, who was focused on early ultrasound. I can sign on every word that was said from the pulpit. It's incredibly important that the government clarify this. There is great confusion among people and in the political environment about early ultrasound, as the government sees it, should be foetal diagnostics or not. It has recently become clear that genetic testing is a more topical issue than ever. Demand for and supply of different types of genetic testing is increasing. Many people now choose to conjure themselves or others — for example: his child, we have heard, or grandchildren, for that matter – via private operators selling their services on the Internet. Sometimes you want to clarify genetic conditions and other relationships, such as relationships. fatherhood. The current evaluation of existing biotechnology laws by the Ministry of Health and Welfare is very important and long-term in view of recent developments in this field. Unfortunately, there is reason to believe that genetic testing via the Internet does not comply with a number of provisions of the Biotechnology Act. Genetic studies should only be used for medical purposes for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes, which I believe everyone has actually been involved in. The results will result in the need for genetic guidance. One of the disadvantages of knowing about the future disease may be morbidity. At other times, patients are faced with difficult and irreversible choices such as the removal of healthy organs, for example: breasts or ovaries, or the choice of foetal diagnostics and selective abortion of foetuses with facilities for the genetic disease. Genetic guidance shall be provided to enable persons to make a choice that is right for them. The right not to know must also be respected, as many people have been involved. I am particularly concerned with compliance with the provisions that genetic testing should not be carried out on children under 16 years of age, unless it can demonstrate conditions that can prevent or reduce health damage to the child during treatment. Children have the right not to know – and the right to an open future. If it becomes more common for parents to have knowledge of their children's genes, it may matter how parents raise their children. Since risks are difficult to perceive and knowledge of genetics is limited, the choices made in their best interests may often be inconsistent with the child’s real potential. The subject of biotechnology, in its input to extended neonatal screening, suggested that the genetic dispositions of children should not be revealed beyond what is necessary for prevention treatment. Like many others who have spoken here, I fully agree with that. I am also concerned that the ban on the use of genetic information outside the healthcare service is not being complied with when the test has been carried out privately. We also have to remember that genetic testing not only says something about the individual that has been tested, but it also provides indirect information about, for example, the individual being tested. family members. This again raises a number of ethical issues. It is important that we continue to ensure that private testing does not undermine the legal text of Chapter 5 of the Biotechnology Act. At the open meeting on Done-it-yourself genetics, which was held in Oslo in April this year, a company in Norway found out that there are a number of issues in which fathers and grandparents have DNA tests for small children to determine the danger to the children, some even say that all children should be DNA tested at birth. I think this is an unfortunate development. This is likely to lead to increased insecurity and less social inclusion for children. For approx. A year ago I asked questions about and wrote a letter to the Minister of Health about newborn screening and biobank and various issues related to genetic material. I pointed out at the time the need for political, professional, legal and ethical review of the scope of the Biotechnology Act and of biobank policy in this area. The Council of State then referred to the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, which the Ministry is now working on. I look forward to the evaluation being promoted for Stortinget, and my many issues, which I raised at the time, are well taken care of. But it's urgent. Here the technique, with its development, goes by speed. Does the Council of State think that we are able to follow this train politically and ethically? It's urgent, and I want to ask, when is the matter coming to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e880	Thank you to the interpellant, who is raising an important and difficult issue! This case requires good policy and legislation, broad public debate, a lot of public information and, above all, ethical awareness and concreteisation. As in almost all other parts of modern medical technology, the research front lies ahead of politicians' imagination. It happens in an open world, without barriers to knowledge, where diagnostic possibilities are free international merchandise on the Internet. However, as in the past, individual individuals will often be left alone with the new questions arising from the analytical responses. We believe that gene analyses should only be used as part of medical diagnostics and treatment. Therefore, individual consent to the study and the following guidance must be given. The law today imposes strict conditions for predictive genetic testing on children. Such tests shall not be carried out unless preventive treatment options are available. Regardless of age, the genetic tests provide both intentional and unintended responses, and the responses must be interpreted in the light of, inter alia, methodological uncertainties. It's very central that the test answers not only provide information about the individual itself, but also about his or her own family. Genetic testing in the absence of a suspicion of a specific disease will only cause anxiety and anxiety for many. False positive results will lead to re-testing and directly affect the priority of health resources, and there will be a long-term lack of competent guides. Ten years ago, it was an unattainable scientific dream to offer rescreening to anyone for a thousand dollars apiece. Dreams of technology being fulfilled. We're there now. One of the many companies offering this is called deCODEme. The company's website has reliable design, and the opening message is as follows: Explore your genetic risk factors and keep an eye on the prospects for long-term health. The complete package is the most accurate, advanced and comprehensive test of its kind. And this is simple: painless sampling by itself, all the information comes to an Internet account, and the companies don't set any limits if you want to take samples of family, friends or children. Yes, the service is also offered as a gift item. One can pay, and the company sends the sampling envelope directly to another recipient, i.e. gift cards for genetic testing. Genetic information stands in a special position both in Norwegian legislation and in international legal conventions. That's because the information itself is sensitive and involves more than the one being tested. It is important to protect the individual’s interests against the use of genetic data by others, and it is particularly important to protect children. The wishes of children and parents can be contradictory. It is important to provide the research here, but never at the expense of the interests of the research participants. The information must be good and there must be a real possibility of not participating and of not agreeing. As my intervention and the debate show, we have a great responsibility here as legislators, but we also need research and a lot of public information. Norway will never be able to create high enough walls against knowledge and international genetic merchandise. That is why the debate and formulation of standards and ethics are as necessary as good legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e911	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for making an important but also difficult debate! The interpellant referred to the Biotechnology Act Chapter 5 on the framework and use of genetic testing for humans. The interpellant also indicated that, in previous treatment of biotechnology laws, there was a broad political consensus that such investigations should only be carried out as part of medical diagnostics and treatment and that the outcome should not be used outside the healthcare system. Requirements were also set for the consent of such investigations and for genetic guidance. The population also adopted a ban on predictive genetic testing of children, unless this could reveal conditions that could be treated. Today we see a raging development in the field. Genetic studies are becoming more and more widespread. There is more and more information that is made available, and there is a large commercial market. At the same time, the government is continuing an evaluation of the biotechnology law. For the Centre Party, it is important to contribute to the continued availability of good ethical and legal frameworks around the genetic studies made available in the Health Service. Ethics must be controlling, not engineering. We talk a lot about the right to know, but what I think is just as important to focus on in the assessments that are being made is the right not to know. Serious diseases in many cases cannot be prevented or treated. Predictive genetic information is claimed by some to be capable of destroying the quality of life of healthy people and taking from the experience of having an open future, as well as the risk of misuse of information by employers, insurance companies, etc. So the right to not know is an important reason why today's law requires that predictive genetic testing of children under the age of 16 be done only if it can prevent or reduce health damage. The risk of pathology in genetic studies must be taken seriously in the debate and in the evaluation of the current biotechnology law. There is also a great need for knowledge of genetic research both in health services and in the population. Genetic studies exist, they become more numerous, and they can be absolutely very useful. The question is how to use it, and there must be ethical frameworks and norms that govern the area. I believe that the objective of today's Biotechnology Act is good in relation to what will be the framework for the raging development that is taking place. The aim of today's Biotechnology Act is to ensure that medical use and biotechnology are exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with a principle of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage, based on ethical standards in our Western cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e933	While we have had this debate, 40,000 have sung 'Children of the Rainbow' at Youngstorget. In many ways, the purpose paragraph of the Biotechnology Act is just about how to preserve a society where there is room for all children of the rainbow. I am very pleased with the speeches that have been made in this debate, because it gives me confidence that very much of what are already the principles, the ethical boundaries, in biotechnology in this area, also has broad political impetus now when the law is being evaluated and returns to the Biggest. Several have addressed the challenge of offering online testing, and thus in areas that are not regulated by Norway. This is kind of cynically marketed by playing on all people's fears of getting sick, and it creates an illusion that knowing will provide security. But security in this area by knowing will in very many cases be replaced by anxiety, anxiety, at a significantly higher level. That's why I very much agree with what the representative, Are Health, was about, the importance of being able to communicate and create a broad popular commitment to these issues. I think that Norway basically has a good tradition through the past processes that have been in biotechnology, and that we are able to create a relatively broad discussion around rather complicated issues. However, it requires professionals in these areas to participate in the open societal debate on the challenges and consequences in this area, and also to be able to find words and concepts that are not alienating but to which one can relate. It also requires political parties, not least at regular intervals, to raise this type of discussion internally in their own party organisations related to the development of their own policies, and that others with an interest in ethical issues – the Church and other organisations – participate in the public debate on these kinds of issues. We will never, no matter how good the law we can maintain or establish in this area, be able to regulate ourselves alone from the fact that in many cases it will be the individual who is facing the election whether or not a person wants to avail himself of that kind of offer. There is a need for knowledge that individuals should make wise choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e944	I very much agree with the representative Bent Höie that it is always about making wise choices. I am also very pleased that there are very many votes in this debate. There are many who believe something, and there are many who do a job – not least members of the Biotechnology Department and the Secretariat, who have a working group that discusses just the use of genome sequencing in diagnostics, treatment and research. This group will also make proposals. I am pleased with everyone who makes proposals on these difficult issues, now that we are at a stage where we go through the law and make an evaluation. I want to say that this law is more difficult to evaluate than much else we're doing in the department. It is much easier to make legal choices in other areas than this particular area. The representative, Ms Bavøy, asked when this evaluation was coming. According to the plan, it does not arrive until spring 2013, but it is important to do so too. So we have a long time to discuss this, and that's very positive, I think, this is going to be a theme in Stortinget. But then it's not possible to discuss this without there coming a question of early ultrasound, and it's kind of being equated with genetic testing. I do not agree with that. When it comes to genetic testing, everyone has been up and talking about it not being legal in Norway — only in very special cases in the medical context. Early ultrasound is a legitimate investigation. Very many take early ultrasound. In Oslo and the big cities, it's about maybe as many as 80 pst. undertakes this study. Then I have to say that I have been amazed for a long time that you have a 38-year limit, where everyone can get early ultrasound in Norway. There is a limit that has been administered by health ministers both from the Right and from the Christian People's Party. I think it's a dilemma. Why do you have a 38-year limit, why should everyone over it be able to take this? We all know what's the reason for that. Then I think you should stop suspecting why someone makes a different choice or has a different meaning. I have suggested that early ultrasound can be a proper examination for those who want to know, but you also have to have the ability to choose what is best for yourself, and make wise choices. [[The President clubs.]] It's...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e957	As the speaking time is running out, the Stortinge gets to think about what the Council of State was going to say at the end. So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e965	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e1001	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-26.ana.ud2418e1032	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
