ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e76	Honourable co-representatives! Former Socialist Electoral Council representative, Kåre Øistein Hansen, died on 6 May this year, 84 years old. Kåre Øistein Hansen was born in Drammen and was elected to Stortinget from Buskerud. During his period at Stortinget from 1973 to 1977, he was a member of the Financial Committee. It was as a mechanic in the industry his social exposure was aroused. He took this commitment with him in both trade union work and politics, and as an active football and outdoorsman. Hansen got his first job in the trade movement early in the 1950s. He was the club president for a year, became the head of department and was appointed to the Federal Government for Iron and Metal. It was the commitment to the rights of the weak and the work of the trade union movement that was central to Hansen's political work. In that period Kåre Øistein Hansen was on the Stortinget, he worked expediently for the labour movement and the underprivileged. He defended the professional rights and financial interests of the workers and was an active driver of the Working Environment Act. He also supported students at special schools, especially those at the Røste in Levanger, and was a faithful fellow player in women's matters. Kåre Øistein Hansen was an important contributor to SV's group with his commitment and firsthand knowledge of professional life. In addition, he is described as a man of humor, an important quality that was valued by his colleagues in the party and at Stortinget. He had a strong social commitment, which he also used in the local environment. Among other things, the company club raised a children's home, and cultural activities were organized in collaboration with the Dramatic Theatre. Hansen also trained dogs for the blind, was passionate fisherman and footballers for many years. In recent years, he worked as an inspector of the Labour Inspectorate and as a protection and environmental manager in the Municipality of Oslo, with the task of strengthening the working conditions and rights of employees in health and social care. Throughout his life, Hansen helped many people, and his professional and political efforts will be sustained, both in his own party and in the trade movement. We remember Kåre Øistein Hansen with deep respect and gratitude. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e99	The representatives Freddy de Ruiter and Torfinn Opheim, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e121	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e124	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e149	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group, and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e160	Today, we are discussing the first biggest report on the state of Norwegian working life. Not surprisingly, the state description in the notification shows that working conditions are good for most people in Norway. More people go to work in Norway than in any other country. We have record high employment – including among women. Norwegian employment is relatively inclusive, compared with other countries. The job we're going to in Norway is basically a good place to be. Most of us have arranged relationships at work, a working time that is well adapted to family life and social life, and we have the opportunity to influence our own working life. The Norwegian working environment standard is therefore high in an international perspective. The fact that we succeed so well in Norway is not obvious. It's a result of conscious political choices and a political struggle. The Norwegian model of society is unique, and it makes us at the top level international in terms of being able to combine even income distribution, well-being for all, competitiveness and innovation. That's why the world also looks at us. Strong work environment legislation, trade unions and good tripartite cooperation help to ensure this. Nor has it been given that the quality of Norwegian employment is to be kept good for the future. No – it still requires political choices and struggles to develop and improve Norwegian employment in response to new challenges. This is why the Workers' Party is pursuing a forward-looking labour policy based on a more inclusive working line. We take care of and take with us what works, as we look forward to finding new solutions to new challenges in a changing working life. Although the big picture is that it looks very good in most areas, we have major challenges ahead. We have labour-related challenges in the coming years. This is why the government renews and modernises the workline every day to get more people into the world of work. This is what the major reforms we have introduced are about, such as the pension reform, the Nav reform, the disability reform, the job strategy, the Qualification Programme and a new and strengthened IA agreement. All this is about getting more hands at work, giving people the opportunity to participate and giving people the opportunity to participate more. This is essential in order to ensure our future well-being. The three main challenges facing Norwegian employment are exclusion, involuntaryness and unprofessionalism. We've got a working life that pushes people too hard. Although the proportion of the population is not increasing, there are too many people who end up as long-term sick and pass on to disability, without having to get there. Behind every person who ends up on disability, it's a unique story. Any human being who ends up on disability, who could have worked in whole or in part, is one too much. With earlier and better follow-up and prevention, we can avoid them getting there. When those who end up there could have avoided it through previous efforts, there is wasted human resources, and we know a lot about who ends there: there are many women from traditional care professions where there are still heavy lifting, uncomfortable working hours, a lot of part time and a lot of night work; there are ladies who are struggling. And it's young people -- who stand too much of the increase in the proportion of the disability. It's musculoskeletal disorders, and it's mental disorders. The Employment Communication also shows that Norwegian employment is among the most labour-intensive compared to employment in EU countries. All of this helps to push people out. What do we do with that? Well, some of the reforms to follow up better and prevent people from falling out, I was inside. The IA work is crucial. The new agreement has been reinforced, new measures have been put in place by the government, and we are already seeing results: sick leave is falling; it is falling and has not been lower in a long time. It promises good for the future. But we want to move on to prevent exclusion. Early efforts and prevention are key. We would like, among other things: have a new youth guarantee, which will put in place efforts against young people in the past. If we are to prevent exclusion, we also need to have working time arrangements that make it possible to stay in work for a long time and enable family and children to be combined with work. The working-time arrangements take account of employees, enterprises and society's needs. They provide a framework for how much a person can work, but provide extensive opportunities for different adaptations and exceptions for the benefit of employees and businesses who want to do so. Today's arrangements have been crucial for high female participation. Today's arrangements are modern, and they're flexible. In the processing of the notification, the opposition again attacks the arrangements. Under the cover of modernisation, the employer will again have more power at the expense of the employee. It's not modern politics. It's immature politics, which we've spent decades negotiating away from. The Workers' Party is committed to modern and flexible working time legislation, adapted to the real world and people's needs. We like to change it, but we do it based on real facts and needs and never on a dogmatic desire to move one and only on important power relationships in the world of work. We also have a working life where we see that some industries are characterised by high levels of unprofessionalism, social dumping and labour-life crime. The government has been actively fighting social dumping since 2005. We have implemented two action plans and a number of measures to ensure proper pay and employment. These action plans have now been evaluated by Fafo, which says that efforts have worked. But we want to move on. That is why the Communication now also provides the Labour Inspectorate with a stronger toolbox. That is why we have also announced a major conference for the autumn and a new offensive against social dumping and labour crime against 2013. It's sad to see that the right side of this case, and next time, as we are dealing with today, as usual, refuses to address new challenges and meet them with new measures, and that they will still not be involved in introducing new measures against social dumping. The next major challenge we face in the Norwegian labour market, and which we also address in the communication, is the involuntary nature of the labour market. Of course, it is a large proportion of involuntary part-time, it is about temporary staff, and it is about the very independent. Part-time work is a good thing for most people who work part-time. No one's against all part-time. It's the involuntary part-time we have to live. Too many, and women in particular, go on small job breaks through large parts of their lives. Therefore, we come in the message with a new leverage against involuntary part-time, with a number of proposals that could give more opportunities to work full-time. There are no hokuspocus proposals that will allow us to overcome the involuntary part-time alone, but we are now doing what we can with the law to contribute. The social partners, local politicians and the individual enterprise have a great responsibility, and there is also an enormous amount of good work and a lot of good organisation at the local level to get more full time. Another challenge we also address in the communication is about the temporary staff and the proportion of particularly independent. I'm glad that the entire committee, after the consultation, wants a review of the so-called "specially independent". But again, I note that the old classic dividing lines between the government parties and the opposition are clear: where we want to regulate and limit the use of temporaryity, the opposition once again promotes the old proposals to open up more use of temporary employment. The Labour Party has other and more forward-looking solutions to the challenges of working life. Instead of going back ten years to working time arrangements that have been negotiated away, and instead of providing lower job protection in response to getting people to work, we choose other strategies. We are building the barriers between those who stand far from working life and working life with others and better measures. We want to ensure flexibility and at the same time make it possible to make the most of the work we can do. We want to continue the fight against social dumping, for the right to full time and for a more inclusive working life. The state of the Norwegian labour market is largely good, but we are not in target. We have challenges and challenges to address. But the Workers' Party will always be the guarantor of a policy that combines growth and innovation with proper pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e200	The government has had a lot of focus on involuntary part-time, and that's very good. There is something the Progress Party actually supports. But the big challenge in the future is to get more people who work part-time on a voluntary basis, to work more, and then preferably all-time. What kind of grip will the government take when this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e207	It is nice to hear that the representative today says that the Progress Party is committed to combating the involuntary part-time. It is rarely reflected in the comments and votes of the Advance Party in Stortinget, but I am pleased that the representative today says that there will be a change in that. As I said, many measures are needed to reduce the involuntary part-time. To get this done, we're going as far as we can go today when it comes to using the law. So much of the job is up to the social partners. The organisation of individual workplaces is also important. But there is no doubt – and we have the trade movement with us on – that this government has taken a take-off against involuntary part-time. I also record that when it comes to remarks and voting in the Stortinget, unfortunately the Progress Party is not involved in that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e214	Let me first of all say that it is good that sick leave goes down. It hasn't actually been lower since the Right in Government. There is a broad consensus in Norway that tripartite cooperation is good. But sometimes one might suspect that the tripartite cooperation will be bipartite cooperation between one party in the red-green government and one of the employee organisations. In the class struggle on March 6th, we could read the following: ‘The Government attaches great importance to dialogue with ‘the social partners’, but speaks most and most to one party. [[...]] Just talking to LO is not a good thing.’ It is not a right-wing representative who says this, but a representative of one of the major social partners, namely the central association of professional organisations and their leader, Tore Eugen Kvalheim. So my question is, how will the Workers' Party ensure that tripartite cooperation does not become a bipartite cooperation, and give all the employee organisations the influence they deserve?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e228	I can assure the representative Røe Isaksen that the calendars of my employees and the representatives of the Workers' Party are full of agreements with all the parties on the employees' side in Norway. It is not that the Labour Party and the government only talk to the LO. It's a mantra we hear from the right-hand side all the time. That doesn't lead to correctness. We have great faith in – and great respect for – tripartite cooperation, but it should not surprise anyone that the Labour Party and the LO, like the professional and political part of the labour movement, have the same goal and a history that suggests that we are moving in the same direction and have extensive contact. However, it does not prevent equal contact and equal dialogue with the other employee organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e233	It was very good in the posts of the representative. What I am concerned about – and what the Christian People's Party wants – is a further development of the good working life we have in Norway; a sustainable working life where new jobs are created, where it is easy to enter, where there is an inclusive working life, and where a good balance is created between family life and working life. This was the representative inside, and I'm glad. However, one of the feedback we have received is that there are many – especially families – who want more flexible working hours, and who want a small embellishment of the average calculation or especially alternative turns. I actually experience the Workers' Party as a party that has been willing to discuss such solutions, but since 2005 it has locked itself completely in terms of today's work environment law. What is it that makes the Workers' Party so concerned that one should have it just like that, and cannot discuss that this is actually something that the workers want, and that will create more flexibility and security for many people?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e244	It is true that the Workers' Party is concerned that we should have flexibility for workers and businesses in relation to the Working Environment Act. We are constantly discussing changes in the Working Environment Act and the working time regulations, which are addressed here. But if we're going to make changes to the working time regulations, we're going to do it based on real needs out in the working day of people. We have very flexible working time arrangements today. For example, the ‘dream tournament’, as the representative mentions, is at some point more the norm than the exception. That's because the scheme works. If you use the possibilities within working time arrangements and apply for exemptions, you get the working time arrangements you want. But there is one important principle for us in the Workers' Party, and that is that the employee himself – either by his own vote directly up against the employer or through trusted people – should have the right to say no. We don't think we get a better working life where it's easier to get women, or men, to work and combine family life and children and working life, if the employer gets more power to push uncomfortable working time arrangements over to the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e250	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e253	As the good caregiver I am, and as an infirmary, I want to help the representative of the Trettebergstien with the memory. The Progress Party has submitted proposals for higher wages to the part-time workers in the health sector. We have supported part-time projects that the government presented both last year and this year. At the same time, we have also seen the focus on part-time workers for a long, long time. So it was my dear care of the representative Trettebergstien. The report takes account of developments in the labour market, working conditions, working conditions and safety. Working life has changed over time, through technology, internationalisation and globalisation, and in terms of living and housing patterns. The well-being approach is based on the fact that it is an advantage for individuals to have an association with the world of work. There is a lot of good work in Norwegian compared to other countries. Employment has changed in the last 30 years. Changes from an industrial community to a competence and technology society have developed rapidly. ‘All shall be included’ is the Government’s slogan. But is it that we have a working life where everyone gets to participate, use their abilities, talent and creativity, their intellect or their practical skills? For some groups, it's not like that. Too many people are out of work and without a chance to get into work. Among these potential workers are people with disabilities, immigrants, young people, long-term unemployed — many with low or no education. Despite the vast array of strategies and guarantees to get these groups into activity and work, it has not helped. The number of people outside is still too high. Young, healthy people drop out of school and end up as passive recipients of social benefits on Nav. The long-term guarantee for young people may work just as long as the various projects are in progress. But afterwards, the solution may be person-dependent – at the different Nav offices – considering whether the way forward will be good. Guidance and close, individual follow-up is needed to get more people into activity, which in turn can lead to work or education. It's about generating abilities, creativity, skills and motivation for the individual. That's where the focus needs to be, not on the system and the A4 mindset, where everyone is the same. Every single person has his unique skills and talent, and we have to be able to find out when we're going to get more into an activity cycle, which is once again going to lead to a place in the world of work. The unemployment rate among young people in Europe is alarmingly high, and it is not declining but increasing. Norway too has its challenges. We can't get more into the world of work by shutting down different groups, as the government's employment policy suggests. There's already created an A team and a B team in the world of work, and we can't afford to miss an entire generation because we don't understand what's going on among the kids. We rely on good counselors and counsellors early in school – someone who actually sees and encourages. We are forced to improve skills in vocational guidance and youth education and further education. We must recognize that not all are equally good theoretical, but through practical learning and approach to the subject, theoretically weak will also be able to become skilled professionals within their field. A report by NHV – Nordic University of Public Health – in 2011 shows that a range of studies have shown significant differences in mental health among those working, compared to those outside the labour market. ‘Youth unemployment poses a risk to mental ill health and creates an evil circle that can lead to long-term exclusion from the labour market’, claims teacher Lars Fredén, who researches in this area. In the Easter this year, Denmark's Radio made an impression. Danish research shows that the unemployed who have been late in working life are looking for pay. On average, there are 50,000 Danish kroner left in wages, which may amount to as much as 2 million. kr in a lifetime. In addition, they lose both their pensions and their start-up is slow. Researchers believe that a person loses a whole generation due to youth unemployment in Denmark. Unemployed Danes tell them that being unemployed has influenced them, even after they get into permanent employment. They start working life with the unemployed. This is not only true of Denmark, it may as well be like this in Norway. Being unemployed does something about a human being, not feeling useful and being able to contribute to society, and experiencing financial self-help, doing something about the self-image and self-knowledge of a human being. Minister of Labour Bjurstrøm and Prime Minister Stoltenberg are in charge of introducing pay proposals to employers who want to recruit young people on redundancy payments. This is a positive idea, but why does the government allow the use of temporary additions for some groups, but not for others? The Progress Party has said that it is a good way to get more people into the world of work, precisely by using more temporary additions. It is possible for those who do not have a reference or have compiled a CV to start a location, to just show up for an employer. Work and health are like hand in hand. Therefore, prevention, inclusion, working environment and co-destination must be the focus of a pulsating working life. This affects us for the rest of our life, in the family, in leisure – and not least in individuality, in a society. The family pattern has also changed. We no longer have so many nuclear families in generation homes living side by side with grandparents. Many people don't have parents around, there's more dissolved families with single parents, and there's a profession where working hours don't go out of the clock. 8 to 8 o'clock. 16th@item: inlistbox Many of these people want flexible arrangements where they can make an appointment with their employer when they can work, based on their life situation. If you have a child every weekend, it's quite natural that you work as much as possible the time you don't have to spend with your children, so that you can spend quality time with your children when you're free. Life has many phases, including when one goes from caring for children to caring for parents and other relatives. Many of these — women and men — are still active, but they have an additional tax because they have also taken care of their neighbors. Is it, then, that they should be forced to stop working or go down to the job break to get this done? Caring for life-threatening sick and dying relatives will often be very demanding. Many will therefore want or be able to take on the task. So what does that group identify as working and caring for family members in the final phase of life? In conjunction with Nav's report No. 2 of 2012 shows that the majority of those providing such care are women. We also see that in the 21st century, most of them were aged 30–49. In 2011, this age group accounted for half of female care recipients. However, the proportion of recipients is increasing among women 50 years of age and older, and had risen in 2011 to 47 pst. These developments may partly be a consequence of life expectancy continuing to grow, and therefore there are people over 50 years of age who are now experiencing the fall of parents and spouses. Another reason, in line with the SSB’s assessment, may be that more and more women in the 50-year-old age group are active and, therefore, less than in the past may be able to render this care unremunerated. Otherwise, it is also among male caregivers that the age group is the largest in the 30–49 age group. It is therefore necessary to have a working life that facilitates the different phases of life through which a worker is employed, especially if we want more people to work longer and more people to work. One thing is related to the other, and it's important to be able to see the whole thing. The Progress Party is not against a regulated working life, and we have respect for the laws and regulations that have been passed. We mean, on the other hand, that it is wrong to regulate the entire working life in such a way that one does not have the flexibility to make good adjustments between the individual employee and the employer. We know that approx. 70 pst. by employees, we want to work part-time on a voluntary basis, and we want to respect that. Many people want to work less during periods — for different reasons. After all, we have over 70,000 disabled people who are unable to contribute and who are not allowed to contribute, because there are not enough possibilities for them, but a lot of people want it. We can't force everyone working part-time to work full-time, because at the same time, we would tear down workers who are unable to work full-time, out of work. What we know is that there are a number of studies in which women and men are asked about their preferences for working life and why they work part-time. A constant finding is that many women want to work part-time, and many are content with the percentage of jobs they have. An important reason for this is private relationships, such as family obligations and leisure time. Part-time therefore appears to be a preferred working time for many women in the health and care sector. Many women also work part-time because the family actually can afford it. When the government wants to legislate the right to a full time, it's to bring down the involuntary part-time, it's claimed. But is this the solution to the involuntary part-time work? In the health and care sector, in many cases it is resolved, precisely because one is awarded individual contracts that are suitable for the individual employee and employer locally. In those cases where there is contact with the enterprises to listen to how they have managed to reduce involuntary part-time work, it just shows that many employees do not want to go into job breaks. There are good examples of how to do this in a good way. For example, I will mention Haukeland Hospital in Bergen, which has started with so-called trainee settings, where one gets firm, full settings, but one has to work in different departments. They also say that within six months, for those who go involuntary part-time, a full-time setting will be found for those who want it. On 11 May 2010, today's Business and Industry had an article about the municipality of Skien, where a project had to be stopped because the trade union referred to the Working Environment Act and the rules on the normal working day. The project would have added 275 jobs to the health sector. The schemes that some municipalities have tried with alternative turns are referred to. These have shown positive results for both users, employees and employers. The trade union currently has a «veto right» under the Working Environment Act and can set foot by local agreements that go beyond the normal working hours. With this, local governance will be restricted, and one will not be able to benefit from solutions for the individual employer locally, where there is unity from all parties. The employment message also takes account of unworthy employment conditions in the labour market. The party of progress will not have jobs where workers are treated badly and unworthy, where a foreign labour force is picked up or for the cause Norwegian labour force working black without any guarantee. We have supported many of the measures proposed by the government, but we are not some of the definitions used by the government on social dumping, where the practice is watered down and has lost its meaning – as it is being used today. It is not that you have poor working conditions because you are not subject to a collective agreement or you have a low salary. A moment that is almost absent from the message is how important it is with good guidance. In the annual European Employee Index survey, the Norwegian leaders are world-class on the soft side of the leadership role. This is well and good at overseeing rental. When it comes to creating performance cultures, clear goals and clear feedback, one of three employees is dissatisfied with their leader. We have to take this seriously. Poor rents are ripping people away from work. One becomes unsure, feels insecure and is not included. This leads again to sickness absence and at the next stage to disability. When as many as 100,000 leaders in this country lack basic knowledge and ability to carry out good leadership, which is so important, we have great challenges – 100,000 leaders and one in three employees is dissatisfied – it is serious. This should have been lifted up and not least been done with. Especially in the public, there's a problem with doing something about it, and there's maybe the biggest problem. When one today sees the headlines that say that 15 pst. by the workers feel bullied, it is really something you should grasp – and as a little bit of a finder in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e311	I just want to hear something about how the Progress Party thinks we are going to organise the future of work. The right-hand side talks about the need to weaken the employment environment law, so that it can be possible for employers to oblige people to work longer days, not only that it should be possible for workers to choose to work longer, but that the employer may require longer days to work. Then I ask, does it mean 14-hour days, 12-hour days, or maybe 16-hour days? How does the Progress Party feel that it should be possible to combine family life, to pick up in kindergarten and to combine leisure time – if you are required to work as long as the Progress Party outlines that they will weaken the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e318	I want to turn it down a little bit. I want to say that maybe it'll be shorter days. We have said that we want to set up a working time commission that will look at different ways of having a flexible working life on, not least in relation to employees, such as employees. are in trouble, and who may want to have shorter days one week and longer days the other week. It's customizing the individual, which we think is very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e323	Access to temporary employment has long been at the heart of a dispute, including in connection with the 2005 Grand Prix elections. After the red-green government won the election and reversed the Bondevik government’s proposal for the release of temporary employment, Robert Eriksson of the Advance Party said in Stortinget in 2005: ‘I find it very regrettable that the Government restricts access to temporary employment. I note that industry itself believes that it will clearly damage employment in general’. Furthermore, the representative Eriksson says: ‘I trust that the business community itself, which operates in the market, is best placed to see what type of employment and flexibility we need, and what will also benefit employees’ [[...]] In view of the nearly 300 000 jobs created since 2005, how well does the representative Reiertsen think these claims are keeping water today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e338	The President will remind the representative Laila Marie Reiertsen to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e341	I will deal with the proposals on which the Progress Party stands or is a co-sponsor. For me it will be a little wrong to comment on my own colleague's statements from a good many years ago. I can only speak for myself. I still mean that temporary additions are very good to use where there is a possibility for that. Of course, we have the goal of being a fixed addition, but we have a working life and a business that is often after people for projects. They have other possibilities when it comes to economics, they have to look at the economics of getting jobs in the long term and not least of letting other groups go into society. It's very positive what the government is doing, with just these temporary additions for some groups. I thought it was very good to get the most out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e348	The representative Laila Marie Reiertsen has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e351	The representative Reiertsen will not comment on this, and I understand that. However, an argument is constantly being used to reduce this temporaryity to an increasing extent in the Norwegian labour force, in order to get rid of vulnerable groups on the labour market. What evidence, what hold of these arguments, can the representative himself refer to when it is such a dramatic instrument that would mean insecurity for the many?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e358	I think it's about talking to people around. I've been to work myself, and I know about people who have come into temporary employment. They've been shown, they've used their abilities, they've seen that this is their chance. As a result, they have actually received fixed additions – although the company had actually not intended to create any fixed settings because they first wanted to see developments. But this has actually resulted in fixed settings, and I am very pleased, and therefore I have such faith in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e364	Then the cord shift is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e367	It is fully possible to have a through-ideological debate on Norwegian working life, or on working life in general, for that matter. Many have also tried in the past – both politicians, researchers and philosophers. It has even been built world empires based on philosophical and theoretical considerations around the world of work, on what was called the objective contrast between labour and capital. We might say that as in most other areas, today’s Norwegian working life shows that Karl Marx was both wrong and wrong. There are many, many decades ago – long before some of us lived here in the hall – that we had a working life in Norway that was marked by the contrast between labour and capital. It was also a working life characterized by conflict, strikes, unrest and social tensions. A marked change came with the main agreement in 1935. At that time, the labour force in Norway moved on to the path that has led to today’s cooperation policy. When you discuss working life, I think it makes sense, and honestly, to start working life as it actually is today. Sometimes, especially from parts of the radical left side, we hear that Norwegian working life in general is becoming increasingly brutal. That's not true! Let me say that there are still problems in the workplace. There are areas — albeit small — where there are still unacceptable pay and working conditions. But the big picture in Norwegian working life is not brutalization, but that working life is good. It is confirmed by figures from the work life barometer of the YS. It is confirmed by figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, by the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work and by the government's employment report. Nine out of ten Norwegian workers are satisfied with their job. Only three percent is dissatisfied. Norwegian working life is also well organised, and it is likely to have something to do with Norwegian working life being good. We have a high degree of organisation among employees, and we have an even higher degree of organisation among employers. We also have organisations that think completely and not just about special interests. It's important, and it probably has something to do with having large, wide associations in Norway and not small, isolated trade unions. This is important, and it is a value that we have to take care of in the Norwegian labour market. I also believe – and that is good reason to believe it, because it is well documented – that an organised working life can also be a competitive advantage for Norway. I admit that it may not always be as easy to understand from a theoretical perspective, because it might be tempting to imagine that a working life where there are unilateral decisions from the top is better and more effective. But it turns out that even though cooperation can be crooked and sometimes difficult, cooperation makes decisions anchored and thus easier to implement. We know this not least from industrial areas, such as the United Kingdom. Grenland, where I come from. Here, thanks to cooperation between management and employees, it has been clear to continue the Norwegian industrial venture – several decades after all experts and experts said that industry was a sunset industry. This culture of society, if we can call it that, also requires moderation of the parties. It kind of assumes a sense that we're all in the same boat, and then there are some things that are unwise. For example, it is unwise to require moderation of your employees if you intend to grant yourself a high supplement. My philosophy of working life is not Karl Marx. It's not Adam Smith either. If you were to point to someone who has inspired me and the Right, maybe it could be Jens Petter Ekorenes, who I was so lucky to know for a few years before he left too early in 2008. Jens Petter Ekorenes started working early at Ekorene's factories, on what was then called the "gold", along with the employees. But he came from the family that had interests, and that built the factory, so he also went to go to business schools and formal education. When Ekorenes returned to the Sykylven and Ekorenes factories in the 1990s, the factory went badly. Already then there was a feeling in Ekorene's factories that we are sitting in this together, and it was the workers on Ekorenes who came to the management themselves and said that now we are willing to go down to pay to save our jobs. Did Jens Petter Ekorenes then say that you can do that, but I gave myself a big supplement? No, he didn't say that. He said, well, then we, too, who are at the top, have to go down in pay. So it was that when you had turned the adventure around, when it was once again profitable and once again became profitable, the surplus was not put in one pocket, but it was shared with everyone who worked there. When Jens Petter Ekorenes was appointed knight of the 1st class of the Royal Norwegian St. Olav's order in 2005, he was almost a bit concerned, and that was because – as he said – that honor he should share with his 1,500 employees, because without them it would not have been possible for Jens Petter Ekorenes to receive the distinction. It's an example of one of the best in Norwegian working life, and history represents important values that we're going to take care of. But it is also the case that Norwegian working life is changing because the world is changing. Some of the keys in the Norwegian model — although sometimes trying to claim the opposite — have not been that one has stood still, rather on the contrary, it has been that one has constantly adapted the Norwegian model to the challenges to come. Let me point to six major challenges in the world of work. The first has already been mentioned by several, namely that in a 20-year perspective, there are more people who fall out of work. We are most concerned that more young people never get into the labour market and that the increase in young people's disability is great. The second challenge is that the world economy is in a state of disrepute. Although Norway is currently doing well, there is every reason to believe that this will affect us more and more. One of the reasons why we can be a country with high wages is that we have high productivity. The productivity growth is now not falling, at least the increase is not as strong as in the past. What we know is that the talk in Europe is now going to be growth, competitiveness, change, productivity. If we are to defend our high salary level, we need to work smarter, and business and jobs need to have the flexibility to make rapid changes, improve competitiveness and secure Norwegian jobs. The third challenge is the ageing wave. It's going to give us an enormous need for resources in care and care. It also means that we have to make the best use of our labour force. We need respect for negotiated agreements in the labour market, but there is no doubt that small changes in today’s legislation – soft, moderate adjustments – could make better use of the health and care workforce than today. The fourth is that everyday life has changed too many families. The most obvious thing is, of course, that where you had a lot of women at home a few decades ago, you have women out in work today. Most families today have two out to work. But there are also more people who are different than before. It's different family patterns than it was in what was called the industrial community. This also means that many workers are looking for a little more flexibility than today. The next challenge is the law and how it harmonizes with the reality of the world of work. Of course, it's a trivial point that someone's breaking a law, not in itself, is an argument to change the law. But it may be that if a law is consistently broken or almost impossible to comply with – if people are the most offenders, or corporations or public institutions are the most lawbreakers – there may also be some problems with the law, not only with people most, businesses or agencies. 28 000 breaches of the Working Environment Act in Trondheim municipality a few years ago, 50,000 violations in one of our largest health companies. We asked the Ministry of Defence if they were able to do the job with the defence's long-term plan without breaking the environmental protection law. The answer was no. There is no excuse to break the law, but there is reason to see whether the law is adapted to work. The last challenge is that after 2004, employment in Norway has changed because we have had more immigrants entering the labour market. That's essentially very good. There is a broad consensus in this room that when you come to Norway to work, you should also get the same rights as others. At the same time, together with some other slippages in the workplace, it has caused problems in parts of the world of work. Unworthy conditions have been seen, and not least unprofessional actors who violate Norwegian law and who violate Norwegian law in a way that no party in this room believes is acceptable. We want a good labour market, which is open, but we do not accept social dumping through unacceptable wage and working conditions. A good starting point in the discussion about modern, safe and flexible working life is first of all a description of how working life actually is today. Then I think Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg came with the second good point in a chronicle in Today's Business 21st May last year, where he wrote about the work environment law: ‘This law is not to be regarded as having been stoned. We will modernise the law in the course of the development of working life.’ That was also the Labour Party's line earlier. It was the Stoltenberg I government that put down the Labour Law Committee to go through the Norwegian Labour Code. Minister of Labour Jørgen Kosmo, who was responsible for the field at the time, was also very clear that if clear boundaries were to be maintained as protected workers, there was room for some more flexibility within the framework, which could mean, for example, that there was a need for more flexibility. For some periods, work could work even a little more than the law allowed at that time, and in other periods less, to compensate for it. It was in 2000 the Labour Party's policy, a policy that was thought to be good both for industry, for the public sector and for workers. I agree. The challenge is simply that when you say today that you need to modernise the law as you progress in working life, and at the same time you have a health minister who runs the field where you have about the most violations of the Work Environment Act, which says that for the Workers' Party, the Working Environment Act is sacred, you have taken the exact opposite position. The theological may get my colleague from the Christian People's Party to take care of – whether it is wise to proclaim some laws created by human hands, to holy ones. That's one thing. But the second is whether this is a good starting point for today's discussion of employment. Unfortunately, with the exception of this ray of sunshine from Jens Stoltenberg in Today's Business 21 May 2011, the Workers' Party has taken an exceptionally rigid position in this matter. You say not to change a comma in the law. A position has been taken where one does not hesitate to say – as there is a broad consensus – that we should have a balance between safety and flexibility in working life. However, it has been said in practice that the Working Environment Act, as it stands today, is optimal. It is ‘holy’. It's a bad starting point, and it's with respect to report a position that's more Catholic than the pope. We will take care of the best in Norwegian working life. At the same time, we need to develop further. We shall do so gradually and step by step, respecting both the needs of business and the needs of employees. We need a power cap to bring down the number that's in the outside cabinet. We need a strong labour-environment law that protects workers. It is and should remain a basic plank in Norwegian working life. It is also important not to forget that today's law provides a lot of flexibility. At the same time, it is desirable to have some moderate and careful decorations that provide a little more flexibility for both workers and employers than today. Not least, I think we should have such confidence in the social partners locally that we decentralise several of the decisions and allow them to be determined by agreement at the individual workplace. We also need good controls. Not least, this means that the Labour Inspectorate, which is to check that the Work Environment Act is being complied with in practice, must work. Work supervision must be strengthened, both as a professional body and as a supervisory body. Right-wing policies, which we have now also largely agreed with both the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, are based on the idea that we should take care of some of the best in Norwegian working life, while changing the pact over time. This means that we have to have clear limits on how much overtime work is allowed. We must ensure the trust-chosen participation. We're going to have to keep the law on overtime payments. We need strong guarantees against incalculable dismissal. But there's still room for careful decorations. Unfortunately, the position of the working party is that everything is optimal as it is today. Then I doubt whether you have listened to what is actually happening in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e417	The representative, Røe Isaksen, was concerned not to stand still, but to move forward and to meet new challenges in working life with new measures. Social dumping may not be a new phenomenon, but the extent has increased in recent times. Here again, we see that the Right disagrees when the government proposes offensive and effective action against a major problem. We had implemented one of two action plans against social dumping before the Right recognised social dumping as a problem at all. We are seeing it again in the Chamber today, that when important measures are taken to combat discrimination in terms of pay and working conditions, the right is against. Why is it that the Right does not recognise and agree to give e.g. Does the Labour Inspectorate have the tools they want and need to be able to punish the injuries in the industry, which we see repeatedly violates acceptable pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e422	It is not true that the Right does not recognise the existence of social dumping. I said that very clearly here, and it has also been very clear and clear in our remarks many, many, many years ago. As the representative is well aware, the Right has also voted in favour of 19 of the 24 proposals contained in the two action plans against social dumping. It's a little strange that this comes as a question today, when the Labour Party and the Right are going to adopt today a very important law, which is to ensure that you get equal treatment between temporary workers, i.e. hired labour, and those who are already in the sector. Today, together, we are going to adopt the agency directive, and I think that will also be an important contribution to social dumping. But it's true that the Right has been skeptical of some of the instruments. Among other things, we have have been sceptical about joint responsibility, and we have been skeptical about right of access, to mention something. I think I'll say it this way: when you talk so nicely about tripartite cooperation, it's worth the fact that the social partners actually agree as much as possible on the instruments you use, and unfortunately the government hasn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e431	I would remind you that the Right has voted in favour of a number of proposals, but I voted against the proposals that have worked. This has been evaluated, among others. by Fafo, and the answers are clear. We'll see it again today. Although the Right is in favour of the principle of non-discrimination in the next case, the Right is in favour of the means of achieving the principle of non-discrimination. Røe Isaksen mentioned well-organised working life as an instrument for social dumping. How, then, is it that the representative Røe Isaksen and Right is to cut off the union deduction, which is a good tool for improving the level of organisation, while employers, on their side, are still allowed to withdraw from their share?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e438	I think it is alarming if 19 out of 24 proposals in the government's action plans against social dumping do not work at all. To put it this way, there must have been something serious wrong with the processes when the proposals were presented. There are important proposals there, for example: the ID card scheme in the clean-up sector, on which we have been a strong supporter. We have even criticized the government because we believe the scheme was too weak. We have also been strongly committed to the fact that when public procurement is to be made, the underlying Norwegian terms and conditions of employment and pay must be such that the public purchaser does not contribute to the dumping of labour conditions. If there are measures that have no effect, it will surprise me. Neither does Fafo's review. As regards the tax deduction for trade-union deductions, it is true that the Right has reduced it to the same level as under the Stoltenberg I Government. We have also been able to do that because ordinary employees with Right Policy are left with more in their wallet than under the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e445	In the last few days, the right has had a rhetoric that working life is so good, so it is not a problem to weaken the Working Environment Act. They have thus provided for a weakening of protection against long working days, which is laid down in the Working Environment Act. Nevertheless, the Right does not confirm how long they believe that Norwegian workers should be imposed. I asked – I asked the same question to the Progress Party without getting an answer: Does the Right believe that Norwegian managers should be able to impose 12, 14 or 16 hours of work when they now call for a weakening of the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e450	I would like to thank you for a good question. I want to say it this way: today there is a very clear distinction in the law regarding overtime for how much you can be required to work. It's 200 hours for unorganized workers. In addition, it may be necessary to obtain permission from the Labour Inspectorate or to be organised. We have not proposed doing anything with this 200-hour framework, but what we have proposed is that if there is a local consensus, a somewhat more liberal framework can be negotiated after local negotiations. I think that's a good idea, and I think we should have such confidence in the parties locally. In concrete terms, there is today the possibility of working up to 13 hours. I also think it's important to look at the limits of so-called averaging, but it's important to stress that it means that you can work more in some periods because you work less in other periods. So it's not about people working more in everything, but it's about working smarter and something more intense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e461	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e464	This is the first communication on employment, working environment and safety in Norwegian working life that has been submitted to the Stortinget. Overall, it shows that we have a good working life in Norway, as we have not needed this message before. Compared to other countries, we have a very low pay structure in Norway, without too much gap between management salaries and employees' wages. That's good, because it's about the distribution of money, it's about the distribution of power, and it's really about democracy. Norwegian employment is good in this way. That's why it's also important to have targets for the changes we're making, that we don't have to increase the differences, but we're going to reduce the differences -- still. It is important to raise low-wage workers, it is important to ensure the right to full and – initially – permanent jobs. For us, it is important to fight social dumping, the right and the possibility to trade-organise and the ability to actually live off the job you do. A decent working life is about the freedom to provide and about a fair distribution of power and resources in society. Over the last 10 to 20 years, we have seen a change in working life for many. From I became a teenager, to when I started at the job I have today outside this house, we have experienced more than a twenty-fold increase in turnover to temporary employment agencies in Norway – from 1 to 20 billion. kr from 1993 to 2008. Maybe it's the age that makes me know too many people who are not fully established in Norwegian working life with what they want: full and permanent jobs. Maybe it's the age, but I think it's the working life that's changed. Unfortunately, it is also the case that the state, through state businesses or the state agencies, does not fully and to a large extent buy services from, treat workers as we might wish. There's still a little too good opportunities for temporary workers, for rent, etc. Then I ask: How easy is it to go to the bank and get a loan to buy a dwelling when your employment contract lasts from August to November, then to start again from mid-January and last until the week before Easter, and then to get a contract offer from two weeks after Easter until mid-June? Or why does a family father not get regular employment in a state company, but rather is encouraged to be self-employed to work in the company – alongside permanent employees, with the same tasks, but with a completely different level of security for the working situation, for bank loans and for the future? I mention here that there was also a proposal for a contract until 30 June, with a new contract from 1 August and until November, and then you should be allowed to get a vacation, you should not get a contract in the state businesses or where the state buys services. How nice is it to be employed via a temporary employment agency to work in the state in the second year? It must also be mentioned that working conditions around holidays and pay are good, but there is no safety. It does not give the same opportunity to dry to say no to working overtime, and there is always a pressure to provide more than the maximum to renew and extend the work contract. This is happening all over the country. The examples I mentioned above include: taken from Bergen, Oslo and from my own hometown of Hamar, and the state is in no way in a special position. There is absolutely nothing better to be a cleaner, a shopkeeper or a health professional with small contracts, even if they are actually working almost full-time jobs. It doesn't help much when you get to the bank and apply for a mortgage if you can't refer to a full and preferably fixed position. What does it do with notice time when, for example: A cleaner has a 0-hour call contract? Yes, the working relationship is over when the agreed working hours have been completed. In reality, the period of notice is running from the moment when the watch is agreed. Does it provide a basis for security in everyday life? I ask the questions and do not answer them, but you can think for yourself – the answer is obviously no. So I can ask: how easy is it to organize yourself in the future if there is only one or two or maybe no one who is permanently employed at a workplace, and the rest is hired through so-called recruitment agencies? I have difficulties in understanding how employers – because it is the employers’ side that, together with the civil parties, ask for a weakening of the Working Environment Act – can get good quality of the services to be provided, or how to gain good competence among employees, when employees initially have small jobs and find employment solutions. A person who does not know how long to work will not have the same opportunities for professional immersion as you would have had if you had a full and permanent job. Hospital residents do not get a better quality of care because there are a lot of people working in small jobs. They also lack stability or security. It may not be so strange, but we believe that people do the best under proper working conditions. In fact, it will be both better quality and stability for both users and employees if we are able to get more full and permanent jobs, and if we do not soften the work environment law, as some suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e494	I share part of the representative's considerations about having a regular job versus being in a temporary job, and among other things. the fact that, for example: It can be a problem to get a loan – it's a real problem. Now it's worth stressing that when the opposition thinks that you're going to have an embellishment, that is, to give the private the same code you have in the state today, it's because the other positive side of it is that it can give more people a chance in the world of work. That's something we also see in other countries; so if it's too hard to hire, it's also the most vulnerable groups that get hit hardest. But what I was going to ask was whether, as the representative said, it is only the employers who want a small decoration of the work environment law. Is it possible that workers too can benefit from this? Then we don't talk about people working around the clock for lice pay, but then we talk about ordinary workers who might want a little more flexibility for when they're going to take out their hours of work, and when they're going to be free.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e503	Well, there's a lot of employees who want flexibility, and so the word flexibility is a good word. But most people – I think all of them I have met – say that in today's legislation we have the opportunity to negotiate with the employer and get the appropriate solutions that you need. There is no need to weaken the Working Environment Act in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e508	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e511	The employment message is thus historical in that it is the first time such a message is sent to the Stortinget, and it is also the first time there is such a wide discussion and review here in the hall. The message clearly shows that the situation in Norwegian working life is basically good. The centre party is pleased to record that we are cutting high in international work environment studies and that fewer and fewer workers are exposed to negative occupational environmental taxes. The fact that we have what is one of the world's best work environments comes from good work from the trade union movement, and that there has been good cooperation between the social partners and the authorities combined with a balanced work environment law. Despite this good work environment, the message nevertheless tells us that there are some main challenges to today's working life, such as high sick leave and debauchery on one side and unprofessionalism and social dumping on the other. Unfortunately, parts of the world of work are characterised by high sick leave, and many suffer, as for example. within the health and care sectors and the transport sector. To meet this challenge, the government has e.g. established a more efficient IA agreement. This is a successful grip, and we are fortunately beginning to see the results of a significant reduction in sick leave. Although the quality of Norwegian work is good, Norway still has major challenges. High occupational environmental taxes can lead to health damage, sick leave, suffocation and lower productivity. This is not only a serious problem for the individual, but also for society and for the enterprises. Some occupational groups still have a significantly higher occupational health and safety tax than others, and on some work environment indicators the trend is negative. In particular, the centre will demonstrate that regulation and regulation to ensure a good working environment can be a challenge in industries characterised by many small businesses, such as industry. in the framework of craft industries and agriculture. The importance of such industries means that we should ensure a regulatory framework that is both easy to understand and easily accessible. In addition, it is important to ensure that the HMS Code is anchored in different legislation and is followed better than today. The party looks forward to the government's proposals for action, including new and simplified health, environmental and safety legislation under the work environment law, information and training work in advance, tripartite cooperation and better school-based HMS training. The centre party believes that Norwegian petroleum industry should be world-lorded in the case of HMS. Although the HMS standard on Norwegian pedestal is mainly good, some serious events in recent times, together with certain developments, give cause for increased attention to the sector. A separate, holistic review of the HMS regime in the sector, which is notified in the message, is therefore necessary. Real and well-functioning equivalent tripartite cooperation in this sector is also important. Apart from employers and employers' responsibilities and the important role of the parties in defence, different governmental supervisory bodies, such as the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority, are decisive tools in the authority's efforts to secure decent working life in line with the law. The central party believes that further strengthening of supervision will be important. Single industries, e.g. the cleaning industry and the restaurant industry are characterised by many unprofessional activities and social dumping. The centre party is aware that work against social dumping is a major challenge in the field of working life, especially in the context of increasing labour migration. If unprofessionalism and social dumping are to continue to intervene in Norwegian employment, this will lead to an A and B team of workers with different social standards. But it will weaken the whole of our steady work model and also the basis of an efficient business. Social dumping and black work are a threat to all serious employers and businesses. The government has been working on the problem of social dumping since the government shift in 2005 and has, among other things, promote and implement two action plans against social dumping. A number of actions are developed, adopted and implemented. According to an evaluation carried out by Fafo, it has had a good effect. At the same time, social dumping has shown that poor working conditions are not the only experiences of migrant workers. In parts of Norwegian working life, the standard has to be raised. The Centre Party will participate in the efforts to meet the challenges of discrimination, equality and the working environment in Norwegian workplaces. We need to make sure that working life is even more useful than it is today, in terms of the competences of people with disabilities. An inclusive working life will contribute to the creation of value and to the development of skills and working environment in the workplace. The centre party believes that the need for labour must be resolved first and foremost by the presence of several of those who are currently outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e537	There is a lot to enjoy in the Norwegian working life. Overall, it's good – and it's good! In order to ensure that working life continues to be good, it is central to working well with tripartite cooperation, which can thus ensure that the different interests are safeguarded and that we have a sustainable working life. The labour market must be competitive on the international market. Focusing on education, research and innovation is central. Work life must also be marked by the fact that everyone who can be at work will have the opportunity to do so. It is important for man's self-esteem and self-esteem, it is health-promoting, and it counteracts poverty. An inclusive working life is central to preventing exclusion. In order to achieve this, it is important that tripartite cooperation is maintained and developed. The employer needs to be given the opportunity for development, profitability, sustainability and innovation, in order to generate jobs. An adequate level of protection must be ensured for the worker. Although a lot is good, we have some major challenges in some sectors, such as: social dumping, health problems, exclusion and involuntary part-time. People with disabilities and those with a foreign cultural background are struggling to fit into working life. In addition, we need a more offensive policy to strengthen families. The family is the basic cell of society. It is therefore very important that it is organised so that it is possible to better combine family life and work. Different phases of life require more flexibility in terms of working time and volume of work. Therefore, we must have a more life-stage-adapted working life, as the nature of the work permits. In this way, work can be more easily combined with care for children, sick or elderly family members. By making it easier and more predictable to use the exemptions for working time schemes in the Working Environment Act, flexibility for families can be ensured. It is therefore appropriate to give back the possibility of approving so-called alternative tours and thus ensuring local adaptations. It's at the workplace you know where the shoe prints, and therefore what's best for the individual family. It is important that the Labour Environment Act takes account of the needs of workers for protection, but also of their demands for flexibility in order to strike the right balance between work and leisure. The provisions of the Working Environment Act on the average calculations and take-off of overtime should therefore, in order to become more flexible for individuals, be somewhat decorated, in particular because the Work Environment Act has become a law that is being broken to the extent that it is. It should have been simplified, and the law should have been more user-friendly. The fact that the government parties have locked themselves completely in adjusting the work environment law disappoints me. Social dumping is a major challenge in some industries, where unaccountable operators give up landless pay, below tariffs, overtime working days and unwarranted living conditions. Labour immigration is very high, and the focus on combating social dumping must therefore remain high. In order to have a competitive labour market, it is particularly important that companies in Norway compete on equal terms. Enterprises shall not benefit from competitive advantage because of cheap labour. The measures must be targeted at those sectors where this is a problem. The products put into use in the generalised industries are partly practical and essentially objectionable and should therefore only be used to respond to the specific cases of social dumping. Many people experience involuntary part-time, and most of these are women. Some jobs speculate in employing people in part-time jobs to reduce overtime use. It is very important that good rules are in place to ensure that employees who experience that the employer deliberately hires people in a part-time position to circumvent the legislation. Involuntary part-time is something that needs to be taken seriously to ensure that the workforce is able to use its capacity and guaranteed the rights that are granted by working full-time. Fortunately, for most people this period is short-lived. The major problem concerns those who remain temporarily employed for a long time. The largest group of part-time workers is in the care sector, where 24 hours of staffing is required throughout the week. Different attempts at so-called alternative tours show that part-time problems and sick leave can be reduced, as well as increased well-being among employees and users. It is therefore sad that the government parties do not want to open up a little more flexible arrangements, so that we can meet the challenges of working life. Predictability for both employer and employee is important. It is therefore crucial that the main rule of Norwegian working life should be regular, permanent employment, if necessary. However, I would like to point out that recruitment agencies, which we will talk about later today, or temporary employment can be a very important gateway to working life for those who are outside. With a rigid system, the threshold for entering the labour market will be very high, which will particularly affect groups with difficulties in finding work. In the revised national budget for 2012, the government has opened up this for those with reduced working capacity. It is very good, but they should have opened up to several groups who are struggling to get into the workplace. The Civil Service Act provides for further access to temporary employment. I wonder that the public – the state – should have more opportunity for this than the rest of the world of work. The rules of the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act should therefore be harmonised. It's not about an A team and a B team – it's about an A team and about people sitting on the bench. I constantly meet people who are out of work and who want to contribute what they can. The willingness to work for those with disabilities is high, but unfortunately the major obstacles to the road, such as lack of knowledge, are encountered by both the employee and the employer, about the tools and measures available to include them in the labour market. It is important that the public as an employer is a driver to help more people work. It is worrying that the number of people with disabilities is increasing, and in order to prevent these people from staying out of work for the rest of their lives, it is very important to bring them into labour market action. The number of intervention sites has decreased, while the number of people with reduced working capacity has increased. This is not satisfactory. From January 2006 to May this year, this number has increased from 153 100 to 212 707 people. In January 2006, there were 61,700 responses; for 2012, the government has provided only 54,200 job-reduction sites for those with disabilities. This means that in 2006 they got approx. 40 pst. of those with reduced ability to work, there is only about an opportunity to take action in 2012. 25 pst. which will have this possibility. A number of action areas and good job clearance are therefore something that should be taken into account in order to allow more people to return to work. It is very gratifying that the Council of State will now grant wage subsidies to enterprises that employ young people at risk of falling out of work. It will be exciting to follow the development of this action. In addition, I want to mention, as we discussed yesterday, that we have to do more with the big differences in Nav between the states in getting people out of work. I expect the Council of State to take the necessary steps to sort this out, so that we can help even more people out in work. As of today, there is no regulated access to leave for the employer, but it can be seen from labour market practices, case law and collective bargaining agreements. In addition, a number of provisions require a permit access. This means that those who are not organised today are based on a somewhat unclear legal area, which demonstrates the need for codification of the rules on leave. That is why we have a proposal to legislate for the permit rules in this setting. As I started with, Norwegian work is very good, and we are very lucky – especially in view of the high youth unemployment rate in Europe. We have good resources, and we have to use them well. The focus must be on helping out-of-work people, especially young people and young adults, and particularly the long-term unemployed in this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e572	I have noticed on several occasions that the representative Ropstad tabloidises the government's efforts for workers with disabilities. Today, he is acting correctly in a somewhat more moderate version, but we have recorded that the government's efforts for this group of workers have been quite formidable in recent years, and I mention in short: the default notification, the employment guarantee and now the last pay guarantee scheme. On the other hand, I miss the alternative of Ropstad. Is it the case that there are only a number of temporary jobs to solve the problem we are all facing, namely to provide more jobs for those with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e579	Thank you for a good question, Gullvåg. Every year, in our alternative budget, we have had a significant investment and an increase in the government's budget in the number of action places. That's an example. However, we have also had several measures relating to tools to help disabled people and also to reduce their working capacity, such as: with work organisation, BPA or other measures. But the whole thing also: we know that for these people, it's often about drugs, it's about mental disorders, and in both of these areas, we've had a lot of bet. Then I have to say that when I have visited many labour market businesses around, there are many who say that they are missing when the Højbråt was Minister of Labour. It is not necessarily to be reduced for the current Minister of Labour, for she is very good, but it says something about the level at which the effort was made under that government. And as we discussed yesterday, the focus on management is probably so important. Now there's been better things in Nav, but there's been a period when we haven't got the full effect out of the system we have, and I'd like to say that our policy would get more into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e588	I note that the representative, Ropstad, was in fact more satisfied with the efforts of the Bondevik II Government for those with reduced working capacity than with the efforts of this government. It's self-explanatory for what's the position of this party. It is quite unmistakable that we should be able to do this big task without growth in employment, and since 2005, we have had growth in employment with 300,000 new jobs, which is a prerequisite for people with disabilities, working capacity, to have their place in the labour market. I notice that the representative Ropstad is neglecting this great effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e595	I am happy to get that question, because it may give me the opportunity to answer that if you look at the number of employees, yes, the increase has been great since 2005. However, if you look at the proportion of people employed, it is exactly the same today as it was in 2005, and that means that it is especially labour immigration or population growth that has caused it. Then it also ends up in what we discussed yesterday, that we are struggling to get young people, immigrants, those with disabilities and those with disabilities into work. This is where my main criticism has been against the government, that we have not succeeded in getting more people to work. Therefore, I would also like to say that one of the most important things we can do is work with an inclusive working life, so that employers get more faith in those groups that are struggling to get into the labour market. But I also miss more focus from the government on looking at the Nav offices and the states that work, and that deliver, because if we had taken that potential out, we would get a lot more people out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e601	The Christian People's Party seems to be approaching the Right in Labour Policy, if that's what we can read through the last few days' look-up. It is worrying that these parties are unable to say clearly and clearly how many hours the employer can charge an employee to work, if one day they get a say in their policy. How does the Christian People’s Party feel that the 12 - or 14 - hour workday imposed is compatible with normal and good family life?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e608	I think the correct description will be that the Right approaches the Christian People's Party in labour policy – at least in the policy we stand together on in the position today. It is a very good policy that the Christian People's Party is proud that we have an agreement, so that any change in 2013 can mean it. Now the Christian People's Party is going to clarify which direction we're going in, but there's a lot of evidence that we want a shift, and we have good experience from the Bondevik II model. With regard to the specific changes, it is today that you can make an appointment with the employer on your own 9 hours a day, you can make an appointment with the trustees 10 hours a day and then with the Labour Inspectorate 13 hours. We've said that we want to do something with the limit of 9 and 10 hours-- maybe it's 10 and 11 hours. That's because we want when there's consensus locally, not by coercion, a person can find flexibility. I'm sure that will help the families of children. I also believe that the policy of the Christian People's Party in total, and as it is added together with several parties in the opposition, will result in families getting a better combination between work and family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e625	I have most suggestions in the room. In reality, we have tabled eleven proposals in this matter. We would like to sit in the committee, and we would like to have more than 5 minutes of speaking time, but to say that: the left may not be so good at writing chronicles, but we are very good at promoting our policies in matters! We have a wish for changes in this field. The Working Environment Act is an important foundation for a good working life. When I open my iPad many times a day, I always look at a picture of Gunnar Knudsen, the great reformer, the great building of our welfare state, one of the big employers in the 1920s and 1930s with a lot of conflicts in the working life, without ever having a strike among his own employees. Making an inclusive, good and flexible working life is not about everything being like it was when Gunnar Knudsen fought his reforms. If you're happy about something, you have to reform it too. That is why the Left has tabled eleven proposals here today. The legislative proposals come up with proposals in case No. 4 because this is a message. Here only our verbal proposals come up, and then our amendments to the Working Environment Act come under case no. 4, whereas they are in reality an answer to the challenges of this matter. One of the most important things to renew legislation in this area is to adapt to new family structures, new work structures and new ways of working. We believe it is important to be able to see working time over longer periods than what is done in the Working Environment Act today, and we want a fight against long-term temporary employment. The challenge today is not the short-term employment. Short-term employment is the entrance of the labour market for many who today experience exclusion. What is the big problem in Norwegian working life today is the long temporary jobs and young people who never get a mortgage because they do not get a job contract that says they have worked long enough. In the media and in research and higher education, this is very common. This is one of the major challenges of fundamental injustice. Therefore, the Left wants to break up in the case of short-term temporary employment and tighten up on the long-term. We also want a greater similarity between private and public business. I don't understand, if we think that the measures we have under the IA agreement, which I think are very good, why they should be reserved for some employees. Why are there some workers who do not have access to public services in order to maximise the organisation of working life? I don't understand. Nor do I understand when the government makes a 400-page communication on social rights and the possibility of equality in working life, why not even mention how unfair it is that many who are now seafaring entrepreneurs, who create their seas for work, do not have the social rights and the social network that workers have. We are also promoting proposals for a warning unit. Ensuring social alerts today is a huge challenge. There's something we should be able to do to make our working life better. This is one of the many injustices that many people experience. Then I have to say something about the old legislation we have on working time. Today it's like if you're a baby's parent and you want to go home early from work to make dinner, to sit and have a good time with your kids, to be able to join the football training and to be able to participate in the social activities of your children, and then to sit down with the job and answer some e-mails an hour between nine and ten before you go to bed, it's illegal. According to the work environment law that we have today, it is not allowed to go home early and have a good family life so that you can sit down with the job an hour or two after the children have settled down. I think that is a good example of a work environment law that has not taken on board a new family structure, new expectations that both parents want to be with their children, that both parents want to be able to contribute, that they can not only be good workers, but also be good parents with a good family.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e652	It is not easy to get an overview of the labour policy of the Left, but their budget is limited in terms of wages and salaries, among other things. in the event of bankruptcy. It's cut in sick pay by $1.7 billion. kr, and the length of sick leave is reduced from 12 to 11 months, which will lead more people to disability benefits and redundancy benefits. The left has also provided for more temporary employees and less tax, and we both read and hear that the Left will reduce or frustrate tripartite cooperation in the IA agreement. The Left Party and the Progressive Party have really found each other in labour policy. The Progress Party will reduce the labour force's power, among other things. in the case of working hours. Does the Left agree that workers have too much power? And does the Left agree with the Advance Party that trade unions should have less influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e659	No, no, no. The left is too strong a trade movement. We believe that we need strong professional movements to get the interaction between the employer and the employee that is good for creating a good working life. Now the representative made a lot of claims about the Left State budget, and I can't go through everybody. But to put it this way, when we cut the number of measures, it's because it has an impact on our budget. The Ministry of Finance also says that more people will come to work with the State budget of the Left. We have a very active labour market policy, which is about more people going to work, more of them at the breaking point of professional life today, having the opportunity to get into it. Among other things, all the proposals we have are that more people should have access to the labour market. We're going to have a flexible labour market that more people find a place in, and then you're going to have to assume that the labour market has actually changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e666	The left has shown a strong drive to weaken the Employment Environment Act in order to give employers greater opportunity to direct even more of their daily lives to Norwegian workers. In fact, the left went so far as to say that there was something wrong with the work environment law, and not the company, when the extensive breaches of the work environment law at Adecco's nursing home in Oslo were revealed. I wonder if it's overnight in bombs or violent exceedances of working time regulations Left feels so enticing that they think it's future for our working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e671	These claims are not related. What we're proposing, actually, is to strengthen employees' rights, to allow them the flexibility they actually demand. I don't understand why it's not possible for the government to say that one of the biggest challenges for employees today is that they have temporary employment for eternity. It's about young people who come to the bank after working for many years in a company, don't have a chance of getting mortgages because they can't refer to a contract, that they're a permanent employee. While tightening up the short-term employment and saying it's about exclusion, it's the long-term temporary workers who are actually being excluded from the labour market. That's one of the changes we want. That's one of the rights we actually want with the proposals. We want a flexible working life that is linked to the challenges facing society today. That's the suggestions we put in here. We're not submitting any suggestions for brutalization. We do not make any suggestions about fighting so that employees do not get their rights. But we are proposing a flexible new working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e679	One of the most important steps we can take to stimulate more people to organise is to ensure the deduction of trade union quotas. The left has repeatedly, including under Bondevik II, entered in order to cut the deduction from the union quota, with the result that fewer are organised. Equality between the social partners is a matter of public opinion. But can a reasonable explanation be given as to why the Left believes that as an employer you should be fully stimulated by the fact that everything can be written off by being organised in an employer's organisation, while constantly attacking the ability of the trade unions to deduct the same quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e684	We don't attack, we're on the same level as we did when we were in Bondevik II. We've kept that level. I have so much faith in the trade movement that they actually manage to recruit members on the basis that people want to have these rights, not that it won't cost anything to be a member. I have such great faith in the trade movement that it is actually possible for them to recruit members, sail if it is not free to be a member. I have such faith in the trade movement that they can actually offer something to people, so that they feel that they get something back for the membership quota. That's how I believe I thought the Workers' Party should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e691	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e694	The Employment Communication is a unique document in the history of Norwegian employment policy. It is the first time such a message has been submitted, and it is the first time such a broad review is discussed here in Stortinget. Through this communication, we have received a comprehensive and robust description of Norwegian working life, which has broad support from the social partners, and the Stortinget is invited to a debate on the fundamental issues and challenges of Norwegian working life. The notification clearly shows that the overall state of the Norwegian working life is good. As the Committee has also noted, we are cutting high in international work environment studies, and an increasing proportion of workers are exposed to negative work environment pressures in most areas. This good working life has not come about by itself. It is the result of good and hard work through generations of the Norwegian trade union movement, a good cooperation between the Norwegian labour force and the authorities, combined with a balanced labour environment law. I am pleased that the Committee points out that the cooperation of the parties in Norwegian working life is of great value to society as a whole, to the working conditions and productivity of the enterprises, as well as to the participation and influence of the individual employee. We must take care of good work, and we must protect it every day. However, the state description identifies some main challenges that are important both for individuals and for society. These are, in short, a high level of sick leave and exclusion on the one hand and unprofessionalism and social dumping on the other. In addition, I would like to mention increasing challenges of renting. Unfortunately, parts of the world of work are characterised by high levels of sick leave and many who become ill, e.g. in the health and care sectors and in the transport sector. This has been addressed not least through a more efficient IA agreement, and we are fortunately beginning to see results. Sick leave has fallen significantly. It is also the case that some industries, for example: the cleaning industry and the restaurant industry are characterised by many unprofessional businesses and social dumping. I will come back to this immediately. Then it's the challenges of temporary employment agencies and renting. This is a topic for the next item on the agenda today, but I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that the government has promoted a solid package to ensure that rentals are treated in a good way, and not least that they are treated in the same way as other workers. This is a good example of the government's willingness to work for good employment, not least in sectors where the needs are greater than others. The government has been working on social dumping since the government change in 2005. We have promoted and implemented two action plans against social dumping. A number of measures have been promoted, adopted and implemented with a good impact – according to the evaluation of the Fafo. At the same time, social dumping has shown that poor working conditions are not the only experiences of migrant workers. In parts of Norwegian working life, we see an alarming development, and the transmission effect of the large parts of working life where there are particularly serious conditions is imminent and must be followed closely. First of all, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee stresses the importance of cooperation between the parties, the importance of strong organisations on both the employer and the employee sides, and the importance of interaction with the social partners in finding effective measures. This applies not least to the government's proposal to involve the parties more strongly in the work on decent conditions in some vulnerable sectors. We call it tripartite business programmes. There is a greater chance that we will be able to clean up with the parties than if the authorities are alone. Secondly, the government will strengthen its oversight. The government has strengthened the Labour Inspectorate's budget for several years in a row, and the supervision is doing a very good job in the work for good working conditions. However, public oversight alone is not enough – that is why the action plan against social dumping was necessary. Therefore, the proposals contained in the Communication on industrial cooperation and the need for group management and franchisors to assess the environmental impacts of enterprises downwards in their chains are necessary. That is why we need to continue partly controversial arrangements such as solidarity, transparency and regional protection ombudsmen. And therefore, the government will also look at how we can better address serious occupational crime. In this communication, the government has indicated that today’s legislation is largely good enough to protect workers. One exception is serious occupational crime. The Labour Inspectorate is aware that repeated supervision and impositions do not always have sufficient effect. In order to remedy this situation, the Government has proposed to authorise the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate to impose an infringement fee. It will help to improve the effectiveness of law enforcement. In addition, with the support of this room, we will launch a broad and comprehensive investigation into the follow-up to serious breaches of the Public Service Act and the Working Environment Act. The need for increased penalties will be one of the themes. This is an important continuation of the government’s work on good working conditions and not least a follow-up to work against unprofessionalism and social dumping. I want to put a little extra emphasis on the part of the message that concerns the petroleum activity. It is reassuring to note that the HMS status of Norwegian petroleum activities is essentially good. Since the previous notification of petroleum, it is among other things: carried out important chemical improvement projects, while launching an improvement project to reduce exposure to noise. However, there are also some areas where the industry is challenged to reinforce its prevention efforts. In particular, there are gas leaks and well control incidents. It is gratifying to see that the figures for RNP 2011, presented in April of this year, show a significant improvement in both areas. At this point on the agenda, we are also discussing a proposal for a representative to set up a public body to pay minimum wages. I note that the entire committee, including the Progress Party, is sceptical about the statutory minimum wage, and that the Committee stresses the principle that wage fixing should be done as a result of negotiations between the parties. Only the Progress Party is intended to set down a public sample to investigate such an alternative. As I said, the government is concerned that there are still challenges in Norwegian working life, particularly related to the pay and working conditions of foreign workers. In this context, the debate on minimum wages and the publication of collective bargaining agreements is important. As stated in my reply to the Committee on 10 February 2012, I believe that the public service scheme is a better and more accurate system than a general minimum wage. The general public service, which is, in effect, a minimum professional pay scheme, is based on the responsibility of the parties for the formation of wages and salaries. As the evaluation of the government’s action against social dumping has shown, there is still reason to discuss aspects of our Norwegian public relations system in order to ensure that it is sufficiently effective. I have therefore taken the initiative of a national conference in the autumn on the results of the evaluation, where the public relations system becomes a central theme. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough examination of the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e735	The Council of State itself considers the importance of having a low level of absenteeism, and not least of having good measures when it comes to it. But there's a "sick" difference, I'll say, which research also shows: men get sick from the job, women get sick from the world. Does the Council want a change in this stable development, possibly with what measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e740	We don't know that women get sick at home. We know that women's sick leave is significantly higher than men's, but we don't know the whole reason. It's very complex, and there's a lot of crack in that research. What I don't think is medicine, at least, is to add up to a working life where women have to take their care obligations into their working life, because we say that it's so hard for women to combine the care of children with a normal working life, so we're going to add up to a tour and work system where you can do both. It is equality that is the most important means of ensuring that women can combine work with being at home and being good parents on the same lines as father.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e745	It was a pleasure for the Committee to examine the notification in detail. It was also a very thorough message, although perhaps a little bit thinner when it comes to concrete proposals, but that's often the case when you're in government. My question is: the Council of State stressed that the Labour Inspectorate had a very crucial role to play. For many years now, the right has strengthened the Labour Inspectorate with extra funds. That's now one thing. One of the challenges is that the Labour Inspectorate's task is to comply with the Working Environment Act, while some of them, let's call them the unprofessional actors in parts of Norwegian working life, have to be revealed by going into accounts and payments, preferably across borders. There we know that the Labour Inspectorate lacks both mandate and competence, and coordination between public bodies can be very difficult. My question is two-fold: will the Council consider reorganising the Labour Inspectorate, possibly giving them more powers? Point two: If not – how can coordination be improved today to reveal unprofessional actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e754	I am pleased that the representative is committed to strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, just as the government has done. I am also very pleased that the representative, through his proposal, realises that the Labour Inspectorate alone will not be able to rectify all the conditions that we see in parts of Norwegian working life. What I'm not so happy about is that the representative starts talking about a reorganisation of the Labour Inspectorate instead of looking at the incredibly important role of the trade union movement in this. It is in a way the employee organisations that are completely at the bottom of businesses. The proposals we are proposing include: in the anti-social dumping package, and for which the right-hand side is not voting, the trade union movement, which is closest to the problems, is, of course, an instrument. Then I have said that we should go through the entire attitude system in the case of Norwegian working life. Then, of course, the points the representative makes regarding how the Labour Inspectorate works will also be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e763	In the last two years, and especially in 2011, there has been a major debate on the violation of working time regulations, especially on the public sector. Let me just take three examples: We can take Moss municipality, with the rapporteur from the Labour Party, who was reported by the Labour Inspectorate for gross and long-term breach of the working time regulations, Lillehammer, run by the Workers' Party, who was reported for 7 006 violations of the Work Environment Act, and Trondheim, run by the Workers' Party, which was reported for 26 100 violations. In addition, there is a significant increase in reports also in the hospital sector, where some doctors and employees say that it has become so serious now that you choose to quit your job. Does the Council of State think that we see a picture of a brutalising working life in the public sector, especially in the care sector, or is it evidence that the provisions of the law have expired and that more flexibility is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e772	Any breach of the Working Environment Act is unacceptable, whether it concerns Right Municipalities or Labour Party municipalities – just so we agree on it. If we're going to discuss these things, we have to do it properly. Most of these breaches we're talking about have not been a breach of the Working Environment Act, they've been a breach of collective agreements. This applies in general, for example: these breaches which were advanced in Trondheim. That's a big difference. It's about the work environment law giving room to these things, but the law's framework has not been used in a good way. I'm going to be the first to say that we might need to be better informed about how the law should be applied, but I believe that if you had used the law, most of these breaches would not happen. The breaches that really were under the Working Environment Act, I believe that the representative – if he had gone into them, as I have done – would also agree with are so serious that no one would want to change the Working Environment Act so that they had been legalised. This is much more complicated than it is manufactured as. These breaches are essentially not on the law, but on the collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e784	I think we can agree that changing the work environment law just because of a break is not a good way to go. That is where I fully agree with the Council of State. Then I would like to say that I actually perceive the Council of State – not necessarily in this matter, but in other matters – as a pragmatic Council of State that is concerned with good solutions. One of the areas where there should be opening to change the Work Environment Act concerns alternative turns. Examples that we have become familiar with, and that have been up several times, are especially in the area of health or child protection, where one sees that users become more satisfied, there are fewer people to deal with, lower sick leave, more entire jobs, etc. There is a desire in the workplace, but the Council of State will not allow local arrangements to be made. Then we see through the payroll now that Councillor Rigmor Aasrud has tried to press such that she among other things. in the case of child-restraint institutions, it is desirable to agree through tariffs that consensus can be reached locally. Then I just have to admit that it seems that our policy, which is apparently very brutal, is quite ok for Rigmor Aasrud. What is the point — why should the Council of State fight such symbolic things?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e793	I believe that alternative tours are very important. That's why we have it to a very large extent, and we know that in 19 of 20 cases the central organizations are therefore granting exemptions to alternative tournaments. Working hours and tours are very difficult questions, because they are about pay and compensation, and leisure time. I know that today is a collective trade union movement, the employee organisations – all of them – against changing these things. I know that this basically works well today. That's why I'm pragmatic when I say: I don't want to worry about Norwegian working life when I see that this works. But I also see that for the right-hand side this has become a principle. There is no evidence that this does not work very well today. When you talk about local versus central, it's about taking from the central authority that they have today, which is important, and giving it locally. In fact, it is the case today that some organisations have to adopt it centrally in their statutes. Then there has to be a change in the law to where you have to take from the central authority that authority to decide who to decide. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e802	Today, we have talked about the importance of having regular employment, that without regular employment, it is difficult to obtain a loan – it is difficult to plan for the future to say. It is also important to avoid this brutal working life. But it's like the Council's own staff are regulated by the Civil Service Act. In that Act § 3, No. 2, it says that an official can be hired temporarily when needed for ‘a specified period of time or in order to carry out a specific task’. Does the Council of State think this is brutal? If not – can she explain to me why such a rule is brutal if it comes in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e809	I think we should be a little careful about using the word ‘brutal’ in a little ironic way, because Norwegian working life is basically very, very good. But I think we should be aware that there are some people working under conditions that we in this room never see. Some people work under extreme conditions also in Norway. I am not saying that Norwegian working life in general is brutal, but we are going to say that it is a picture that is very small in line with how we expect Norwegian working life to be. So my point is that it's impossible to compare the state and the private here. The rules on temporaryity and the protection of the position in the State have come through a long history, and there is a very strong protection of the temporaryity. I don't think those who want to equal the state and the private here want to transfer the whole state over to the private, but one can't take the one and not the other. What I experience is that the opposition says is that we should have the temporaryity provision, but we should not have the employment protection attached to that dismissal protection. [[President clubs]] Well, then you say yes... [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e816	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e819	Since the government change in 2005, 300,000 new jobs have been created in this country, two thirds of them in the private sector. During this year, employment is expected to grow by 1.6 pst, i.e. 40,000 more persons employed. Growth is continuing into next year, unless the turmoil in international financial markets is expected to reverse all forecasts. This is the characteristic and prerequisite for a good and dynamic working life. Despite a high cost level, despite good welfare schemes — or perhaps just because — we have a competitive business and a well-functioning, well-organised and very productive working life. Norwegian workers are almost 50 pst. more productive than average in EU countries. Recent research shows that good welfare systems are actually a competitive advantage and an important reason why we are doing so well compared to other countries in Europe. Good employment promotes good health, high productivity, learning conditions and skills of workers and is often a prerequisite for value creation and innovation in business. I believe that the willingness to change – not to say changeability – is an important reason for our success. Norwegian work life has been and is changing. The changes affect us all, not only at work, but also at leisure. New jobs are created, existing jobs change content, and some jobs disappear. The rate of circulation or lifetime of enterprises in the US service industry is five years on average. I don't have similar figures for this type of business in Norway, but I don't think we're very far behind. And 70 pst. of the jobs that in 20 years' time will provide work for today's six-year-olds have not yet been created. In addition, those who grow up today have to complain about changing jobs several times during their working life. Gradually, it is increasingly rare for workers to be given a gold watch for long and faithful service in one and the same company. The public sector does not stand back for the private sector in this field. Just look at the extensive transformations that have taken place in the municipal sector and in the large state budgets over the last few years! Then we – and become – more and more dependent on changing or renewing knowledge and skills in order to function in an increasingly demanding and knowledge-based working life. Much of this happens in enterprises, because it is in the company's own interest to develop its own workers, and because the build-up of knowledge and skills is crucial to the competitiveness of enterprises. Wise business managers tend to develop their own employees. Demand for skilled labour will only increase. The internationalisation, innovation and technological development measures further contribute to this, and the fact that we are growing older, who are increasingly setting higher quality requirements for public services, also calls for increased competences. The government correctly points to the need for continuous development of skills and learning in the labour market and believes that it is essential to facilitate this. I think this will turn out to be one of the major challenges in Norwegian working life in the next few years, and I am amazed that no more are concerned with continuing training. Here the school and its teachers are a useful exception, precisely because a changing school requires teachers with up-to-date knowledge and skills. Once the trade union movement has tried to raise this question in discussions with employers, they are usually met with a good understanding. Everyone acknowledges the need for a continuing training reform in Norwegian working life, but the conversation usually strands when it comes to the point where the bill is to be settled. Equally, the social partners recognise that we need a labour market reform that systematically develops the knowledge and competence of workers. High professional participation is a prerequisite for our well-being. It's not just oil, it's our joint effort to create the values of society, which provides the economic basis for the welfare systems. That is why we are concerned about an inclusive working life that also has room for those who cannot provide full labour. I think it is great that Asker's best bakery is a labour market company with disabled workers, and that we can maintain nearby shops in District Norway through labour market measures. And lovely Sørvangen Food Park on Konnerud outside the Drammen, which also provides disabled workers with work, is an important part of local business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e836	Let me first of all be allowed to commend the government for submitting a job message, and this is the first time we have been presented with such an employment message. I think that Stortinget is good at – I think we're all good at – discussing this. I hope that regular employment messages will be followed up in the years to come, because it is important to be able to discuss the challenges facing working life in the political environment as well. The Advance Party wants a safe and flexible working life with room for all – including the following: : We want a family-friendly working life. What should such a work life be based on? Well, it has to be based on flexibility and predictability, on new requirements for competence, which we have to embrace, on an inclusive working life with duties and opportunities for all and on a good work environment based on propriety and equivalency. We have had discussions so far in the debate on: Where are the borders going? Isn't that flexible enough? For whom it is flexible, you can ask questions about – and it is also asked. I registered that the representative from SV in the reply to the Right Torbjørn Røe Isaksen wondered: Where should the boundaries go, and what is the limit of the breaking working life? Let me then remind you that the provisions of the Working Environment Act are flexible for some people. In the organised companies that have a collective agreement and where they are organised, working hours actually have the possibility – if trusted representatives agree – to work up to 16 hours within 24 hours and a maximum of 54 hours per week. It's all right if there's a trust voter who approves it. Then it's not brutal. Then it's not a health or safety problem. Trustees are more competent than the Labour Inspectorate to make that decision, according to representatives of the Workers' Party. It's a rhetoric I can't quite understand, and it's a rhetoric I can't quite understand. I trust and believe that the Labour Inspectorate is able to care for the interests of all the workers. The Progress Party is engaged by all the workers, regardless of whether you are organised or not, regardless of whether you are employed in an enterprise that is organised or not. Let me also take some examples of why flexibility in today's work environment law may be necessary, including in terms of working time regulations. Let's take the immigrant Ali, who works at a gas station or in a kiosk every Sunday. He's a Muslim. But then he gets himself, for example. job in the municipality, and he stops at work. Steps go in. She's Norwegian and Christian, and she can't work every Sunday. Why are we going to have provisions in the Working Environment Act that determine when people are going to be able to take out that holiday? Isn't it enough to have an outer frame that decides that you should have that and so much freedom, and then it's up to the individual to be allowed to decide when to take out that leisure time? Or take, for example: a football commentator, when we now go into the EM in football – which probably many will be interested in in the time that comes. Øyvind Alsaker, an excellent football commentator, can comment on 52 matches a year on Saturdays. But if the trade unionists don't approve, he can't comment on three football matches three Sundays in a row. This is therefore contrary to the provisions of the Working Environment Act. These are just simple examples showing the need to make changes, to find more flexible solutions. Or when we at the same time see in a family-friendly perspective that almost half of the kids growing up today are growing up with sign parents. I know – without speaking for either myself or my ill mother – that there are many families struggling to get the time to jump, for example. where one works on a tour in the North Sea, and where the other works in the Health Service. How are we going to make association with the kids work? How are we going to get the flexibility to go up, and how are we going to get the best quality time possible? I believe that it would be natural to sit down and look at how we will get to this, so that it becomes more family friendly for each family, for each employee and for the working life. I think it is a pity that the government has not addressed these challenges in the employment message. I would have liked to have been able to go closer and look at the importance of having a transition from an industrial society to a service society and its consequences. The expectations of younger workers for career and flexibility in working life have not been discussed in the communication, I record. The development towards more seniors and older people in the labour market will also, at the discretion of the Progress Party, challenge the organisation and regulation of working life. There are moments that you have not taken into account in your job message, and I would like to have included them. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is important for the first time to set down a working time commission that can see the whole picture, to provide more flexibility, because at my discretion we face three important challenges. We need more labour in Norway in the future. How are we going to get into a working life that triggers more labour, both in the short term and in the long term? How are we to ensure that we increase the proportion of full-time jobs and ensure that the needs of businesses are met, while at the same time better adapting working hours to the individual family and employee? That is the main reason why the Progress Party wants a working time commission. We are not saying that we are going to change the rules that are in the outer boundaries of the Work Environment Act today, because I believe that the external boundaries of the Work Environment Act and the framework of good safety and protection limits to be maintained. But how are we going to be able to get more flexibility in this area? Former State Council of the Workers' Party, Jørgen Kosmo, was well-informed – well-informed on that work. I think it's a shame that it's stopped. I should have liked the sitting government to have taken hold of what Kosmo was doing. But at least we are promoting the proposal and we think it makes sense to look at it. In conclusion, I would like – even if time goes by – to say a little about our representative proposal relating to minimum wages. I recognise that it may be challenging to introduce a minimum wage, in terms of both tripartite cooperation, wage formation and who will decide. I recognize that there may be challenges associated with it. But that is why we also believe that it should be investigated whether it can be an alternative to combating social dumping. When the Workers' Party representative Tritenbergstien started today saying that the right-hand side of the fight against social dumping was not willing to think again, I would say that we are willing to look at new instruments. Minimum wages are an example of what can be a useful tool, so at least you should figure it out to see if it can be good to prevent more social dumping and create more decent working conditions for all employees, including foreign employees. The Progress Party is clearly of the opinion that foreign workers should be paid decent wages and working conditions in line with Norwegian workers. Perhaps – as I said – minimum wages can be something that can prevent social dumping. I've been out in a lot of jobs, talking to trustees, talking to employees and talking to management, also talking to hired workers, who tell me that it's hard to deal with the many different collective agreements today. It's a youth of collective agreements that we're not quite able to keep track of, and it's hard to control, reports trust-elected back to me, in the fight against social dumping. The trusted people say that it might have been easier if we had a minimum wage standard to assume and equal for the entire working life. That's why I think it's a shame you don't choose to figure it out. In conclusion, I am recording the exchange of lines with the Council of State that there were not such serious breaches that had occurred in Trondheim. However, according to the March 2012 report of the Control Committee, 49 p.m. is due to breaches of the working time regulations for employees in posts between 20 and 40 p.m. I see the council is shaking her head, but she can get a copy of the investigation and the protocol from the Trondheim Control Committee. Then she'll see that that's the case. But I'm recording that the Council of State is violating the report of the Trondheim Control Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e868	Norwegian working life is, as most people have stressed here today, essentially good for those inside. Unfortunately, there are still a lot of people out there. And the proportion is increasing. Although we are going to spend the day – and do it – discussing the conditions for those who are inside, I would also like to know about the large group that is out of work for different reasons. The government takes every opportunity to boast of the number of jobs created in Norway during their period of government. Hundreds of thousands of new jobs are being discussed, most of which have been created in private. Well, everything has its explanation, and the growth of employment has only kept pace with population growth, and hardly so. The proportion of people employed here in the country has stood on the spot resting or falling, a little depending on how to measure it. For example, the proportion of persons employed between 15 and 66 years of age has fallen from 74,5 pst. in 2005 to 73,9 pst. in 2011. And not enough: the growth in the number of private sector employees only increased in the first few years after this government had taken over an economy from us that went so far in 2005. It is tempting here again to quote Arne Strand in the Newspaper, which called this ‘covered table’. Since 2008, the growth in employment we have seen has only occurred in the public sector, while it has fallen in all other sectors. These aren't numbers I've come up with myself, this is taken straight from the government's own national budget. I would like to stress that employment in Norway is still high, and the proportion of people employed is still among the highest in the world, and that is very much appreciated. But this government likes to present it as if they have an outstanding track record in job creation, and that is directly misleading. Because even though employment is high, those who are out of work, that is, many, and there are more. Fortunately, the situation is not as dramatic as it could have been: the share of health-related schemes had a steady and high increase over the 1980s and 1990s, until the trend was broken during the Bondevik II government. However, although the government often claims otherwise, the proportion of annual work lost due to health-related benefits has increased in their time of government. The background to confusion is that schemes are changing and becoming difficult to compare over time and that some schemes are graduated. Fortunately, Nav has just produced a report that summarises the arrangements and figures in an exemplary way. And the speech of the figures is clear: the proportion of annual work lost as a result of health-related benefits has increased since 2005. I stress that this is the proportion of this – controlled for population growth, gradation of performance and all sorts of regulatory changes that we politicians are making. It is a paradox that this is happening in the world's richest country, where we see an ever-increasing improvement in public health, an increase in life expectancy and an ever-higher level of education. The increase among young people is particularly worrying. In the group between 20 and 24 years of age, the proportion of annual work lost increased by over 14 p.p., and we have seen from the latest figures that the take-off of disability benefits is higher than ever. It is a deep tragedy for the young people involved to fall out of the labour market in that way. They want a completely different life economically and socially — a life that statistically can also be considerably shorter — than what their friends at work have. There are few things that are more important in our field than helping this group into a professional career. This must be taken into account by the Council of State and not hide behind misleading figures and that ‘more people are at work than ever.’ Because that should just be missing now that we've become 5 million people. What may hurt me the most is the decline in the job opportunities of people with disabilities. The proportion of people with disabilities in work has fallen from 44.3 pst. when our government went off, to 42.3 pst. now – a decrease of 4,5 pst. Just a few days ago, I had a visit by a group of young people with disabilities who showed a film and told me what it's like to be young and disabled in today's society. It was a strong experience. We heard and saw, among other things, a story about a severely disabled young man who had been offered a job after countless attempts, but after many months of in vain trying to get the facilities he needed from Nav, he had to see that the employer had to find another one. The young man was now disapproving, and was not able to contribute to either society or the treasury in the way he wanted so much. There's just such stories that we have to avoid for a while. That's exactly why the Right has wanted to invest heavily in work training in our alternative budget. That's why we want to make the system of work and education trips and the functional assistance system permanent. That is why, in our alternative revised national budget, we have invested more than the government in secretarial aid for the blind and interpreters for the deaf. That's why we want a green card scheme that makes the facilitation guarantee much more real than today. It is therefore right that the NHO applauds when they start their 'Calls in the water' project to get more people into the world of work. It is therefore right-wing that the State and the public should go ahead of including those who have any additional needs. As I said, today we are dealing with a big message that describes a working life that is basically very good for those inside. But I want to remember that's not enough. The workplace must also be as open as possible to those who are outside at all times. The threshold must be low, and the measures we implement for this group must be targeted, accurate and effective. We must not forget that in this debate today. This is not necessarily easy, and this appeal must also be sent to the industry itself. We also talked about that in this room in an interpellation debate yesterday. I would also like to comment briefly on the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted to pay minimum wages as an instrument in the fight against social dumping. Social dumping is a threat to a safe and good working life, and we will discuss it in more detail in this Chamber later today. The right is – and has always been – willing to look with an open mind at all kinds of proposals aimed at combating dumping in the labour market. Most of the proposals we have then also voted in favour of, as my colleague Mr Isaksen mentioned earlier today. We also have an open mind on this proposal from the Progress Party, but we have come to the conclusion that the means of minimum pay is not enough, in any case, for us to support in today's situation, and we therefore do not see the need for such an investigation as the proposers ask. We feel that it goes against the Right spinal cord reflex to have a politically set salary. Wages and salaries we believe are something which should essentially be agreed between free parties in a free labour market and not be determined in the Stortinget. The right will therefore vote against this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e921	Today is a good day. It's a good day for the workers. The Labour Party has always been involved in the workline and the workforce. Together with the trade union movement, we have created a working life that is among the best in the world. Facilitate the balance between the local, national and global labour market, between the free market and political governance, between the needs of citizens for work that suits them, a working life that combines the challenges of having a civil life with family, friends and leisure while at the same time having a job that gives a living, is important for the Workers' Party. Therefore, labour policy is not alone. It is linked to family policy, economic policy and not least to distribution policy. The government's policy balances these points. The different parties may have the same objective in many areas, but the instruments are very different. Both the leaders of the Right Party and the Advance Party have given guarantees that if they come to power, we will have a different society. We distinguish layers of essentials that are essential to society's ability to include more, to make working life safe and predictable for everyone and to create a working life where we can work longer. For the Workers' Party, work and business are not just a question of the market and the level of taxation. There is a question of the prerequisite of the market for welfare production. Therefore, the way this government governs Norway is a success. Business is given opportunities to create, and the community can distribute values that benefit everyone. Policies ensure workers' safety, predictable rules, and work is safe. Co-determination and participation are the way to go. I was at a meeting with business leaders in the energy, process and technology industries in the fall, and as you know, the very vulnerable industries we're talking about are. One of the speakers said that there were two things that had made Norway world leaders: small pay differences and high skills of all workers. This is a result of instruments fought in a common struggle between the labour movement and the trade movement: participation, influence, participation and ownership. It's good values to build a society and a working life on. The right and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen construct their own counter-argument in today's debate, that the left is talking about a 'brutalized' working life. Yes, when the position doesn't give them good arguments, and when all the arrows show that it's getting better and better, it might be necessary to create their own resistance rhetoric. But it used to be worse. Then the talk of brutalization was much clearer. Because it is true that not only parts of the left side, but almost the whole, and at least all of the trade movement, were behind the experience of working life being brutalized after four years with the Bondevik II government. Fortunately, we won the election and got to reverse what this government had introduced by anti-labour policy. So what makes us different today? Well, the right is trying to make itself the soft work party, and they're talking about mild decorations in the Working Environment Act. Mild? These instruments are not mild. We disagree on significant instruments – working time regulations, temporary posts, fiscal policy and economic policy in general. This would harm workers, the role of supervision and the right to have sanctioned funds, tax deductions from the trade union quota and, in particular, the most effective measures: transparency and solidarity. That's where we separate layers. The right to full time is important for the Workers' Party, and it is one thing that the Vest-Agder Workers' Party has been working on for many years. That's also where we separate layers. The right and the right party argue that it is important to have temporary and small posts, because it is good for more people in the grey zone in terms of working life. But even from that point of view, they don't find that they can guarantee their priority. Then I have some comments to the Right Representative Sylvi Graham, who pointed to two aspects in his previous post. One was that the employment rate is falling. So it's going to go up. So it was about that there was no drop in the number of people who are out of work. Actually, it is. Studies are available to show this. The recommendation brings together the Committee in order to intensify its work on violence and threats at work. It's very good, and it's an important measure. This is about challenges that have led to sick messages and long-term absence from work. It is good that the Committee shares this view, and it is very good that the government has put forward proposals to improve and intensify work in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e947	Report. Article 29 also deals with the petroleum sector, which has a very strong and important role in Norway. In the 2005 Soria Moria Declaration, the government states that the HMS level for the petroleum sector should be world-leading, nothing less. This is a sector that gets a lot of attention from political leadership. We have responsibility for health, the environment and safety, which was transferred to the Petroleum Control Agency in 2004. Supervision shall follow on from a high level of health, environment, safety and preparedness by actors in order to contribute to the creation of maximum values for society. They shall work according to the principles of participation and cooperation. Int. 333 S writes the Progress Party that they ‘considers that there is a potential for efficiency improvement in a pooling of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate, so as to bring together professional competence in one place’. The government parties disagree with this. We believe that it is important that the petroleum sector should be monitored separately in order to ensure strong professional competence in the specific HMS areas of industry. Our functional code imposes very high standards of competence on those in charge of oversight. I would like briefly to point out that in this round it has been assessed and found that the EU Regulation on the petroleum sector is not EEA-relevant for Norway and refers to the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on relevant EEA issues on 8 May 2012. That Regulation came as a result of the European Commission’s follow-up to the accident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010. The organisation of supervisory tasks and close cooperation with actors ensure continuous improvement and learning across organisations. In the Communication, the Government announces a broad review of its supervisory strategy and the HMS Code in the petroleum sector. It will ensure a thorough review, and it is a comprehensive measure. Several near-misses have been recorded, and we are experiencing a strong change in the image of the actor within the industry. We have extended the lifetime and increased the use of new technologies. Overall, there is good safety in the Norwegian petroleum sector, but several near-events and serious accidents, both internationally and nationally, show the need for the review we have notified. It will focus in particular on strategies, priorities and the use of supervisory tools in that work. We focus on the design of legislation to ensure that it remains functional, and we will consider other possible requirements for regulation in other areas. A new regulatory framework for HMS in the petroleum sector for offshore and specified land installations was put in place in January 2011. The functional regulatory framework sets very high standards for achievement, without specifying what the concrete solutions should be. It sets requirements for industry and supervision. This is also based on tripartite cooperation, which is essential for achieving the goal of world leadership in the HMS. Examples of successful interaction are the hydrocarbon project, the Safety Forum, the Regulatory Forum and the risk level in the Norwegian petroleum sector, which is a separate measurement. It is therefore important that the Petroleum Authority and the authorities ensure that future actors understand the expectations of the organisation and active participation in the cooperation of the Parties. As I said, farms are part of this surveillance area. My home municipality has the Mongstad refinery as a large regional and national actor, where, in addition to the safety of the employees of the plant, that is, the individual, they also deal with local, regional and global challenges. A large part of the investment costs incurred by the refinery are investments in different HMS actions. These do not necessarily return directly to the bottom line in terms of profits, but limit environmental challenges globally. The facility is large, complex and has many integrated processes, including offshore. For example, I want to do this. point out that the power cable built on Mongstad and deployed to the new Gjøa platform contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions by 200000 tonnes per year. It's an additional action that's re-shown on a global scale. These measures also include the VOC recycling plant, the CHP plant, the NOx cleaning plant and the sulphur cleaning plant. They have spent hundreds of millions in the last few years in extra effort to renew and ensure that risks are reduced locally. They have a low level of sick leave and an active attitude towards IA work. Finally, I would like to point out that the HMS results are fresh. That is why I would recommend the motto of the speeding movement as a motto for this industry: always prepared, always prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e994	It is a joyous day when we can provide such a state report on Norwegian working life. The starting point is really from when the trade unions started the Workers' Party in 1887, with a program of just four points. Three of these points concerned the right to strike, the general right to vote and the fight for the normal working day. The last one was a requirement we got through for in 1919, after they had gone on demonstration trains all over the world to ensure that you could combine just work and family. On the posters it said: eight hours of work, eight hours of free time, eight hours of rest. This is essentially a matter of having a job that you can live with. Ensuring fair income development is a core task of the red-green government. The Committee has also examined a proposal for a representative of the Progress Party, Document 8:6 S for 2011-2012, to introduce a national minimum wage. The great majority think it's a bad idea. We fear – in the light of the experience we have, among other things. from Europe and the United States – that this could be a permanent low wage cap. Today, wage developments, including for the unorganised in the labour market, are largely geared towards the collective bargaining agreements that have been waged by the organisers. We fear that the development of the introduction of national minimum wages could lead to a considerable decline in the income development of some of the most vulnerable in the labour market. In any case, we cannot create a system in which workers have to rely on a growing choice every four years in order to improve pay and working conditions. The response of the red-green government is a better generalisation. It has been extremely important to reduce and combat social dumping. This ensures that the social partners are actually responsible for the formation of wages and salaries, because we cannot have a minimum wage that is totally independent of industries. It must also take account of the individual industry and its ability to generate income. The right-hand side has voted in favour of some of these measures, which are a collective package to combat social dumping, but at the same time have voted down the most effective, such as solidarity and transparency for trustees. The public education system, the system we have today to make collective agreements, is not perfect. There are also major challenges with the huge labour migration to Norway, which challenges our pay model. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State is taking this on board and announces that we are going to have a national conference for the autumn. In particular, it will be important to look at the documentation requirement that lies there in order to have tariff agreements published today. I think there is something special about how the Right today has tried to decorate its own story and take ownership of the employment message that has now been submitted. At least you can expect the representatives to be telling the truth. In a reply exchange here earlier between the representatives Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Anette Trettebergstuen, the representative Røe Isaksen said that the Right had voted to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions in public acquisitions. The person who goes back to the bulking protocol sees that the Right was with the Left and the Advance Party that you would rather have a natural competition for pay, so you have not been involved in making any contributions to ensure respect for honest, hard work. We have created 300,000 new jobs since we took over in 2005, but as important as the number of new jobs we create is the quality of these jobs. In fact, the Working Environment Act is a dynamic and modern law. From the red-green side, we can assure citizens that it will not be a standstill, but a continuous development for the benefit of Norwegian working life and the main resource we have, namely Norwegian workers. Two brief points that I think are important, and which also signal that it is important to grasp, are involuntary part-time, putting in place a multi-time paragraph that is effective by ensuring that you get the job percentage you are actually working, and that we ensure more participation in the working life of those who are currently covered by franchises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1015	I want to focus on the part of the message that concerns the petroleum activity. Government and collapse have previously said that the petroleum sector should be a precursor industry in health, environment and safety. The industry has been in the forefront of ensuring safety and the working environment and has been a model for land-based activities. The reputation and reputation of companies has always been an important factor in the assessment of future activity. We must have a pre-prize as a basic position – as well as a commitment to quality and knowledge. In time, it is very important to focus on health, the environment and safety. Then we have increased activities, many more projects, and it can report time pressure and focus on short-term profits. In times of decline, we will have reduced exposure, pressure on costs and safety margins, and there may be a lack of motivation. In any case, we must always focus on continuous improvement. No activity in the petroleum industry can be carried out without risk, but the risk can be controlled. The aim is to avoid fatal accidents in the petroleum industry. In 2011, there were no fatal accidents. International cooperation in the long term could contribute to good safety performance. This is an international industry of a nature, and the mechanisms are that, through the exchange of experience and discussion of legislative requirements and methods of exercise of powers, the authorities of different countries appear to be as coordinated as possible with industry. As the Council pointed out in its statement, it is among other things. carried out an important chemical improvement project, while launching an improvement project to reduce exposure to noise. However, there are also some areas where the industry is challenged to reinforce its prevention efforts. This is particularly true in relation to gas leaks and well control incidents. The number here shows a significant improvement, and that this is going in the right direction. The organisation of supervisory tasks and close cooperation with stakeholders are very important to ensure that work on health, environment and safety provides continuous improvement, learning and development. The Government announces in the Communication a broad review of the supervisory strategy and the sector HMS legislation. Nearer accidents, both internationally and nationally, show that the petroleum industry has a high risk potential. If we look back, for example: in the ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident and several major accidents that have occurred, this is an industry in which there are extremely serious consequences if something happens. Here one has also seen that there have been a series of smaller factors that have finally triggered the major disasters. Knowledge of major accidents and major-accident events shows that the causes are limited by technology. This is often primarily due to the ability of companies and people to manage the risks facing them. It is therefore extremely important that the management of companies have knowledge of risks, can identify them, handle them and take them further throughout the organisation. The safety level in Norwegian petroleum activities is initially high. Then I don't see that the level is maintained by itself once one has reached it. When accidents happen, I think it's important to investigate the events. I think that research is a good tool to gain knowledge about what triggers serious events, and to draw attention to triggering mechanisms – both technological, organisational and human. Studying provides learning, and it could help that similar events don't happen again. Given the special position of the oil and gas industry in our society, it is important here with full transparency, and systematized, good oversight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1038	From a number of speakers, it has been emphasised that I agree with: this is an important and historic day, mainly because our government and the Council of State have presented to the Stortinget a message that the government and the red-green majority really take – let me call it – a social state responsibility for the organisation of employment in Norway. It is of great importance to many people, it is of great importance to Norway as a country, and it is of great importance to business value-making. So it's historic for another reason. I wonder when I am listening to the opposition's posts, where they now praise the Norwegian Labour Organization. The question that Stortinget should be asking is, if one has finally arrived in Norwegian history, that the right parties in particular now accept the need for tripartite cooperation and the state's commitment and responsibility for working life. I would like to hear that representatives from the right-wing parties came up here during the debate and really said this, and thus acknowledged that the political philosophy that they have used for many, many years in this regard has been a crazy analysis, that they have been wrong, and that it is necessary that they move on a different track. I would like that recognition to come, so that it could be emphasized once and for all that this really became a historic day, in the sense that the Norwegian Storking actually ended up around the line that the Workers' Party has exposed since World War II. I don't hear that, and I'm afraid there's a subtitle here that has a different purpose. It remains to be seen whether the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, before we end this day, address the challenge I have now presented here in the Stortinget. But if it's a subtitle, of course, it's a big challenge. The representative, Røe Isaksen, began his speech today by referring to what he calls philosophical thinking in the field of employment policy. He tried through his post to bury something that is a very important distinction in all modern societies, namely the contrast between labour and capital. It is a fundamental contradiction, in the sense that there are ordinary people – good colleagues – in Norway and across Europe who need strong environmental legislation to protect their ability to use their workforce in a good way. That is what this is all about, and this is what today's debate is about. If they had not had democracy and the state to help themselves, it is not – as Red Isaac tries to say – that this would have gone well anyway. There's no historical example of this going well anyway. It only works if the policy is strong enough to protect the rights of workers in such a way that they can maintain their place in society. This is what today's debate is about: how should this be carried on? The number does not extend, but in this context I would say that I hear – especially from the representative Skei Grande, who is now not present – a tone in relation to the trade movement that makes me know it in the body. For she tries to talk away the arguments for this, and they're going to reduce the possibility of deducting the union quota. Why in the world is the opposition doing that? There is only one answer: it is an attempt — one of many — to reduce the position of the trade union movement in society, not employers. They stay standing without a response, of course, and this is the subtitle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1051	Report. St. 29 tells the story of a nation that has created a safe and good working life for almost everyone, with tidy working conditions and strong commitment from the parties to the IA agreement. We see obvious effects. It's better to track in the world of work. But there are still challenges and tasks left that have not been solved, so it is more than enough for us – and for the future – politicians to work with. The employment rate — recorded by other representatives here today — has remained stable for people with disabilities for a long time, but stablely low. The last number from the SSB is 42.3 pst. That means that over half of them are out of work. To change this, we have implemented several measures. In the context of the 2012 budget — in the final round of the budget — a job strategy for people with disabilities was adopted. Relatively much has historically been focused on the individual and measures aimed at the individual. Both tools, accessibility and empowerment are important elements to succeed in this work. We now clearly see the impact of the IA agreement, and we believe that the background for it is tripartite cooperation. Tripartite cooperation requires active ownership and contributions from all parties. My feeling is that so far too much has been directed at the individual and the authorities, with different measures for the employer and the employee. But the ownership, where was it? Now I'm really ready to praise the employer's side, and it's really fun to do that. We notice a change in commitment, in ownership and in attention. In the past, the debate has been characterised by demands for action, a description of the challenge and the difficulties, but now it is getting up and giving a clear message and feedback. I refer to the project that the NHO Service has now started, called Ringer in the water, a project that pays attention to the fact that as many as possible of NHO’s 21,000 member companies are going to engage in refurbishment work. Holdings shall be more likely than before to meet their labour needs through recruitment from reintroduction holdings. This is a quote from the brochure prepared by the NHO for the project. They write: ‘15.000 Norwegians are on the ‘main journey of their lives’ in order to get a job according to the practice of reintroduction companies. 4,000 of them have reached the target and got a permanent job in 2011. The aim of ‘Calls in the water’ is to multiply the number of fixed jobs. We want to see a business life with the NHO at the head that will and can take on even more people." They have begun to change their attitudes. That's why I think the project and the design of this might be a new way to go. Ownership must be in the hands of those to receive. It can't just be with the authorities and individuals. It's good to be able to deliver the brilliance. It's a pleasure to be able to do that. But I can promise you that we will follow very closely that this project actually delivers the results we think it should have. Then I'm going to get a little bit of a depression about the debate earlier today. It has been suggested that we allow temporaryity for people with disabilities in the context of the use of wage subsidies as an opportunity for those on redundancy pay, the AAP. I'm just challenging the opposition to be on a small line of thought: Work clearance money is we all agree to be a temporary benefit – the way to something else. All the measures we take during that period are of a temporary nature. If we are to expand this with several alternative measures in that period, do we agree that they must also be temporary and that there is no extension of the use of temporaryity for this group in general? I think that actually is very important that this hall agrees, because there are two very different ways to think about it. So I'm going to refer to a thing that spins a little bit in the media today. “Norwegian Talents” on TV 2 are a lot of people watching. Morten Lüthche uses a respirator and sits in an electric wheelchair – it is relatively heavy in fact, it weighs almost 200 kg. But he's learned how to talk and sing -- it's been a hobby Morten's whole life. It works fine with a respirator. He comes through the first round of the program and is invited to the next round for recording. Then he comes and gets the answer from «Norwegian Talents» that unfortunately, Christiania Theatre is not available, it is not possible to get the wheelchair in, so he cannot participate further. What I'm responding to today is the answer from Chistiania Theatre. To put it that way: I understand the challenges of the Chstiania Theatre and TV 2 – but still. They say, this is a ‘protective old building available’ – and we accept that. And further, ‘This has not been a problem before.’ Well, then I would say to all the country’s employers and all those who have construction that is inaccessible: a wheelchair user comes to a building near you.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1078	As has been said earlier here today by many, it is desirable for most people to have a regular job. A foreseeable life situation with a permanent job and income provides security and also better opportunities to obtain housing, loans, etc. It is also important for enterprises to have permanent employees in order to ensure competence and to be competitive. So there is a broad consensus that all those who really want it, perhaps as soon as possible, should get regular work, even though we also need very much temporary staff in many businesses. Now it's not like all companies have the same predictability in relation to their volume of contracts. There it seems that the government has very little understanding. We live in a country with very varying temperatures and seasons and very little predictability in relation to when different tasks can be done. I have been contacted by companies that are quite doubtful when they have to leave their employees, and they are told that they do not receive a daily allowance – they have to be cancelled. There are a lot of types of enterprises in this country that are involved in construction, construction and hotel activities. There have been drug agencies that have lost their jobs, etc. There are private actors who do not have the same predictability as the public, who actually have to cancel their employees and re-employ them – and perhaps repeat this several times because those who are employed are going to get paid their daily allowances. That's why the Progress Party brings up a proposal asking the government to submit to the Stortinget a review of the rules on the leave set against the day-to-day payment. It cannot be that some of our community's employees carry out important societal tasks, on which we all depend – it's construction, it's service activities, etc. – which do not have the same predictability as e.g. What you have in public, it says, they lose their competence. It is not easy to submit a tender to a new job contest when you do not know if you have employees who can set up and do the job, because they have to apply for a new job again. This is a system that is not good. In fact, workers must also be able to obtain predictability. They must at least be able to know if they are employed in a job where they are entitled to a daily allowance during the period of leave. They do not know that today, and neither do the employers. That's something they get to know only when they're in that situation, and come to Nav. I have addressed this with the Council of State in the past, without it acting as if the Council of State has any interest in looking at the problem. Nav calls it seasonal work. But then we have the jam, with the seasons we have, many types of seasonal work in this country. The work must be carried out, and in the interests of both the predictability and competitiveness of the enterprises and employees employed in these professions, the Progress Party asks that these rules be taken into account. We hope to receive support for that today. As many have said, too many people are out of work. The measures taken today are not good enough. We get numerous enquiries, at the latest I got one last night, from people who are to be helped by Nav, and who get so confused about the system that they almost become suicidal. This is not exaggeration. They come in and think they will be helped to get a job – they have an injury and a plague that makes them have very limited opportunities to take jobs. Then I mean the first thing they're going to meet is work clearance – not a jobseeker's course. A 61-year-old person was put on a job search course with young people who had not gone to work, to tell me about – I was saying – their lives. This makes people depressed. The measures taken must now be organised so that people can get to work quickly or have a quick explanation of whether they should be able to work at all. If they are not able to work, if they are too sick to work, they have nothing to do on a jobseeker's course. It may not be where you put older people, either, as there are still more of them who are not getting the opportunity to get to work. I think the government is very good at talking to strengthen trade unions, it's very good at ensuring the rights of public jobs, but it's not very close to seeing what predictability and opportunity our business needs, or what employees are not employed in public, or who don't have union membership, should be entitled to in a society. It is not the government that has created all the new jobs. Instead, they ask how many jobs the government has lost in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1099	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1102	It is important and affordable that the government has submitted a communication to the Stortinget inviting the discussion of fundamental issues and challenges in the Norwegian labour market. There is a clear emphasis in the message on health, environmental and safety work. As you can see, this message is also an important health policy issue. We know that health is important in order to be able to work. But the work is also important for health. Social inclusion is an important factor in good health. I want to focus attention on a theme that I think is not very focused on in the message and in the comments from the committee, namely the need to strengthen drug prevention in the workplace. First of all, this alcohol applies. Recent research shows that alcohol use has largely become a part of the labour market. We drank more and more in greysoon between work and leisure. It affects job performance and leads to a high level of sick leave. Research suggests that the increase in alcohol consumption among adults that we have seen over the last few years is well under way towards precisely grey areas in the labour market. The 2012 study by the Health Directorate on the patterns of drinking in Norwegian work shows a trend that we need to take seriously. Nearly every four professionals drink alcohol to relax after stress at work. More than every third economically active person drank alcohol one to two days a week. Top leaders drank even more often: nearly half of the top leaders drank alcohol one to two days a week, and every five drinks three to five days a week. This shows the need to reflect on the new culture of alcohol that is largely related to work. It is worrying that drug problems in the workplace can develop over many years without intervention. Both colleagues and leaders cover and camouflage. Skills need to be increased among labour market leaders and the addition of alcohol use, harmful use and dependence. Methods for this must be implemented in the Norwegian labour market. Such efforts will pay off. The annual cost of working life and society resulting from alcohol consumption added to it has been estimated at as much as 11–12 billion. kr. Although high-risk consumers, the cost of working life is largely related to moderate consumers because they are many more. Still, we don't talk much about it. Alcohol consumption directly affects the absence of sick people. Studies estimate that an increase in alcohol consumption of one litre per capita leads to 113 pst. increase in absenteeism among men and that of 30 pst. of short-term absence and 15 pst. long-term absenteeism may be alcohol-related. It shows some of the extent and consequences of alcohol consumption for sick leave and Norwegian working life. The Health Directorate has launched the White Week campaign in our year. The goal is to get the North to think through their own alcohol habits. I would like to pay tribute to Minister of Labour Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm, who himself participated and in that context appeared in the media and asked everyone to assess the damage that their own alcohol use is doing to their work and to their fellow human beings. It was an important signal from the Minister of Labour in a sub-communicated and tabulated area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1121	Modern business and work needs more flexibility, and it will open up to the Right in a moderate form. I believe that, to a substantial extent, working life is not as described by the case-rapporteur in a reply with the representative Røe Isaksen, namely that the right's desire for more flexibility is based on the wish that employers be able to push more uncomfortable working hours over to the employees. It is incredibly long since it was particularly possible to squeeze some incompetence on modern workers. One should have had a very distant relationship with Norwegian working life to believe that that is how it works. It is simply no longer ‘de’ and ‘us’ in Norwegian working life. It's "we", and it has to be. It is the great ‘we’ that, despite an excessive cost level, we can continue to be productive and competitive in an international market. It is that society, that cooperation, that is based on a great deal of flexibility between workers and employers. It is found in many other things that are not related to the Labour Environment Act — in the common objective of each enterprise: increasing competitiveness, increasing profitability and safer jobs. It therefore surprises me that, in relation to the common political desire for increased employment, increased competitiveness and increased and improved foundations for the welfare society, it is worth constructing the kind of contradictions that governments are currently doing here. Flexibility is sought by modern workers. While Europe is faltering in its economic ties, we have to maintain competitiveness. I think the government parties should sit down and think a little about what mistrust they actually show workers and employers by their almost militant attitude in rejecting any kind of flexibility that could help to increase this competitiveness. Let me just finally give a visit to the representative Kolberg, who is talking about the right not accepting the tripartite cooperation. So let's do that. We did that under the Bondevik II government, and we have done that under previous governments. The tripartite cooperation consists in my opinion of the State, on the one hand, and the employees and employers, on the other. But in a balanced situation, all shall participate in the same way, and no one shall have an additional entrance ticket to enter the enclosed spaces, as it currently works. At least that's what you hear from employee organisations, especially those who stand a little further away from the government than what the most prominent do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1136	I have to start by saying that it's very interesting when you have a couple of posts from other committees, both a good post from the Center Party and now a post from the Right in the Business Committee. It shows two important aspects — health and alcohol, which the representative Toppe brings in, and the need to create jobs to secure Norwegian competitiveness and because one needs to create jobs in order to be able to include more people at all. But I took the floor because in the debate it quickly becomes a black-and-white image, where what the red-greens have becomes pink, and if opposition policy is adopted, it will lead to ‘bad things’. I need this to contradict. In the Christian People's Party, we are engaged in a welfare society. We want to build society from below and start with the individual human being. We are committed to strengthening the communities, and then there is an understanding of the family, it is the volunteers and it is the state – that is, the public and the municipalities. However, when talking about the ‘Norwegian model’, it is quite right that tripartite cooperation is crucial, but there are also some other aspects here that are important. The Christian People's Party has always been involved in tripartite cooperation, because it helps secure the good jobs, because the employees have important input. It is also important to listen to employers because you need to create jobs. So there's two points that I'm busy with. One is that one listens to both sides. I really think this chapter that is missing on the spectrum is a little bit interesting. I can fully respect the fact that the government parties do not want to make any change to today’s work environment law – and I refer to my comments about this – but I still think it would have deserved a discussion. So the good conclusion is that everything is perfect just the way it is today. But the position of the Christian People's Party – what we have landed on, after going through the hearings thoroughly and discussing this – is that there is a need for a small modernisation. There will be alternative turns, which I still can't understand that one minister is very busy implementing tariffs, while the other minister is very concerned that it will not lead to improvements in working life. The second point is that if we're going to include more, we need a policy for inclusive working. But I believe that temporary employment is also a way in. When SV attacks me repeatedly, I cannot fail to refer to the Class struggle yesterday, where SV lighted out six different posts for the Storing Group, and where four of the posts are vicariates. There's nothing wrong with that, and it shows for the first time the SV's need for temporary labour, and secondly, I'm pretty sure the four who are so lucky to be allowed to work in the SV's pool, probably will show that they are good people and hopefully get regular employment next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1149	I'm not going to make any attempt to defend SV, but I just want to say that at certain times it can actually be safer with temporary employment. Labour market enterprises — in all their diversity, as different as they are — illustrate the relationship between labour market policy and industrial policy. It is both because they rehabilitate workers who have lost their ability to work and return them to work, and also because they offer jobs to people who are not in a normal working life. In addition, they are an important part of local business; many of these enterprises are respected members of local business associations. The Norwegian action industry – because that's what we're talking about – with a turnover of well over 7 billion. kr contributes to providing concrete content to the concept of ‘work for all’. When I call for better coordination of the instruments of labour market and industrial policy, it is because changes/restructuring/conversion in business, which are ongoing and which are absolutely necessary – and I include public activities – often create insecurity and fear among workers. Studies show that highly skilled workers are involved in such processes with greater self-confidence than lower-skilled workers. Then there are also the last to be consistently lost in such processes, and there is no denying that restructuring and conversion processes are causes of exclusion from the labour market. Here, too, we see that knowledge and competence are the answers to the challenges we face. At the same time, we know that this is a source of disability – simply because there is no job offer for those who become unemployed. The lack of employment services, or rather the lack of organized jobs, is an important cause of disability. Many of those who want to return to normal working life do not find the jobs they need, even if they are suitable for having them. We are, I think, facing a need for a change of attitude in the world of work, so that employers too are now willing to create jobs, to facilitate jobs for people who are initially a little further away from work than ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1160	The requirement that public procurement processes comply with Norwegian wage and work requirements is the result of ILO Convention No. Ninety-four. As far as I have been able to find out, it was put in place for State tendering by the Cooperation Government – we did not have a majority, but then there were probably others who voted in favour – in June 2005. The right has wholeheartedly supported the fact that this should also apply to municipal tendering procedures. So it's established. Then I want to visit the representative of Kolberg, because he says that the Right is going to make a strike for his working life policy in the last 70 years. I don't think there's any reason for that at all, and it should just be lacking that we should apologize because we don't look like the Labour Party caricature of the Right. I also think it is a rather strange claim that the tripartite cooperation is almost something the Workers' Party has invented and maintained alone. Perhaps the most important milestone in Norwegian working life was the main agreement in 1935. It was put in place between the social partners and was an important recognition of the employee organisations – in and on the part of the country, but mainly from employers. It was put in place a week and a half before Johan Nygaardsvold's government joined in March 1935. Of course, the movement of workers had an important role there, but that it was the creation of the Workers' Party, it just isn't right at all. About the years from 1945 until the Kings Bay accident and the Jon Lyng government in 1963, the golden year of tripartite cooperation – what is commonly termed the one-party state among historians – can also be discussed. It is clear that tripartite cooperation was developed in those years as well. But then the Borten government continued from 1965 to 1971. It continued during the Willoch government and the expanded Willoch government from 1980 to 1986, it continued during the Syse government, and it continued during the Bondevik II government. In fact, if you look at the last eight years, what has been called the most serious attack on tripartite cooperation, in 2006, came from this government. That was when the Stoltenberg government, the red-green government, unilaterally wanted to break the IA agreement and change the rules for the health pay scheme in Norway, and got both Gerd-Liv Valla and the employer's side on the neck. Rather, the discussion we have today is a discussion of how tripartite cooperation is going to be real. It is then essential – as the representative Svein Fletten from the Right said here in the Chair – that you listen to both the employees and the employers. The signals coming from Norwegian employers today, from business, are that they are not being listened to. It also presupposes listening to all employee organisations. Yes, LO is great, and it also deserves influence, of course. But almost 50 pst. by Norwegian workers are organised outside the LO. They also deserve to be listened to. They report that they are not, to a sufficient extent, today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1168	I record that the representative Isaksen needs ten years back to find examples that the Labour Party has not listened to the work organisations. We have examples from today's debate and the vote coming soon, that the right-hand side does not either. We have high-recorded employment, created 300,000 more jobs, while strengthening employees' rights. We've led an active fight against social dumping, and at the same time we're enthroned at the top of the indices that say something about where it's good to run business. We have a work environment legislation that ensures flexibility and security at the same time. It's this right-hand side now will experiment with. The opposition here today agrees on, is, worryingly enough, more temporary, a shift in the power of the labour force – more power at the hands of employers at the expense of workers – and not least continues to resist an active fight against social dumping. But that opposition doesn't agree is at least equally worrying. All of this gives reason to strongly warn against ever having the opportunity to negotiate a new employment policy, for that labour policy will not be at the intersection of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. No, on the contrary. That policy will lie at the intersection of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. In sum, I also believe that the debate and proposals in the vote today show that this will lead to a drastically changed working life. Many claims have been made about working time arrangements during today's debate. None of the examples of the opposition has emerged, either today or in the public debate, is the law against today. If you use the possibilities of the law, it doesn't give you such silly results that obviously seem unreasonable. The law is flexible and provides opportunities to work flexibly. The working party is concerned that it should be like this. We're not saying that something's stoned, we like to change things if it's for the benefit of the employees. That is why we have now said that we are looking at the time period for which exceptions can be made to the working time rules for which we are looking at whether or not it can be extended. We're willing to make improvements. But we'll never go into the opposition's orbit half and take from the trusted right to say no. I ask the representative Fleet to intervene in his own party's comments on the notification, because that's really what's the difference between the opposition and the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1177	A discussion between the representative Røe Isaksen and me about the story has probably limited interest in Stortinget. But: 1935 and 1936 – yes, but after work struggle and strike, not before, and after clear resistance from the right side of Norwegian politics at the time. It doesn't matter to rewrite, it doesn't matter to talk around. It's a fact. That was only when it happened. Trying to take it for granted — half a week’s distance — speaks for itself and, of course, falls on its notorious unreasonableness. So to the claim that the government parties, the Workers' Party, are civil in terms of legislation and understanding the development of Norwegian working life. It is said from all competent teams – it is not from Youngstorget or from the Labour Party’s investigation department, but from the OECD – that Norwegian working life is among Europe’s most flexible. That's what's the truth. The truth is that labour law, as it is today, gives room for all that the opposition claims to be false. They try to draw a picture of Norwegian working life as a serf work life that needs adjustments and liberalisation, while today’s organisation is what has given Norwegian business life – this to the representative Fleet – the greatest value creation and profit across Europe in post-war history. That's what's true. Neither do I. The fleet can read the OECD reports, and he'll see that I'm right about official statistics and figures. So the analyses are again wrong. If it is the case that the representative Fleet or the representative Red Isaac, or who it should be, is so very busy listening to everyone in the trade movement – as I am, and as I could spend a lot of time here, if there had been room for it – why do they not vote in accordance with it in the next case, on solidarity, as the entire Norwegian trade union movement asks, if they listen so carefully? But they don't. That's not true. That's the opposite that happens. They want this flexibility because they want to push the authority of Norwegian trade union movement out of the picture and leave it locally, another 95 pst. of all exemptions – and flexibility – are granted. There is not one truth that this hinders Norwegian flexibility in working life. No, it's not us who are ideological in this field -- it's the right-hand side's desire to drive labour into a liberalistic development. That's what this case is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1186	The representative of Kolberg challenged representatives from the right-hand side earlier today. He pointed out that it was a historic day. As far as I know, no one on that Kolberg mentions as the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, has ever accepted the tripartite cooperation or proposed to wind it up – not once. The historical thing in this regard must be that Kolberg has now discovered that there is a broad consensus among all political parties that we are behind the tripartite cooperation. The representatives Trettebergstuen and Kolberg say that you have full flexibility in the law today. But flexibility is not for everyone. Flexibility is full for those who are organized. They have specific provisions of the Working Environment Act and may make exceptions. They can negotiate. I want to recognise all Norwegian workers, give them the same freedom and authority, and give them the same opportunities to negotiate similar solutions. My challenge goes back to the representative Kolberg: Will he recognise the entire Norwegian working life? Does he recognize all Norwegian workers? Does he recognise the right to be unorganized on equal terms as one recognises the right to be organised? That's what the Progress Party is doing. Or is it so to understand that the representative Kolberg and the Workers' Party only recognize parts of Norwegian working life, while the rest are allowed to sail their own seas and do not need the same laws and regulations? The party of progress is quite clear on that. We want the same safeguards for all employees in Norway. We want to recognise the right to be unorganized in line with the right to be organized. We recognise the freedom of organization. We recognise and believe that everyone must have the same flexibility. This is important for the Progress Party. Then I just want to say that the Progress Party has and wants to have dialogue with all the different trade unions. We feel that we have good dialogue with many who are in the workplace. We won't stop having that. I would just like to conclude by saying that, with regard to the Left's proposal, the Progress Party will support the proposals No. 7, 8, and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1199	Working for everyone is the most important goal of the red-green government. They say a lot of times here today, and it's just as true, even if I say it again. There is also every reason to be proud of the low unemployment rate that we have in Norway. But that doesn't mean that we don't have challenges, as many people here have pointed out – involuntary part-time, more social security into working life, and social dumping are some of the challenges I want to talk about. In fact, this is the first time a communication on employment, working environment and safety in Norwegian working life has been submitted to the EEA. Of course, this is done by a red-green government. The message underlines the importance of a good and decent working life, and that this is an input for the Norwegian welfare model. I want to take some of the areas that are referred to here, first temporary addition. Before I got into Stortinget, I worked 20 years in a bank. The first question I asked the customer was, do you have a permanent job? If the answer was no, the call was quite short – there was no loan for your home or for other things. This has not changed. Right, think we'll get more jobs if it gets easier with temporary addition. How, then, does one explain that Norway, with its strong job protection, and with fixed additions, is at the very top when it comes to employment? The temporary addition is economically unsafe. Temporary addition reduces the possibility of qualification and of setting health, environmental and safety requirements. The temporary addition is immature and participates in the brutalization of the working life beyond. This means that more temporary additions will increase competitiveness, said the representative, Fleett, in his statement. How, then, does Right explain that Norway is climbing on the barometer regarding competitiveness, from 13th to 8th place this year? It shows exactly the same thing as a ‘doing business’ investigation; Norway is a good country to run business, and we have good competitiveness. There seems to be some sort of agreement in the hall that a high level of organisation is good. I'm still a little insecure after the article from the Progress Party. But in the Storting, we have handled a number of proposals from the Right and the Advance Party on tax incentives, which are alpha and omega in all other contexts than when it comes to getting up the organizational degree. Tax incentives are a right-based system and not always the right tool, but if you want everyone to organize, this is actually a good tool. Then it can be difficult to interpret differently than giving incentives for more people to organize, not desirable from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1219	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1222	I think the debate really shows that we agree very much, and then we discuss the small things that you disagree with. When the Christian People's Party wants a change, it is because we sincerely believe that there is a need for it. Kolberg is concerned that there is a great deal of flexibility in Norway. It is, but there are also many who want more flexibility in being able to work more in some periods. I think the example of the Labour Party-led Ministry of Defence, where you needed a little more labour because you had to provide a long-term plan, should be possible to solve in other ways. If someone wants to know the Working Environment Act, I think the Departments are the first. But the breaches alone aren't enough even if the law breaks hundreds of thousands of times, but the needs are so great. Then I just want to say that in the case of tripartite cooperation, that does not mean that one should only listen to the employers or only to the employees. My point with the forgotten chapter is that I had expected one to have at least listened to the employers, mentioned it, and then eventually landed on a conclusion, which was something different from what the employers wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1231	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1234	I just notice and take note that no representative from the opposition explains this attack on the Norwegian trade union movement regarding the deduction of the union quota and the failing logic in view of the employers – it speaks for itself. The political cat is really out of the bag through what's suggested there, and they're standing by. I'm just noticing that. The other thing I would like to say just very briefly is: does Martin Kolberg recognize the entire Norwegian working life? At the risk of the president going down, I'd say, have you heard the husband? For Norwegian trade union movement — the entire Norwegian trade union movement — good working conditions have been created for the entire Norwegian labour force. If we get more trade unions, it'll strengthen everyone. The content of tripartite cooperation is about providing legal content in such a way that Norwegian workers are protected. [[The President clubs]] That's what this is about, and we'll get back to it in the next case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1241	The President only knocks because of the time, not for expression – at least here. The representative Steinar Gullvåg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1246	I want to continue where the representative Kolberg left off, because it is clear that the representative Eriksson has not understood the content of the tripartite cooperation, when he releases the cats out of the bag and tells us that it is his concern for the unorganised – for free passengers – in Norwegian working life, which is his agenda. We already know that the Progress Party is attacking the AFP scheme, which has been negotiated by the trade unions, with the employers and with the authorities. We know that the Progress Party is attacking the IA agreement in order to run errands for free passengers in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1252	The working party is occupied by all the workers in the country. We have a special relationship with LO, which is historically justified, but which also makes itself equally valid today. It is not to be divided because we also have good cooperation with the other employee organisations. I have to say that I am stunned when Robert Eriksson makes it something highly unorganized. Having a well-organised working life is the prerequisite for ensuring participation and rights. The employee organisations do an amazing job of schooling their members in order to take care of the rights they have. It will be completely wrong to make a distinction, that employee organisations do not also take responsibility in addition to their own membership. This is done in the fight for full employment and in the fight against social dumping. It is not primarily about its own members, but what comes from outside, which primarily affects those who are not organized. Respect for tripartite cooperation: in fact, I think it is very special that one can also read in the newspapers, during the time we have had in public sector strikes, where the head of the Labour and Social Committee uses a lot of money to undermine the strike base of public sector employees. Of course, we should have full respect for that. The reason why we notice so well the consequences of strikes in the public sector is also that they do a fantastically important job. But in order for Norwegian workers to strengthen their own wage development, we can have a fair distribution of the value that we share, and ensure that we get a work life that is good and safe, and that takes care of the health of people, we actually need to encourage more people to organize. When Robert Eriksson promotes the right not to be organised, why not address the fear of organizing, which is in some sectors, among some workers — especially among foreign workers? They need an encouragement from us. I don't think the Progress Party is much of a part of that. The wedge that Civita and the bourgeois parties are trying to get in on the LO, the other employee organisations and the government, I don't think they're going to succeed with. I believe that all the employee organisations see the consequences of a possible government consisting of the Right and the Advance Party. It is not a government that will listen to the trade movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1267	The representative Robert Eriksson has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1270	I'm going to be lightning fast. As far as the strike is concerned, as the representative of Forsberg was concerned: I'm just recording what Jan Davidsen has said in the media – and former LO leader Yngve Hågensen. I record that more people believe that this strike was totally unnecessary – that it was simply because it was badly handled by the government. Then I must be allowed to say: I am quite upset when the representative Gullvåg is allowed to stand on the platform in this room and present a lie. The Progress Party has always supported the IA Agreement. The progress party has entered for the AFP for all. And not enough – it's called "free passengers". I think it's going very far. No, the Progress Party – and I – want to motivate people to organize. But I also respect the individual's freedom to decide for myself what you want. Although the individual will make decisions that I do not agree with, I respect the individual's freedom to make those decisions. That is what this is about, but as I note, the left-hand side of Norwegian policy will not recognise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1281	There is no doubt that the undertone of the Progress Party's policy, as we see it in the positions and decisions here in the Stortinget, and also in the rhetoric out in the public space, bears the mark of an undertone, which says that the trade movement definitely has too much power and too much influence. For the Progress Party, it seems to be a problem that people are in a community of interests and thus together achieve better pay and working conditions than they would do alone. It's historyless to fight something like that. It's historyless not only with respect to the entire Norwegian model and the good results it's produced, but it's also historyless with all the trade unions, who every day do a job that's created these results. This is why the attack of the Progress Party on organised labour by opening up to more temporaryity, by voting against social dumping, is not surprising. It is not just an attack on good policy that has produced results. It's not just an attack on the hard-pressed rights of the trade union movement, it's an attack on all of us and on Norwegian society as we know it – good society, high employment, good welfare state, high level of flexibility. It is this Advancement Party in reality fighting against when they choose to view the power of the trade movement as a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1290	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1319	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the insertion of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1330	We are now dealing with two important issues, two issues to which there has been a lot of attention. The cases concern the implementation of the agency directive and the follow-up measures. First, I will be allowed to thank my colleagues in the Committee for a clean and good process to come up with the options. I want to start with some comments related to the agency directive. The Directive was adopted in the EU in the autumn of 2008. The deadline for implementing the Directive in the EU was actually 5 December 2011. In order to prevent Norway from delaying the entry into force of the decision to include the Directive in the EEA Agreement, it is proposed that the Storting should give its consent before the EEA Committee takes its decision. In this respect, it will not be necessary for Norway to reserve the institutional procedures by decision of the EEA Committee. If the final decision of the EEA Committee were to deviate materially from the draft submitted in the proposal, the matter would be brought before the Stortinget again. The aim of the Directive is to increase the protection of staff in employment agencies and to recognise the place of employment agencies in the labour market. The Directive has been fought by the trade union movement in Europe, precisely because it strengthens the staff of the employment agencies through the principle of non-discrimination. Equal treatment means that hired workers are given the same working and employment conditions as those employed directly by the lessee. This Directive is also considered to be EEA relevant, as it concerns one of the four freedoms. For many of us, this is also an important argument in favour of the directive, as the EEA Agreement is important in order to avoid possible EU membership. The majority of the Committee – The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party – supports the implementation of the Directive by Norway, while the SV and the Centre want to use the right of reservation. They also argue that equal treatment can be ensured without having to implement the Directive. I expect that they are going to erode their vision. So it is a large majority in the Stortinget that today endorses its implementation. This is done on the basis that we want equal treatment and that we are committed to recognising the place of employment agencies in the labour market. At the same time, it has been important for the Committee to stress that we believe that current rules on hiring and temporary employment can be maintained as they are in the Working Environment Act today. The general rule of Norwegian working life shall be permanent employment. In the view of the majority of the Committee, and in the view of numerous legal investigations, there is no reason to change the law in the light of the Temporary Agency Directive. The implementation of the Directive requires some legislative changes. They come in the second matter we are now discussing, and it is often called the action package. Here comes the government with proposals on equal treatment for workers hired out of employment agencies, as well as a number of measures to ensure their compliance. An overall committee supports the introduction of the principle of non-discrimination. After the hearing of the Committee, there was a disagreement as to whether the concept of pay is sufficiently clarified in the proposition. Here the majority, with the government parties, believe that it is sufficiently precise, while the opposition wants clarification to ensure that the concept of pay is easy to understand for employees, landlords and tenants, so that we avoid conflict. However, the Committee also agrees on the recognition of the manpower sector, and we point out that non-discrimination will ensure that competition under pay and working conditions is avoided. Then we ensure that unprofessional actors are pushed out, and we can avoid social dumping. The Progress Party has gone against most of the other measures, and I expect their members to explain that. The Christian People's Party and the Right have chosen to support the actions we believe are good, while we also oppose more, because we believe there are measures on which there is no evidence that are necessary to ensure the principle of non-discrimination. Here it is well time to clarify that I have taken off the case rapporteur's hat. The Christian People's Party feels that several of the measures carry as much of the marking needs as they have a real reason. Indeed, the Christian People's Party supports the use of public disclosure, including joint and several liability, transparency and disclosure when properly justified. We are in favour of measures that address real problems. The publication of collective bargaining agreements is conditional on the existence of particularly overriding reasons of general interest and on the existence of clearly documented needs. Generalised collective bargaining agreements apply directly to manning companies, which means that joint and several liability is already in place in areas where this should be necessary. Nor have we been shown to show that crew companies are significantly different from other businesses in terms of the cleanliness of pay payments, nor can they see that there is a sufficient need for the introduction of joint and several liability in relation to the principle of non-discrimination. The Christian People's Party has also requested that there be scope for derogations from the principle of non-discrimination when central collective agreements are concluded between workers' and employers' organisations, which the Directive provides for. This was proposed by the government in the autumn 2010 consultation round, but I note that this possibility of exemption was removed – despite the fact that the Union, the YS, the academics and the NHO differed in support of the non-discrimination principle in the consultation round. The only people who clearly opposed it were LO. I'm not going to run too much polemics on that, but it might seem that the pinch the government got in when LO turned in its support for the agency directive, led to more measures being introduced. The strange thing is that the proposals were justified by the government during the consultation that access to exemptions from the principle of non-discrimination would lead to real flexibility for the social partners, while industry-specific exemptions do not lead to different pay and working conditions in the same industry for hired workers. Furthermore, it was pointed out that this is an area suitable for agreement between the parties. We believe that Norway, if you do not choose to adopt an exception rule, disapproves of the right to self-determination in work matters. This is to undermine the Norwegian model that we discussed in the future, with cooperation between the trade unions and employers' associations in order to develop working life. There is no reason to fear that central collective agreements would undermine the rights of employees. Instead, more staff in the manning industry would be given the opportunity to pay between assignments, and there would be room for practical adjustments that would ensure better control and compliance. The Christian People's Party is concerned with a working life that is characterized by good working conditions, regular employment, orderly working time, flexibility and a good working environment. We want to fight social dumping and unprofessionalism, and we want to prevent the law from being eroded or avoided by, for example, the law. sub-contract prices. However, the manning industry will continue to play an important role in the proper functioning of the labour market. Renting makes it possible to adapt to variations in the need for labour and to cover temporary absences of employees. That's why the Christian People's Party, like the industry, is concerned that the manning industry is serious. The agency is also an important way into working life for some workers, and can give job-seekers who otherwise have difficulty getting a foot into the labour market a chance to try out. According to the NHO Services membership survey from 2011 to 2012, employees report that most were unemployed or students before they started in a recruitment agency. The main reason for working in the industry is precisely that it is a good gateway to the world of work. I also registered that 72 pst. By the employees they say they are happy with the work in the personnel industry, that they work full-time and have worked less than one year in the industry. I regret to say that this matter has become more a symbolic matter for the government parties. The Christian People's Party is constructive, and we are therefore voting for the good measures that lie here today, and we are willing to take more action, but they must be properly justified. Finally, I would like to re-examine the proposal that the Christian People's Party shares with the Advance Party and the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1376	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1379	The fight for a good, safe and decent working life is far from over. Working life is constantly facing new challenges that require us to think differently and new, and to find new tools, not just to preserve decent working life, but to further develop, strengthen and improve it, and to get more groups into it. It has always been the aim of the Workers' Party in labour policy. The inclusion of the agency directive and the introduction of the action package here today are just about that. It is one of several social dumping tools and for better rights for more workers. Together with the powerful package of measures that the government has now presented, we are taking new steps towards a better working life today. We do not want it to be profitable to hire underpaid unorganised labour to businesses in Norway. We see today that workers hired often do not have the same pay and working conditions as those employed permanently in the rental business. This Directive contributes to the survival of this challenge. Temporary workers shall have equal pay and working conditions to those they would otherwise have had permanent employment in the enterprise. The directive has been challenged by the European trade union movement against liberal forces on the right-hand side of the EU, which considered that the directive would give too good conditions to workers. The Labour Party is fully in line with the European trade union movement in this matter. The introduction of the Directive weakens the ability of temporary employment agencies to compete with lower pay and lower conditions. In this way, the Directive can also help to limit the use of temporary workers and the scope of unprofessional temporary employment agencies. That's the unprofessional part of the business we want to live, not the whole business, obviously. We want a more serious industry, which does not undermine the general rule and the floor plan of the Norwegian labour force: permanent and direct employment and equal treatment under pay and working conditions. The Norwegian Labour Environment Act, which guarantees this today, must be preserved. With the Workers' Party at the rudder, there will never be free of temporary employment or hiring-in. The Temporary Directive will also not increase the use of temporary workers. It provides clear rules on when countries may restrict their use, even prohibit the use of rentals. It is a reality that even this matter we are now dealing with clearly shows the political differences between the government parties and the opposition. According to good old practice and tradition, the right side of today again votes against powerful, good instruments against social dumping, for non-discrimination, and for a more serious manning industry. Saying no to joint responsibility, transparency and the obligation to discuss testifies to an opposition that does not take the problems seriously and does not ensure that the principle of non-discrimination is implemented. The fact that the lessee becomes jointly and severally responsible for the agency being paid and the treatment it requires, or that trustees are to be given access to the terms of the agency; that is to say, it should be lacking! It's about ensuring that equality actually happens. These are the simplest and most effective instruments. Why the opposition is so afraid that trade unions and trustees will have to do their job with new tools, they will have to answer for themselves. The whole setting is thus a large distrust statement to the trustee apparatus around. There's probably evidence that the right-hand side is not willing to fight social dumping with the measures that work. For the Workers' Party, the fight against social dumping is more than adorned in celebrations. We know that the fight requires extensive action and regulation in a European labour market. That is why we agree to the directive in combination with the package of measures, because this together will lead to a better working life for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1396	The Progress Party is very pleased that we have now got the case on the agency directive for Stortinget. As the rapporteur was in the Chamber, and as the representative of the Trettebergstuen also said in his statement, this has been a long-standing issue in Europe. The first decisions to put it in place already came in 2008. The Progress Party is committed to having a serious and well-functioning working life, where the manning industry is also regarded as a fully integrated part of the labour market. We fully recognise the manning industry as an equivalent player, like all other actors in Norwegian working life. I also think it is interesting in that sense to see how the Norwegian debate has developed, especially in the last time and the last year, because the Progress Party has always fully supported, and as I understand the Workers' Party has done, an overall European trade union movement's call for equal treatment between those employed in the recruitment agencies, those initiated by them, and those employed by the hire companies. It is also interesting to note LO’s hearing opinion on 7 December 2010, which includes writing. att ‘LO will further point out that the wording of Article 1 of the Directive – scope and Article 3 – definitions further underpins the preservation of § 14-12.’ ‘Sections 14 to 12 may be retained’ – it has also been important for the Progress Party that Section 14 to 12 of the Working Environment Act should be a matter within its competence and determine the political content of this Assembly. So as different political parties in this room, we can disagree on what is going to be the content of that paragraph, but at least we're very concerned that it's going to be us in this room who make these decisions. We have therefore chosen to deal with the LO hearing opinion of 7 December 2010, and have taken it into account in our approach also when dealing with this matter. So we all know afterwards what has happened in Norway, and that we have gone away from the position of the Norwegian trade union movement, which I think is a pity, but the more pleased we have that we have a government that has maintained these important non-discrimination principles between those employed in the temporary employment agency and those who are permanently employed in ordinary enterprises. I want to quote Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's statements to NTB, dated 15 February 2012, where he says: 'It is a paradox that the trade movement in Europe is in favour of the directive and that it is referred to as a victory, whereas it is the opposite in Norway. But that's the way it is in politics. We must deal with this." And as he goes on to say: 'We in favour of the directive are, of course, because we believe it strengthens the rights of the temporary workers.' Well said – and more agree with Prime Minister Stoltenberg, I cannot remain in this matter! To sum up, I think it's also a clear expression of the Progress Party's opinion. We are in favour of the directive. Then I just want to say a few words about the package of measures and about why we are going against large parts of it. That is because, we believe, the directive ensures equal treatment. When it comes to public procurement, we have our own proposal – in line with the debate we had earlier – in which we also want to discuss other issues in terms of the principle of public procurement. As far as extended joint and several liability is concerned, we are opposed. I find that what comes from the government, the proposal that exists, is unclear. As I see it, it almost means that the customer becomes responsible for the employee – to a greater extent than the employee. I think that's going to be the wrong principle. To take a very simple example: if I'm going to jump down to Narvesen and buy me a box of snuffs, it's me as a customer who's about to be held responsible for whether that behind the box gets the salary that he deserves. It seems to me that it is too great a responsibility to impose on me as a customer. That's why we're going against it. With regard to transparency, it is not the case that the Progress Party is in principle opposed to the ability of trustees to have transparency in contracts with hired labour. But I've been talking to a lot of trustees in companies that tell me that this is one of the hardest things you're getting into, precisely because there's a young guy of different collective agreements, it's hard to keep track of. As a trustee said to me: Because in my company I am elected to trust in the Joint Union, I have not, by virtue of having thus acquired special competence to enter and make the right decisions in relation to which I have the right to see. There's a signal that I choose to listen to, and I want to go against the proposed mitigations in that area. I do not believe that the most important instrument for this is to privatise the supervisory systems. If that's something we're not going to privatize, it's the supervision systems. Here I think it is important that we rather build on the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate as supervisory authorities, who should have the competence and professional responsibility to enter into and supervise and ensure that there are proper and good working arrangements. This is at least the starting point of the Progress Party for us to vote against most of the action package. Finally, I can inform you that we are voting in favour of the second and third paragraphs of Section 14–12. The same will apply to the other chapters of the Civil Service Act. The others we're going against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1439	This president was tougher to start the clock fast than previous presidents have been, but it's fine. This has been a controversial matter – in part. At the same time, it is worth noting that there is a very broad majority on the Stortinget that is now going in to introduce the so-called temporary agency directive into Norwegian law. The starting point for the Right when we support it is not primarily that this is an EEA Directive. There is another discussion, and through internal discussions, the Right has previously shown that it is also possible to discuss EEA Directives in the Right. The starting point is that it is a good and reasonable principle. So temporary employment agencies, agency agencies, play an important role in almost every working life. It's like a lot of companies, parties, organizations and public agencies will sometimes need to take people on temporary contracts, or at least to take people on a temporary basis. Today the rules are in practice such that it is fully possible to pay less when you hire a person, than what you do for him if he or she had been employed in the business. In principle you can discuss it up and down in mind. But what's obvious is that the danger of such a policy is, of course, that it becomes more attractive to have people as temporary workers or to have people from the manpower industry, and that it thus helps undermine the principle of permanent employment. The second is that although the major players are serious, there have also been some actors in the personnel industry who have been what we should be able to call unprofessional. What we want to achieve is very simple. We want to make life easier for those who follow the law, for those who are decent employers, and for those who have proper terms and conditions, and then we want to make things more difficult for those who are unprofessional. I think some of the criticism of the temporary agency directive has been very strange. It's very strange, precisely because the principle of non-discrimination, in isolation at least, will make it more expensive for many to rent in than today. It must also be a good principle for those who are more sceptical than the Right to the Employment Offices. I would also like to stress that parts of the debate have contained descriptions of the recruitment agencies that I believe are greatly exaggerated. So it's not like that there are even wild-west states in the Norwegian manning industry, although I say again that there are some unprofessional actors. Nor is it the fact that it is initially less good to be employed in a staffing agency. It is also worth noting that numbers from the manning industry themselves show that very many of those who start the professional career in the manning industry are moving on to a permanent job. So there's too many people able to get into the world of work. This is simply a way to organise — clean up — while at the same time it is a handshake to the serious parts of the industry. During the treatment, it has also been important for the Right to stress that we also base the government's understanding of law, i.e. that we do not consider that the EU agency directive should in itself entail a change to the environmental protection law. It has been an important signal to send out, not least to those who have been sceptical about the temporary agency directive. With regard to the package of measures that has come from the government, I fully agree with the considerations that Mr Ingolf Ruppstad of the Christian People's Party had. I would just like to stress once again that more of the instruments used here are introduced differently from when they come to public areas – in general areas there is a public service title, and there is a strict documentation requirement. This is where you are led – you put in place tools that many people see as quite radical and drastic, but without having documented and had a proper process on them. So you haven't made it clear why they're needed or documented. This is also a small mention of the discussion of tripartite cooperation that we had earlier today, because it is worth noting that large parts of the world of work and business are very critical of many of these measures. Of course, you can choose to ignore it and ignore the business input. You can choose to dismiss it as ‘only’ employer’s recordings, but in that case it will be a serious breach of the thinking behind the tripartite cooperation, which is not that you should agree on one and all — if that was the case, the Workers’ Party would go against the Temporary Agency Directive, which is also opposed to an overall Norwegian trade movement, but which is that you listen to recordings and try to find a balance between different interests. Finally, I would just like to stress that the right-wing vote will be in favour of the parts of the package of measures that we consider to be important, which we believe are necessary, and which we believe have been demonstrated, while at the same time voting against the few points that we do not support in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1460	Permanent employment shall be the foundation of our regulated working life. That is why it is a very important objective for the SV and also a very important objective, fortunately, for the red-green government, to prevent the development of a labour society characterised by more temporaryity in different parts of the world of work. We see today that the temporaryity and undermining of several people's ability to get permanent employment is something that can be driven from two teams. One is the right-hand side of Norway, which wants to amend laws and regulations that currently guarantee important rights in the labour market. The second is from the EU, which, through both directives and decisions of the Court of Justice, has systematically changed the power of parts of European working life in recent years. It is important to be aware of both the two dangers of the regulated Norwegian labour market and to put in place measures to protect us from them. A labour society must be avoided primarily for the sake of individual safety. Fixed employment and the possibility of predictability it gives is a prerequisite for the security of houses, homes and jobs, which some of the parties in this room had as slogans for some years ago. It's hard to get a loan to buy a house if you don't have a regular job. It's hard to plan for the future. But there is also a question of power – about the balance of power in the individual workplace and the balance of power in our society between different societal forces. It is true that European trade unions have fought for equal treatment for temporary workers and European rules in this area. But it is also true that the laws of different European countries are very different. On Tuesday, there was a taboo marking in front of the Stortinget where very many trade unions and associations had met to appeal to the Stortinget not to implement the temporary agency directive in the EEA Agreement. It was elected by the construction sites, the shipbuilding industry, the services sector and the public sector. A broad alliance in the Norwegian trade union movement has supported that requirement, and SV is fully in line with the Norwegian trade union movement in this case. It was said by one of the right-hand speakers earlier today that this had become a symbol for the trade movement. I think we should be careful to use the kind of concepts of those who are closest to seeing the consequences of the policies we adopt in this room in this area. The very clear resistance of the trustees in different parts of the trade movement makes at least a strong impression on SV. We are concerned with the same thing that the other parties are concerned about – that we should have equal treatment for the temporary workers, better rights for the temporary workers. It would also be possible for us to introduce Norwegian legislation unilaterally without the directive. I note that the majority in this Chamber argues that the Directive does not imply any need to amend the Working Environment Act in any negative way. I hope the majority is right in that. However, I believe it is important that we seek to leave the most important issues in this society as issues we have the opportunity to influence politically, and not questions that we primarily leave to the jessen. We know that it has been suggested from both the concerned parts of the trade movement and from some employers that the Directive can be used to weaken the Labour Environment Act on a very important point, namely the link between temporary employment and temporary employment. The SV's starting point is that we're not going to give the right to try it out, that we're going to pick the zero risk line, and that's saying no to the directive. We are very pleased with the package of measures that we are adopting today. We record Right-wing resistance to parts of it, which show that there is a big difference between the new rhetoric on the right-hand side and the policy they actually stand for. In addition, we would like to have more with us in our no to the agency directive. In line with the SV's view of government, the SV's group will oppose the inclusion in the EEA agreement of the agency directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1477	Employment policy is crucial for Norwegian social development and welfare systems. For the Central Party, it is therefore fundamental that such an important part of the people’s lives should be handled by the Norwegian People’s Government and not be subject to dynamic legal developments within the EEA Agreement. The Employment Agency Directive challenges important principles in today's Work Environment Act and encourages questions to be asked about the measures that the government wants to introduce to ensure a fair and orderly working life. We in the Center Party are concerned that fixed addition should be the main rule in Norwegian working life and avoid increasing the number of temporary additions. The Directive challenges this social view. The central party is aware that the directive can give workers in the labour market greater rights in some areas. However, these positive aspects of the Directive are still free to be implemented by Norwegian legislation, and that is not an independent argument for introducing the Directive. The Temporary Agency Directive will work differently in countries with different legislation in this area. A comparison between countries in the case of trade-trafficking reactions to the Directive is therefore not a good measure of how the Directive could enter Norwegian working life. In other countries where the entry and exit have already been liberalised, this Directive will of course be seen as a good and non-discriminatory substitute. This does not automatically mean that the Directive will strengthen workers' rights in Norway. Followers of the directive believe that it will improve their dishes in some areas. The centre party thinks it should be up to Norwegian democracy to govern Norwegian employment. In the case of changes in labour law and service workers' laws, the Centre Party will, as it is clear from our own comments, point out that equal treatment of temporary workers and hired workers can be agreed independently of the agreement to the temporary agency directive. A well-functioning work life with security for one's own job is not a good thing for employees only. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is also a significant strength for Norwegian employers. It is also important for the Central Party to point out that the Directive is not a negotiated result between the parties, but a text which contains essentially the same directive as that proposed by the European Commission in 2002 and on which there was no agreement at the time, and which has also today been a collective, or at least a broad, trade union movement. There is also a package of measures which has many measures in place that will help to strengthen their rights. This is, of course, supported by the Center Party. However, following an overall assessment, the Centre Party has concluded that we will not give our support to the recommendation and consent to participate in a decision of the EEA Committee on inclusion in the EEA Directive on temporary agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1492	The left supports the introduction of the agency directive – in fact, with great enthusiasm. I think this is one of the important steps for anti-dumping in terms of jobs and labour. I believe it is a fundamental principle, which is important to maintain, to have a level playing field and equal rights in the labour market. I believe that both EU directives and directives are unnecessary – some of them are also incorrect. But this is clearly an area that the EU should regulate. If, as EEA members, we want directives that we should be similar in Europe, they are exactly of this kind. This is of the kind of directive that guarantees equal rights for workers and ensures that we do not have a different labour market across Europe. We have put forward a number of proposals in this case which really concern case No. 2, which I argued for in case No. 2, but that I would like to promote during the treatment of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1501	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1505	There is reason to welcome a framework to ensure the pay and working conditions of hired workers. By including the agency directive into the EEA Agreement, a pan-European non-discrimination principle will also apply in Norway. I think that's important. Sides of the temporary agency directive have been controversial in Norwegian debate. Many have argued that Norway should make a reservation against the directive. This is not due to the fact that the rights granted by the Directive are opposed, but to the fear that Norway may be forced to change the rules on hiring and temporary employment. The question concerns fundamental rights which trade unions and political parties on the left have always fought for: the right to permanent employment and predictability of work and income. I believe that there is a good basis for saying that the Norwegian rental rules can be maintained. It is taken into account as an explicit pre-condition for the legislative changes, that the applicable rules for the hiring-in and hire-out of labour can be continued. In addition, the Government will clearly highlight its policy and ambitions for Norwegian working life when considering the matter in the EEA Committee. The personnel industry has a role to play in the Norwegian labour market. The hiring-in of workers may allow enterprises to adapt to the greatest variations in labour demand. It may cover temporary absences due to leave. The alternative to rental can easily be overtime pressure, shifted working time and the use of call points. Today’s legislation facilitates such a role for agencies. This presupposes that the manning industry is serious and that the volume of rentals does not undermine a labour market which is clearly dominated by permanent jobs. We see an unfortunate trend in some sectors towards fewer fixed-term jobs. This is due to several relationships, not just the access to rental. We will keep an eye on this development. The opposition has criticised the fact that we do not propose to legislate that the parties may agree exemptions from the principle of non-discrimination in the collective bargaining agreement. I do not think there is a need for such an exception today, as there is no concrete need made visible. Instead, we have proposed a regulatory home to provide for exemptions. It follows from the agency directive that arrangements must be put in place to ensure that the rules are complied with. A number of proposals have been put forward in the proposal to contribute to precisely this kind of compliance. The Government proposes that the lessee provide the manning undertaking with the information necessary to satisfy the requirement of non-discrimination. The manpower undertaking shall provide its own employees with information on the basis of which the remuneration and working conditions are based. The government has also proposed transparency for the trustees of the lessee, so that they can discuss the issue with the employer and influence in the right direction. An important measure is also the proposal that the lessee should be jointly and severally liable for wages and salaries, holiday pay, etc. together with the manning undertaking. Such responsibility will motivate and follow up on the duration of the mission to select a staffing undertaking that operates seriously and properly. The opposition to the temporary agency directive in the trade union movement is in a wider concern for the development of fewer permanent, direct employment in Norwegian working life. You fear a development towards a layman's society. This is much more than temporary agency employees, but also temporary individual employees, ringers, increased use of subcontractors, contractors, etc. This wider unrest is taking the government seriously, and developments here will lead to further efforts for a good and decent working life in Norway. The government has put forward a proposal that will improve pay and working conditions for temporary agency workers and a solid package of measures to ensure these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1531	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1534	I believe the Council of State and the Christian People's Party agree that solidarity, transparency and disclosure obligations are quite radical measures, but there are measures that will be necessary to avoid social dumping once proven. The general public is in the sectors where it has been proven and where it has been subject to thorough treatment and where it has found that it is necessary. Can the Council of State provide some examples or some evidence that there is a basis for applying to the entire manning industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1541	We see a worrying trend in some sectors in the use of temporary workers, in addition to what is clearly legitimate use of temporary workers. Then we have many bad examples of the use of temporary workers. I think we agree that we have had many unfortunate things that are very scary for development. That is why we wanted to introduce joint and several liability in relation to this industry. We want to be absolutely sure that when you want to use temporary workers, you also make sure that those who supply temporary workers deliver well and correctly. Solidarity, round-the-circuit, with the vicarbranse, will result in buyers of temporary employment services having a special look – to put it that way – and a special obligation to take action to ensure that they buy the services of the serious ones. Because there is no shortage of unprofessional temporary employment agencies. Although the main weight is of course good, there is no lack of it – to say it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1546	I record that in the hearing notes – at least at the hearing – the government proposes to legislate an exception provision. Then I hear the Council of State from the pulpit today saying that there was no visible need to legislate it. When the hearing was over, I registered that both Unio, NHO, YS and the academics had no objections to such a law. What has made the government go away from it? Are individual hearing opinions due, or is there any new information that the Council of State could have given as to why she believes it has not been made visible and that the issue they initially saw is no longer present?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1551	The background is, as was also said, that there is no apparent need. It was in the hearing that the parties agreed on this. We don't see that there's a great need for this now, but we're clear that it's a prescription shelter. If the need is there, it's access to use that regulatory home. I don't see this as a big, dramatic difference in relation to what was really in the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1556	I want to follow up on the answer from instead, because I was really not quite satisfied. It is because I believe that the consensus that it is quite intrusive means that there should be good arguments and good evidence that it should be put into practice. As far as I know about work, it's basically very good. So there are in some industries, especially, some unprofessional actors. In any case, the principle of non-discrimination should, hopefully, eliminate those unprofessionals who are just using wages and employment as a single measure to make them cheaper. That is why I and the Christian People's Party think that yes, we are willing to apply the measures when necessary, but the reason why we are going against it on a general basis today is precisely that we are not able to see that it is proven that there are unprofessional actors, grotesque cases, on social dumping on a general basis. Nor do I think it would be good for the industry to implement in general. That's why I lack more documentation or examples that make it necessary to use it as drastically as the government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1563	I don't think it's unparliamentary when I don't say it to the representative, but I say it more about a vision: I think it's naive to think that we round baht have a vicarbrane that always acts really. I can give many examples of the opposite, but I think the absolutely important thing is that we know too little about it, because we see that in the case of temporary workers, there is an extensive use of labour coming from outside, that knows nothing about their rights, and that has no prerequisite for enforcing their rights. That's why we're busy creating a package around those employees. I think it's very important to do that. The point is that for the serious, proper employers in Norway, this is not a problem. They buy in the services of the temporary employment agencies that we know are good, and they never see any need for these rules. For them, it is a competitive advantage that we now make sure that the unprofessional do not serve to be unprofessional. I don't understand the concern. I believe that it is much more important to be led was – to the extent that it is led was. I think the problem is already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1570	I agree with the Council of State that this is an advantage for the serious actors – the big, serious actors. The challenge will be if you have a smaller company, because then you may not trust that you have enough liquidity to rent in. That's why you can get a very twist in the business. I'm busy closing out the unprofessional actors. Governments come up with assumptions – you say you ‘believe’. Everyone says to the Christian People's Party that it doesn't keep believing, you have to know. That's what I'm concerned about. When you implement such an intervention, it does not hold to believe, but you must know that it actually works. That's why I'm for publicity. I will not continue there – I see I have some time left and want to return to what was done on the principle of non-discrimination and the exception. What is the reason why the Council of State does not want more people to be able to conclude pay agreements between assignments or so-called guarantee wages? This is one of the main reasons why it should be possible for a person in each industry to enter into a reasonable contract between the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1582	I don't think so, I know there's a lot of unprofessionality in the vicarbransy. But I also know that there are very many good ones, and I know that fixed employment should be the general rule in Norwegian law. If you're going to use temporary workers, you're going to have to buy it from the serious people. I don't think it's about distortion of competition. It's about being briefed on the serious, and here we give the world of work a clear signal that they should. Because if they don't, who's going to pay the cost of it? Shouldn't the employee, the hired one, get his salary? Or are we going to put the responsibility on those who have the ability to identify where the serious are? And who am I going to buy from? This has a provocative effect, which I think is very important. I really do not understand why we cannot agree on this, because we have joint responsibility in other areas. The EU, as they do in their new packages, has also been aware that solidarity is an important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1592	I think the whole key, which the Council of State doesn't seem to be able to grasp, is: Well, we have that kind of instrument -- solidarity, transparency and that kind of thing -- in the public areas. The point is that there's something else. We have a public service subject. We have a clear documentation requirement. There are now proposals to weaken that documentation requirement, but I have not yet heard that the government has said they are in favour of it. And there are also time-limited measures. What is the discussion here is that when you introduce some of the same instruments, you do it without going through the process that, at least in some cases, the parties have agreed to be there. This means that there is a breach of the idea of tripartite cooperation, precisely because one has created unrest and uncertainty, and one goes beyond the established arrangements that are there to introduce that type of intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1598	The arrangements we have, we're going to have. Then I hear that everyone in this room brings out their party speeches and says that the temporary agency directive is so good, because it ensures non-discrimination. But it ensures non-discrimination on paper. We have to be sure that we get a real equal treatment for the groups we see now being recruited especially into the vicarbrese, because there are people – I repeat – who are not always very well able to care for themselves, and perhaps also have no interest in caring for themselves, because they are happy to get a job. But we don't want Norway to have a working life that looks like that. I agree that these are unusual instruments. I have answered something in today's business about this: I see that this can be seen as an intervention in the general right of management for the employer. But in this particular area – the vicarbransia – we are not in the general working life. We see trends that are clear beyond what we think a general working life should be. And then we say, well, that's the way it should be. For those who are serious, it's completely unproblematic. But we want to point out that in the case of the unprofessional, the workers are not going to suffer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1607	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1610	Apart from the fact that the parties see something different in the EEA Agreement, as far as I can judge, there are two factors on the basis of which the temporary agents recommend us to use the right of reservation rather than to join the Directive. One is the fear that the EFTA Court of Justice, against the assumption and following complaints from Norwegian employers, would oblige Norwegian authorities to amend the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on temporary employment for the hire of labour, and that the Temporary Employment Agency Directive would lead to an increase in the use of temporary workers and temporary workers. Like most others, I have recorded growth in the manpower industry in recent years and extensive use of hired labour in both the private and public sectors, i.e. before implementing the temporary agency directive. Many suggest that there are at all times around 100,000 foreign workers on short-term contracts in Norwegian working life, mainly from EEA countries in Eastern Europe. It's said to be 40 pst. by all those working in the construction industry in the Oslo area are hired workers. There are raised doubts that many of those who come to Norway to seek employment are offered much worse pay and working conditions than is usual here in the country, both in the construction industry and in other industries. In my opinion, there are two reasons why the rental company has intervened, which means that many Norwegian companies are looking forward to using hired labour. One is, of course, that enterprises can, in this way, get rid of the responsibilities of employers and the social obligations arising therefrom and, furthermore, that it is often far more reasonable to hire labour than to use their own employees, because wages are dumped to a large extent. The other is, of course, our enviable employment situation with labour shortages and ample labour supply from other EEA countries. We now see that access to cheap labour from outside is a threat to Norwegian wage and working conditions and acquired professional rights. That is why I believe – and still believe – that the non-discrimination requirements of the temporary agency directive are good news for Norwegian working life, that those hired should have exactly the same pay and working conditions as permanent employees, including social rights. In other words, it becomes less profitable to hire labour and more profitable to invest in own employees. As a result, there would also be fewer unemployed workers in Norwegian working life, while hired workers would be treated in the same way as permanent workers. I recognise correctly that there are gaps in this reasoning, especially through the use of temporary workers in the public sector, because the expenditure on pensions is excluded. In the general government sector, pension expenditure is 20-25 pst. of the personnel costs. It goes without saying that the agency that does not offer its employees equivalent pension conditions will thus have a competitive advantage. I see, of course, that non-discrimination of pensions can lead to certain practical problems, but not worse than that it is solved within the hospital. I must confess that I am surprised at the extensive resistance to the temporary agency directive in the trade movement – surprised because, according to my concepts, it is based on the fear of consequences I cannot fully see. There is no reason to argue that, following a possible complaint from Norwegian employers, the EFTA Court will oblige us to amend our legislation as a result of a minimum directive. We should not weaken Norwegian work environment legislation, we should strengthen it. The threat to the Working Environment Act is made up of those parties that will reverse several of the measures we are adopting today, if they are given government power after the major elections next year. However, the principle of non-discrimination is in line with the Directive. Should we then turn around, as many in the trade movement demanded? Of course not. We have to do what we think is right. The implementation of the temporary agency directive is also about our relationship with the EU and the EEA Agreement, and I am afraid that much of the resistance to the directive is also reflected in it. Except that it has its cost to use the EEA Reservation Law, I hardly think it would have been understood if Norway were to say no to a directive that the European trade union movement has fought against, and whose purpose is to secure temporary workers and hire the same conditions as permanent employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1630	Our society has actually become dependent on the manning industry, but then an industry that is serious and well-functioning on the same lines as other operators in the world of work. Today, the industry stands for more than 1 pst. of the annual work of Norway. The industry is responsible for the efficient supply of labour in many industries, which is good for the country, the labour force and the workers. Many young people start their working life through a temporary employment agency to find out what you want and want to do. Some stay in the temporary agency, because this life actually suits them best in terms of the amount of work, flexibility and new jobs, which provide increased skills for different employers. And it's a good part that's permanently added to the temporary employment agency today – it's actually happening. There have been several headlines in the media where one has uncovered unworthy employment in the manning industry, which in turn has led to revelations of an equally rough character both in these and in the public sector. There's now been a huge cleanup in this, and it's almost so that we hope that now it shines out of everything. The conditions of employment of temporary workers and other workers shall be the same. We're also busy with that. Nevertheless, the Temporary Agency Directive will give even greater status and recognition to the temporary agency, both by employers, employees and purchasers, which is good and very important. As the Prime Minister has also said – it has been a great deal of boast by the Prime Minister today, but we have to boast when there is reason to do so – we in favour of the directive are because we believe that it strengthens the rights of the temporary workers. In Norway today, which is on the sidelines of the major work challenges in parts of Europe, the introduction of the directive will be accompanied by and support for a common unity which is an important driving force in the fight for workers across Europe, which I actually believed was also important for the parties that are voting against it today. The party wants a decent working life, which also includes the staffing agency. That is why we support the agency directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1643	It is not really social dumping that is the main debate here today. It's the manning industry and its terms. As my party trap Røe Isaksen said from this pulpit a few minutes ago, the manning industry is an important player in Norwegian working life and contributes to the necessary flexibility by providing skilled labour in a short time. It is good that we now have equal treatment between permanent employees and temporary workers, and it is good that the Stortinget today provides the labour market with the means to put this into practice. But when I read the proposition and parts of the setting, and I hear some of the people who have taken the word so far in this case, it would be thought that the manning industry was packed with snuff, that Norwegian manning companies barely did anything else than try to figure out how they could use their workers in the worst possible way. Of course, this is not the case either in the manpower industry or in other parts of the world of work. Are there exceptions? Yes, of course it does, and in some industries there are more exceptions than in others. But it may seem that what government parties are doing is almost cutting everyone over one comb. They talk Norwegian employers in general, and Norwegian staffing in particular. However, in the Committee's position, it is clear that the objective of the implementation of the temporary agency directive is to ensure equal treatment of staff in the personnel industry and to recognise recruitment agencies as employers. Initially – or at its core weight, as the Council of State has just formulated – the manning industry is also a serious player. Our goal is to strengthen this and make life as difficult as possible for the unprofessional exceptions, and make it easier to use those seriously. If it turns out that the industry as such had major problems with this, we have the public service agency for exactly this kind of situation. Stronger instruments could then be legitimately used in general. But just as we don't arrest people who haven't done anything to be the leader, neither should we use the strongest instruments we have in our working life, against an industry where social dumping is not likely. On that basis, I would like to explain why the right here chooses to vote as we do in this case. The right supports the principle of non-discrimination – there should be no doubt about it. We support the inclusion not only of wages, but also of working hours, breaks, holidays and holidays, etc. We also support the responsibility of the lessee to ensure that the lessee's working time does not exceed the legal framework, as it is the lessee who often has the most direct impact on the lessee from day to day. It is also necessary, in order to comply with the principle of non-discrimination, for the lessee to be obliged to inform the agency of his terms and conditions of employment so as to enable them to pay his employees the remuneration which the principle of non-discrimination requires them to have. It is also reasonable for the lessee himself to be able to demonstrate that the employer complies with the principle of non-discrimination. All of this, of course, presupposes strict rules of professional secrecy. What we react to and will therefore vote against are the exceptional measures being taken, despite the fact that there are no indications that this is generally an industry characterised by unprofessionalism and social dumping. It introduces joint and several liability, which means that the lessee can be responsible for something that is not right, without having done something wrong himself. There is an exceptional measure that does not exist anywhere else in the world of work, outside the generalised industries. In the generalised industries, it has only been introduced after extensive social dumping has been documented, but this has been done before. Manning companies will have to uncover themselves, not for trustees in their own company, but for trustees from completely different companies. It's another measure that we don't see outside the generalized industries. In addition, the right is critical of the obligation to discuss, which we regard as an unnecessary interference with corporate governance. In addition, the right is concerned that the exemption regulations that have been duly incorporated into the Directive are being implemented. You are in a completely different situation as an employee if you have a guaranteed wage between jobs. Therefore, the right considers that the exemption provision could be applied to this group — of course with a reasonable definition of the concept of guarantee pay. Finally, the right is also concerned with the continuation of the tripartite model, and is therefore of the opinion that it is important to facilitate the negotiation by nation-wide organisations of solutions that meet the main objective of the law. We have to trust our nation-wide organizations so that we can leave the details to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1673	Today, we are going to debate two issues relating to the temporary employment and rental sector. I would like to comment on Mr Graham's comments, which point out that it is difficult to distinguish between the serious and the unprofessional, and that when we want to do some action, we are all cutting over one comb. That's not right. These measures are just being implemented because there has been a relatively large proportion of the unprofessional users. First, this happened elsewhere in Europe, then it came to Norway. Therefore, action was needed. The proportion increased, the trade movement gave clear signals that there were problems here, and that requires doing something. It is true that labour hiring and hiring are legal and that the companies involved have come to stay in Norway. With the growth in this industry, the growth in social dumping is also coming. That's the experience, and that's why we have to grab hold of it. My friend was cancelled during the financial crisis – in the middle of life, with houses, cars and bills to be paid. Although she responded to one ad after another, it did not result in work. Visits were made to jobs and travel back and forth to some interviews. Eventually, the solution was a temporary agency. Pretty quickly she got vicariates: one month here, three months there, one year somewhere else. More uncertain and more unpredictable than regular work, but the work was a good confirmation of her professional competence, and she met other people, and not least she was paid – not as before, but paid. It turned out that after 750 hours as an employee in the last 12 months she was paid for moving holidays. For her, it meant that months of March, April and May became rather tight financially. Weekends are being exploited. Some employers do not follow the rules of the game that exist today, and temporary workers are often in a desperate situation. They know that they have weaker job protection, they know that they are more exposed to injustice, but they must have an income. There is a very distorted relationship of power between the individual and most employers. However, the majority of employers are honest, and they handle temporary workers in a good way. Nevertheless, employers are not acting in a good way and are simply conscious and exploitative in social dumping. We cannot be aware of this in Norway in 2012. The Labour Party takes seriously the concerns, to which the Council of State explained very well, and which the trade union movement has pointed out. Nevertheless, we have come to the conclusion that the agency directive can be implemented. We are sure that the provisions of the Working Environment Act can apply, and that is also an absolute prerequisite for our commitment to implementing the Directive. There has been a comprehensive and clear public change of words on this matter. Now we're going to gather about the important values that the labour movement and the government parties have in common: equal relationships for employees, no exploitation of workers, a safe working environment and a living wage. For the Workers' Party always have – and will always – fixed employment as the rule. For the Workers' Party, good cooperation is the rule. We want a good and decent working life, and therefore we present these three important issues: the employment message, the action package and the agency directive. This is a good framework for content. The instruments of the action package will make non-discrimination effective and will be the responsibility of the parties to follow-up. These measures shall not become dwindling legal provisions. These measures shall ensure compliance with the principle of non-discrimination. Solidarity is a rigorous and effective instrument to ensure non-discrimination. Transparency ensures transparency and the ability to control and is based on the trust selection system we have. These instruments shall receive the Right Party and the Advance Party in order to implement them. One might wonder if it is a response to the mild and moderate labour policy that Right argues for, or whether it is a pretense of the same answer that Right Ansgar Gabrielsen had – since we are in the historical corner – when the trade movement and the left side really spoke in large words, under the Bondevik II government, about the brutalization of working life: that there were no more tools in the toolbox. To the right, we say that we stand still in labour policy. No, we're going forward. Today, we are introducing instruments that do not put workers in Norway in a position where they can be easily exploited. This renewal and improvement is probably a sign that we are following in time, and that we are taking seriously the threats faced by workers in Norway. The working party will now closely monitor the results and their implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1699	Going to work is actually incredibly fun. We have gradually received documentation that says that it is good for health too. It even works better than a good deal of medicine, so this I think we should call about, all of us. Maybe we can bring down some health costs? Fortunately, the general rule in Norwegian working life is that when we go to work, it is in regular form: we have regular jobs and fixed times, and that is regulated. But to some it may be unpredictable. They're temporary workers. The firmness and security in relation to when to go to work, and the job to do, are not as easy. But I think even for them it's healthful to be at work. Although the general rule is fixed positions, our society will continue to depend on temporary workers. In fact, the public and private sectors cannot go around without being able to put pressure on them when something has become a challenge, for example. are disease and maternity leave. But the frames around it to be incubators have to be clear and clear. We have used tripartite cooperation to ensure that the framework we have for workers is developed by those directly affected and that the authorities monitor it. The challenge to the vicarbrese is the flow of employees, that those who work as temporary workers do so over relatively short periods of time, possibly in different jobs. This means that it is difficult to get to the job of participation, protection services, follow-up to health, the environment and safety – the direct contact and dialogue with the employer. On the employer side, however, relatively few large agencies are well organised. There's another imbalance in this area. This means that we have to work to make sure that these employees may have a stronger protection around their working day, their working conditions, their pay terms, than the others in Norwegian employment. That is why we are introducing an even more powerful package of measures, which seems even stronger than it does for other parts of Norwegian business. Most of us relate to temporary workers at different times – in kindergarten, in school, in the nursing home. The ring vicars or temporary agency employees, as I said earlier, contribute to the fact that our society is going around, and that it's working. The Temporary Agency Directive ensures that we are responsible for the employer’s side much more than what has been tradition until now. Equal treatment of lessees' own employees creates better working conditions and joint and several liability provides better security of income. These measures should, as I said, ensure that working conditions are good. But everyone in this room has heard stories about hired workers working too long shifts, with very low pay, without adequate HMS training or follow-up. This is unacceptable, and that's why we're doing these measures and this job. But we have to challenge the parties on one more thing: I started by saying that it is difficult and demanding to keep the organisational requirements of the employees up in this industry. That challenge I am sending to the trade unions around the country. Take responsibility! It's a good part that goes to their very first job, and that's when they might know the least about the laws and regulations in the world of work. They really need the support of the trade unions and trade unions to ensure that their daily lives are good, that wages are timely and that they can get a good start on their professional career.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1720	We see an economic situation in Europe with mass unemployment and deregulation of labour markets, where temporary employment flows. If we go to a country like Germany, we will see that almost every other job created is of a temporary nature. The concern in the trade union movement about what this can also mean for our working life is very real. The concern the trade union movement expresses is to listen carefully, because they're out in the field, where reality is. This is about the balance of power in the Norwegian labour market, the very floor plan: how are we going to regulate this with permanent employment? I have gone a long way before I join this decision today. What has been crucial for me is the broad, complete package of measures proposed by the government, in cooperation with the employee organisations, and the statement we make at the same time that Norwegian labour law can be maintained. Equal treatment between temporary workers and permanent workers is important, correct and good. The European agency directive gives us a broad majority in this room for a fantastically important principle: equal pay for equal work. But it doesn't just help to adopt nice, well-meaning principles if we don't have the tool we need to put them into life. The temporary workers and temporary workers in the Norwegian labour market experience different employment situations. Some are with serious employers, others are not. The massive immigration of labour that we have – which is fantastic, and which means that we can solve tasks in society that we would not otherwise have done – is a major challenge for the entire Norwegian working life model. There is also a lack of knowledge about the rights you have, that you are in a position to work where the balance of power has tipped roughly at the employer, especially if you don't even speak the same language. The fact that the right-hand side today rejects solidarity and transparency really undermines the possibility that the principle of non-discrimination comes into real life. I do not see this as a dramatic instrument. How are we going to be able to detect discrimination, if we don't cooperate with the trusted ones, who have the opportunity to check it out at the workplace they themselves are? Why is it that the right side really invites those unprofessionals to continue as before, because you're not willing to use tools that tighten up the businesses that might not be as serious? Both solidarity and transparency are essential for this to become a reality. A lot of words have been said in a heated debate on this matter. I want to give some credit to my party colleagues in the labour and social fraction and to Minister of Labour Hanne Inger Bjurstrom, and I would like to say very clearly that there is no reason to doubt their integrity. Today we stand together in the fight for the future working life. The red-greens stand together, and together with the employee organisations, we can meet the enormous challenges that actually await us in the future. There are unresolved questions – for example: pension, which is important for the public sector, and with which we have to continue working. Pension is an essential part of the package for public employees. But I also want to say that it's not just about pay and working conditions. In fact, it is a matter of whole industries, such as industry. the construction industry, which is now experiencing a shortage of apprentices, and which is struggling to get enough professionals. We cannot stand in the situation that when the immigrants leave, we stand back without professionals. It's also about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1739	It's a very important social-democratic contribution government and state council Bjurstrøm today presents to the Stortinget, and we have to deal with it. It is about both the directive and what is called the package of measures. We have had a debate for many hours today, where we have debated the organisation and necessity and importance of working life. I'm referring to it and I'm not coming back to this right now. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget today that this stability that we have had in Norwegian working life can be threatened by abuse of temporary workers. I underline the term ‘abuse’, because it is of course so that any modern, dynamic working life must have temporary workers, and the temporary workers play an important role in a modern working life. It's a natural thing to say, but I'm still saying it: there's no one thinking of banning temporary employment agencies and their business. It's a legitimate business, and in many contexts it's a sensible business. It is not that we, who are from the Workers' Party, believe that that industry is unique – in order to use the word of a representative – a sloppy industry. No, it's characterized by a lot of seriousness, but it also has a lot of challenging features. What I am a little surprised at in this discussion – and I have followed it closely for many years and in many ways – is not just what the right parties are saying here in the Chamber, but that is how the NHO is positioned in relation to the Directive, and what arguments they are using. I don't understand that the NHO doesn't understand that they too will be a losing party if you don't get control of the developments we see in parts of the world of work, related to the use of temporary workers. It will really undermine the tripartite cooperation – which has been a review theme in this discussion today – but it will also undermine the position of the NHO. After all, no one is serving, at least not the NHO, because they represent the serious part of Norwegian working life. I think everyone agrees on that. If challenged, it is clear that they too will be undermined. I want to say from this pulpit – I guess no one listens to me in this context, but they should take note of it anyway – that they really should see the danger and realize that we are in the same boat when it comes to dealing with serious working life in the future if you don't manage this development. Then I have from my point of view – as it is sometimes called – a very need to also say very clearly that we cannot accept abuse of temporary workers in any way. This is a national phenomenon, but it is also an international phenomenon. The world of work is increasingly internationalised, and those we can call non-resident labour are the most vulnerable in these relationships. I notice that there are many people who talk the same way I do now, who use the same arguments and have the same understanding and analysis, but who still believe that we do not need the directive – that we can take this nationally. It's completely formal, of course, that's right, that's clear. But from the point of view of my party, we are responsible for international development. No one should think that we can handle this only nationally, if it's not handled internationally. What has been done within the EU in this area is in this way very good. It's nice that there's a majority in the Storing to join this. The last thing I'm going to say is that we've seen what's in the special package of measures, the additional packages, and it's primarily about solidarity – a fantastic decision that the Stortinget is going to make in an hour or two. It is really creating a work environment legislation that follows in time, that takes the challenge, and that is necessary for us to be able to follow up the intentions of the directive in a good and correct manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1754	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1758	Today, we are dealing with, among other things: the agency directive. Like most other representatives who have been up here, it is considered to be positive for Norway. That assessment is non-consistent with an overall trade union movement. Let me first say: SV agrees with the decision on non-discrimination between hired and permanent employees. It is important for a good Norwegian working life. But equal treatment and the good package of measures can be adopted without having to support the agency directive, i.e. without having to support what we consider to be negative, namely the intentions contained in the Directive, that it is desirable to promote and extend the possibility of hiring and temporary work in addition to what is currently permitted. SV believes that the Norwegian model, based on fixed-term employment, is important for stability, quality and participation in the workplace. Equal treatment of hired and permanent staff is important. Life as an employee of a staffing agency is not a dance of roses. It's unpredictable, and it's unstable. It is not legal not to know when to go to work or when to work. It is not always possible not to plan either everyday life, family life or leisure time – and not even to be able to plan the job. When the so-called recruitment agencies, who want to sell their services, advertise that they can provide labour at two hours' notice, there are actually people who ‘are’ these services. There are people like me and many others, who almost have to let go of everything they have in their hands, and run there the temporary employment agency or the agency asking them to run. People need money, and they depend on getting a salary on the payday. But it's not as right to say at home: my girl, I'm sorry, I can't follow you at the football game tonight. Sorry, friends, I can't be here tonight, because now I've got a guard, the temporary employment agency has got the job I can offer, and it's today. I just have to run, because I don't know when I get the next watch. There are many social and professional reasons for saying no to the agency directive. There are also many reasons for equality, and I would like to mention three. Some of the most vulnerable industries that can be hit hardest are heavy women’s jobs. These include: cleaning and service professions. Several of the women-dominated industries have very low levels of organisation. This means that for workers who are already very vulnerable, further weakening of the legal and contractual framework does not improve. Part-time is also often a major problem in these industries. With the increased use of temporary workers, it becomes more difficult to put in place the good measures for more complete use. I am afraid that the NHO will do what they have notified, and will promote the EU Court of Justice's work environment law, and that will not be good for Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1773	Article 4(b) of the agency directive 1 it's called: «The prohibitions and restrictions on the use of temporary work may be justified only in the general interest in particular by the protection of temporary workers and health and safety requirements at work or in the need to ensure the proper functioning of the labour market and to prevent abuse.» According to the Lawyers' Association, the NHO and a number of others' views, ‘general considerations’ do not imply that the legislation of the Work Environment Act § 14-12 can be maintained by law. In the work environment laws, it states, inter alia: fixed additions are the general rule for Norwegian working lives, and temporary workers are only to be used in special cases. It will be up to the Court of Justice of the European Union and not the Grand Duchy to decide whether Norway is able to maintain a standard of employment. The Temporary Agency Directive is part of the EU's policy for a cross-border labour market in Europe. In many professions, people feel the pressure on pay and working conditions. Since the Blaalid selection lifted restrictions on hiring labour in Norway at the end of the 1990s, strong forces in Norway have been working with the EU to change the conditions of labour force. Today, there are greater and growing income differences than before, between those who think the least, and those who think the most. At the same time, as a nation, we spend too much money. All in all, we're living over capacity, while more and more people are getting too little of their community resources. A society where more people have to take temporary work will give less authority. It will frame young people entering the housing market and reinforce an already alarming high debt ratio in households. The main objective of the red-green project is to call about the Community-Noreg. The Bondevik II government would lift its ban on temporary additions. The red-green government came to power and stopped the plans. Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in 2005 that lifting the restrictions we have in the law against temporary additions will give an A team and a B team, how weak groups end up on the B team. Our red-green defence of labour-environment law was solidarity. The acceptance of the temporary agency directive is to liberalise the labour market after an unsolvable reading that we red-green ourselves put a stop to when we won the 2005 elections. The followers of the directive think it will improve their dishes in some areas. The centre party thinks it should be up to Norwegian democracy to govern Norwegian employment. When there is a need to improve their shifts, Norway should make sure that it is done. We cannot sit and wait for solidarity to come from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1793	There have been very many good posts here today. I would particularly like to bring out the representative Tritenbergstien's posts, which I thought were very pointed and very good. The working party is busy calling around the employees' rights – that's something that everyone knows. That is why, when we took over in 2005, we reversed our civic proposals to weaken the work environment law. The Temporary Agency Directive will contribute to order in a sector that is often characterised by poor pay and working conditions. In fact, there are as many as 100,000 Norwegian and foreign workers added to this industry. The aim is – as many have said here – non-discrimination, where the hired person or temporary worker must have at least the same pay and working conditions as he/she would have been appointed in the enterprise. The representatives in the Chamber then disagree on the impact of the directive being introduced. In my view, the pay in the temporary employment agency will go up, as they will have to pay the same as if the person were assigned to the company. Then, several companies would automatically choose to assign themselves instead of using a temporary agency. But then I have to admit that without the additional requirements, I would have been very sceptical about the implementation of the directive at all. The action package is a powerful and good tool that today's right-hand side votes down. I'll go into the measures a little bit: Introduction of joint and several liability. This means that tenants have joint and several responsibilities for the agency's obligation to pay equal pay. Yeah, it's the Working Party for the whole time. The law states that tenants are also responsible for the working time of the tenant. Yeah, it's the Working Party for the whole time. Negotiating obligation for the tenants with the trustees of the tenants. Yeah, that's a good suggestion. Information obligation on pay and working conditions between tenants, agency and agency staff. Yeah, that's a good suggestion. Collective search rights shall be evaluated. The register of temporary agencies shall be evaluated in 2012. Right of access for trustees in the letting agency. All these are good measures. As most have come along, there has been a discussion between parts of the employee organisations and the Labour Party on the implementation of this directive, but not on the package of measures – there we are 100 pst. Same as before. The action package was actually in its time a claim from the LO page. The biggest threat to workers' rights is, in fact, whether we get a government composed of the Right and the Progress Party in 2013, not the implementation of this directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1836	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1850	The rapporteur is not present in the Chamber and is unlikely to have the floor. The President thus gives the floor to the representative, Hilde Magnusson.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1853	The Committee's position is unanimous, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has tabled six proposals which the representative, Mr Hagesettes, is sure to include in his statement. The Workers' Party agrees that it is good that there will be changes in the construction case section of the Planning and Building Act. These changes will lead to less stringent technical requirements for measures on existing buildings than on entirely new ones. We think it makes sense, because many of the technical requirements for new buildings will simply not be possible to implement them on existing buildings. They will have no overall effect or will be disproportionately expensive. The requirements of the building technical regulation have changed significantly over time, and for older buildings there are major differences in the original quality requirements and the requirements currently being imposed. This applies not least to energy efficiency, availability and fire requirements. Today's law allows municipalities to approve a measure even if it does not meet all the technical requirements. We want the derogations to be simple to practice for the municipalities, and that it is practiced the same way. It is therefore appropriate to clarify the rules in this respect in a regulation. I want to clarify a couple of things from the government parties that we have also included in the comment. The discretionary conditions set out in the exemptions must all be met if the measure is to be authorised. So the three measures are cumulative. Compliance with current requirements must not entail disproportionate costs: that the measure is sound in order to ensure appropriate use and that the measure is necessary to ensure appropriate use. So all of these criteria have to be met. These are the discretionary conditions that will be clarified in the regulation. I think that this can lead to challenges in terms of the law's universal design requirements. The Ministry has not fully followed the reports of the Norwegian Handicap Association in that the universal design and availability requirements of TEK 10 are not to be waived in any circumstances. The legislative proposal points out that the exemption from the availability requirement and universal design shall only take place where the requirements have little meaning or it is disproportionately costly to follow them. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre state that this latter must be seen in the context of other universal design legislation, namely the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on the grounds of disability, and that a regulation is to be made for the legislative proposal we are dealing with today to clarify this point. There should be no emphasis here on a purely profitability assessment. Finally, I would like to stress that it is good that we make changes, so that our law does not seem unreasonable. In the situation we are in relative to housing, and the need for housing we have, it is also good that these changes come. I hope this can contribute to increased access to dwellings in existing buildings that can be rehabilitated or rebuilt.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1885	The President shall record that the President of the case is in the Chamber. Does Michael Tetzschner want the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1888	It is excellent when the Stortinget is ahead of its schedule. It may come as a surprise, even on a case rapporteur who has been very happy about this matter. This is a matter which has not brought about the great differences and deepening of contradictions within the Committee. In this way, we could just let the matter pass. But I think the matter gives rise to reflection on a few points. Firstly, the current Law on Planning and Building is very fresh, and you already have, after just over two years, a need to adjust the planning and building regulations to the practical reality. Now it is excellent to do this, but for some of us it is at the same time a symptom – with regard to the overall legislation relating to land disposal, and also the more technical building, which this matter is about – that one has gradually come into the situation that the best thing is going to be the enemy of the good. One wants – and policy has been made clear – to be able to legislate through the law. Then it turns out that these building regulations are not so excellent in terms of measures aimed at existing settlements, and then the department makes the assessment that we share that one must take on the reality that is, and so one has to relax a little on the requirements – and this is essentially the case – and that means that one can deviate from the ideal building regulations if one is in danger of not being able to make good use of the remainder. This is therefore both a safety criterion and a necessity criterion, while at the same time these technical regulations can also impose disproportionate costs on the owner of the house or the person responsible for the measure by meeting today's technical requirements. I allow myself to remind the assembly that in a similar case a similar retreat had to be made. Then I think of the decoration that came from the government even when it came to the ideal requirements, namely universal design – the requirement of absolute availability – which would also apply without exception to student homes. There it was that when student relations could demonstrate that this resulted in considerable costs and would actually prevent some student homes from becoming available to the students, it was so reasonable to come back with a 20 pst. rule, where one had a 100 pst. rule. I think there's more of this. So in this case – which might not invite the major revolution in structural regulations or the plan otherwise – we would say from our point of view that we see this matter as a symptom of having gone too far in detailed regulation through laws and regulations, so that the general, practical everyday life cannot exploit the housing resources we have. We live in a time when we should be more concerned about making use of the total housing resources and taking care not to impose such ideal requirements that homes, or buildings, are out of use because it becomes disproportionately expensive to meet the ideal requirements. We have a corporate culture here in the house to not support suggestions you could really think of supporting. The nice thing about it is that it doesn't have to be interpreted in the knowledge and wide when you don't join all the suggestions. On the right, however, we have come to the conclusion that we can vote in favour of the first three proposals of the Progress Party when the matter comes to the conclusion of voting. So we will not vote in favour of the motions for resolutions. 4, 5 and 6, and the seventh is a procedural proposal. I have thus clarified my view of the matter on the Right. I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Magnusson, who took the place of the case rapporteur in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1910	Now both the representative Magnusson and the spokesperson have spoken, and as has been said, there is no disagreement in the matter itself. The progress party also agrees on the set. We mean that what's suggested from the department is a step in the right direction, but it's too small a step. The background for this is that the Law on Planning and Building is far too complicated, it is far too detailed, and therefore, when you look at how it turns out in practice, you have to make a right in some areas. As I said, we thought it was good for a guy to fix something, but this is too little. What is the problem with the Law on Planning and Building is that he is too detailed – we also have regulations, we also have circulars – which make it hopeless to practice. The law becomes difficult to understand, there are many details to follow, and of course it will result in less and much more expensive buildings being built than if we had a simpler planning and building law. Now we are in the situation that housing prices are record high. There are also too few dwellings built around the country, especially in the densely built strata. One of the reasons for this is the detailed wealth and the detailed management that the municipalities have provided, but also that it is too difficult for builders to practice all the rules that are proposed. That's why we have some proposals that we initially had on our own in the Committee's position, namely that we want to simplify and liberalize, and we want to rewrite the entire Planning and Building Act to make it easier to understand and practice. We are fully convinced – and I believe that to the extent that everyone is a few – that if we had done so, we would have built more dwellings, and we would also have reduced the cost of the produced dwellings. I want to say that I'm very happy that the Right also follows us, at least on our first three proposals. We thought that was very positive and very reasonable. And then I hope that there might be even more to it than the Right that joins it. We'll see that now when more people have the word, and when we come to voting. Finally, I would like to formally present the proposals that the Progress Party is behind – including those that the Right Party has just joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1927	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1930	This case concerns two amendments to the building case part of the Planning and Building Act. One concerns more modest technical requirements for measures on existing buildings compared to when the whole is new. The second concerns the legal competence of municipalities to allow a measure that does not meet all the technical requirements normally imposed on a measure and the discretionary elements to be emphasised when the municipality permits exemptions from the requirements. In the case of new buildings, the universal design requirement entails very small additional costs, estimated between 1 and 2 pst. Therefore, the increase in the price of housing is not due to the universal design requirement, due to the market situation. For old buildings it will often be so costly that the measure is not initiated at all. I'm glad these changes are coming, and although there are relatively limited changes, there are absolute changes pointing in the right direction. The regulation provides for exemptions from the universal design and accessibility requirement where the construction works would otherwise not have been refurbished or where the cost of making the construction universally designed and accessible would be so high that the action would not be implemented in practice. The proposals mean that exemptions from technical requirements can be granted to a greater extent than at present. This will lead to unreasonable demands falling away, ensuring that old houses are cleaned up and used, rather than being left empty or used for e.g. additional storage space. Increased rehabilitation of older houses will give us a more energy-efficient building mass. An absolute requirement for which no derogation can be granted in any way is the requirement of safety — i.e. fire safety and design safety. Although I have a great deal of understanding of Norway's Handicap Association's demand that they do not want an exception, I think it is right to open it up by rebuilding existing buildings. The changes will lead to the upgrading of several old buildings, and the standard of these buildings will be raised, including the standard of universal design. There is no particular help in that a new addition is wheelchair accessible, if the entrance part and the rest of the house are in any case not available to wheelchair users. In order to be granted an exemption, these three criteria must be met: Compliance with current technical requirements must entail disproportionate costs. The change in use/conversion must be appropriate in order to ensure appropriate use. The change in use/conversion must be necessary to ensure appropriate use. Exemptions from availability requirements and the universal design requirement shall only be made where the requirements have little meaning or it would be disproportionately costly to comply with them. I am also pleased that the legislation is made clearer in terms of construction in danger areas. Although bans on the construction of new buildings are introduced in an area due to an increased risk of slipping or flooding, there is no logic that those who still live – legally – in existing dwellings in the area cannot build a porch or, for example, a porch. A carport. Unfortunately, this is a very relevant issue in my municipality of Holtålen, where we have got new flood maps after the flood last year. Me and the Center Party hope that these changes will speed up the rehabilitation of old buildings, and that even more people will find it interesting to facilitate rentals in owner-occupied dwellings. There would have been a crush on a pressed rental market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1959	In the proposal under consideration today, a permit is proposed for the regulations of § 31-2 of the Planning and Building Act that will apply to actions on existing construction works. It may be unclear which rules apply when someone wants to build their house. Technical requirements are not always met because they are primarily created for newly built applications. A central purpose of the proposition is to obtain permission for regulations to apply to the requirements only if they have a real effect on the construction works and are not for cost-requiring purposes. In general, legislative changes should contribute to a more flexible attitude to work on existing buildings. The rules will mainly clarify and clarify the current interpretation and practice of the law. According to the Law on Planning and Building § 31-2 first paragraph, all requirements for new buildings also apply to work that must be done on existing construction works. The proposal for a new fifth paragraph of Section 31-2 allows for regulations so that we can adapt technical requirements to work on existing construction works. The starting point must be that the requirements must fill a function and have an effect. Energy requirements in case of remediation and minor additions shall result in the construction works becoming more energy efficient. Those rules shall also take into account that technical requirements shall not entail unreasonable costs. Following a proposal for a change to the same paragraph, in the fourth paragraph, the municipality may grant exemptions from technical requirements following a concrete assessment. Under current planning and building law, municipalities can grant building permits even if not all technical requirements are met. The requirement is then that there are disproportionate costs of complying with the requirements, that work is justified and that the change is necessary to ensure proper use. The proposal for a change in the fourth paragraph opens up regulations that clarify the contents of these outlines. The regulation of the new home in the fourth subparagraph will also clarify an exception to ensure that the standard of existing construction works in areas at risk is preserved. That's an important point, which also the speaker before me clarified. Municipalities will be allowed to allow measures in hazardous areas. This may be important to ensure that the occupants maintain a good standard on the dwelling, even if a new home cannot be allowed. I hope that it will clarify some of the questions that the municipalities have had in this area Regulations following the new homes will be important for the owners of the houses, by preventing unnecessary and costly requirements when the construction works are to be rehabilitated. They will also be important to rehabilitate the building stock in Norway, in order to ensure that unnecessary farming requirements do not prevent such necessary rehabilitation. All of a sudden, I think these homes provide the basis for clearer frameworks for the proper exploitation of the existing building stock, without the important consideration of the individual and society being set aside. The representative Tetzschner thinks I go too far in regulating in regulations what is expressed as ‘ideal requirements’. I think it is the government's honour that, after the law has come into force, we closely follow and implement the measures and changes that are necessary and as one sees, through the practice in the municipalities, are necessary, in order to have a more flexible handling and simplification of the legislation and thus to ensure that those who are going to use the legislation, both the municipalities and those who are looking for action, get a simpler everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1978	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e1992	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2001	The Government has presented a proposal for a legislative amendment that allows the establishment of a national core journal. There is cross-political agreement on the importance of putting in place such a tool that can contribute to increased patient safety by providing rapid access to correct and up-to-date information on the patient. The introduction of the national core journal will be a comprehensive project which will have to go through several phases. Several countries have tried out different core journal solutions, and some countries are currently using nationwide solutions. A core file shall not replace the regular record-keeping, but shall be a reference, a processing register, in which a sample of data sets obtained from different sources can be compiled and made available to health professionals who need access to such information in the performance of their work. It has been raised beyond doubt that a good and up - to - date register will be of great benefit to healthcare professionals in the treatment process and thus benefit the patient. Everyone may agree that if someday they need immediate help, it is important that the health professionals who accept you have access to critical information about you, such as yours. drug use, allergies, etc. The challenge of the legislative proposal put forward by the government is that there is only one framework law to be established, i.e. that the department is given very broad powers to define essential matters by regulation. The party of progress is very sceptical about such a procedure. We are talking here about a register that is identity-identifiable, which will contain the most sensitive medical information about the individual, all the contact he has had with the Norwegian health service. When it is the government that is always responsible for defining the purpose of the register, who should be responsible for the processing of data, whether or not the register should be consent-based and who should have access to the information contained in the register, the Progress Party believes that the Storting as a legislative assembly gives away too much power – power that can be transferred to privacy. The Government claims that it will regulate in regulation that information contained in the core file should not be divulged to employers, insurance companies or prosecution authorities or courts, even if the data subject agrees. The challenge is that such a regulation can be amended by a new government within a relatively short period of time. The Progress Party wants such restrictions to be reflected in the legislative text, so that a legislative change process will be needed whose purpose and content and use of data are to be changed. In this process, a concrete value-added assessment must then be carried out against the disadvantages of privacy considerations. The government will open up research on the data in the core journal. The party considers that there may be a significant utility in deriving anonymised statistics from the core journal, for example: to follow the treatment chain. However, we are of the opinion that, in a piloting phase, it is not appropriate to open up to research. The information contained in the core journal shall be obtained from a number of different registers of different data quality. It in itself suggests that there is a reduced utility in opening up research on nuclear journal data from the first day. The Progress Party therefore believes that the government must come back to Stortinget after the piloting work is over and the system is ready for implementation on a country-by-country basis. Only then does one know what data is available in the core journal. We also know which data are contained in various other primary sources and will therefore be subject to the rules on the consent and ex-ante evaluation of the regional committees for medical and medical research ethics. The main and essential issue in this case is the question of whether consent is to be required from the patient to establish a core file for him. The Government Parties agree that no consent shall be required, but only as a right of reservation. In return, the government says that consent should be required from the patient to look at the data sets in the core journal. But here too, there will be a derogation from the consent of, for example: an immediate help situation. The party of progress believes this is a slightly backwards approach. If consent is required in the establishment of the core file, this consent may also involve access to the necessary information for medical personnel with a need to do so. The Progress Party is concerned that the government, with its majority power, is now pushing through the establishment of a nuclear record with such significant weaknesses in privacy and security that it can lead to growing reluctance and scepticism among the population, which means that the project with the establishment of a nuclear record is not successful. That would be a shame. With this, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is involved in promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2018	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2021	The size is now given the opportunity to take an important decision; to establish a national core file. A core journal, as proposed, shall act as a central activity-wide health record, proposed in a new section 6(d) of the Health Register Act. The law shall provide a general framework for the core journal, including: key issues related to the purpose, consent and reservation are addressed. There is a broad consensus in Stortinget that we should establish a national core journal. The core journal will be very important for the treatment of patients in the future. Today, if you become acutely ill, and this happens in a completely different place from where you usually stay and have your regularity, there is no way for a treating health professional to obtain the necessary information about the sick person. In given situations, there may in fact be information that is essential for life or death. The core journal will also be important when treating patients across levels and businesses in the health sector. The core file will contain basic information essential to provide immediate help, such as: the updated list of medicinal products, critical information on allergies, implants and other conditions which may be relevant for the provision of good and proper treatment. The Ministry proposes that national nuclear records be established without the consent of the patient, based on a reservation right. Government parties agree. I'm also glad that Right, actually, supports us in this. A reservation system will both serve the purpose of the core journal and take into account the individual’s right to have their own health information. Reservation rights mean that individuals may oppose the registration and processing of health data concerning them in the health register. In this context, it is important that the reservation system is well informed about, and that the consequences for those who choose to stand outside are also made known. Then I would like to stress that as a general rule, the use of the national core file should be based on consent and that consent rules should be drawn up in the light of the applicable legislation. The proposal provides that the King of the Council of States may provide for derogations from the requirement of consent where necessary for the provision of sound health care. This will primarily apply to healthcare professionals, who usually have access to medical records and data, including the acute medical chain, specialist healthcare, care and care services. However, the patient will have the right to oppose such access, which is also described by the Health Care Professional Act. If additional groups in the health sector are to be given access to the core file, this shall be done on the basis of explicit consent. The main objective of national nuclear records is better patient treatment, but, like the ministry, government parties do not want a ban on using data from the nuclear record for research purposes. Good, relevant data are important for research, which in turn can provide better patient treatment. Strict requirements are imposed on health research, with the agreement as a general rule, and with careful prior evaluation of the various research initiatives of the Regional Committees for Medical and Health Research Ethics. A good and comprehensive ICT structure is important to ensure patient safety and privacy. The government has already done a considerable amount of work on e-health in Norway, including, among others: electronic prescriptions, and the improvement and digitisation of health records. I am pleased that high information security and access control requirements are to be imposed in connection with the establishment of a national core file. The Ministry proposes several measures to ensure confidentiality, integrity, accessibility and quality. Detailed provisions shall also be laid down in the operating regulations, the processing of health data, the controller, the rules on deletion, access and access control and the rights of the patient. Then it is an objective that individuals should in the long term be given the opportunity to receive an automatic electronic warning if their core journal is opened by healthcare professionals. This is a practical and appropriate follow-up to the requirement that patients have the right to access the log of openings of their own nuclear records. The establishment of a national core file could both contribute to better and safer patient treatment and, at the same time, to greater effectiveness. In the long term, it could also entail significant cost and resource savings in a large and demanding health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2042	First, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's statement and say that the Right share most of his assessments. The issue we are dealing with today concerns the legal regulation of the possibility of introducing a system that I believe most Norwegian patients already exist in the Norwegian healthcare system, namely that one has access to important information about the patient, for example. in case of emergency hospitalisation. That's not the case, and that's why I think many patients are also surprised when they discover this. The issue we are dealing with today is therefore important, because a legal basis for a better and safer healthcare system where patient information will be an important part of ensuring patient safety. But this, of course, also raises some privacy issues. In many ways, privacy was previously ensured through, among others. prohibition by law of cross-legal entities information. At that time, the idea was essentially to restrict access to the entire patient archive. Now, in many ways, technological development has made it necessary for one to think anew in terms of privacy, not least in relation to the technological possibilities now available to protect the information of each patient from transparency, while at the same time the possibility of accessing the information is present when it is vital. That is why we in the Right are pleased that an overall committee in the comments, for example. states that, in the long term, it must be a goal for all patients to receive electronic notification of the time when healthcare professionals have been in and have looked at the patient’s core file. In this way, each patient will be able to ensure that no neighbors, family or other snorkelling in the patient’s records or information. Nevertheless, the law involves quite a number of difficult balances. The most difficult balance for the Right has been the greatest disagreement in the case, namely whether the core file should be based on a right of reservation or consent. Of course, our starting point would have been consent, which is what gives the best privacy. However, consent will require that all patients included in the nuclear record should have some contact with the healthcare system in order to be able to actively choose to enter the nuclear record. This will in reality mean that the core journal will not act as an instrument for health care in very many years. Then the interest among health professionals who are going to use the core journal will drop very quickly in terms of just using it. We are afraid that the consent requirement will in reality mean that it may not ever be possible to obtain an operating core file – at least not for a very long time. Therefore, we have concluded that we support the proposal to base the nuclear record on a reservation right, but a reservation right where we are also very clear that patients need good and sufficient information, and have the opportunity to reserve the right to participate in the nuclear record. It is also very important to highlight the fact that it is a pilot project that is now to be launched. We see the rationale that the pilot project has a national law at the bottom. But, of course, we share the rapporteur's objections, that there is too much in this period that is left to regulatory work, which is absolutely essential issues related to the core journal. For the Right, it is clear that when the pilot period is over, we need to have a significantly more thorough review of what should be privacy considerations associated with this. Not least part of the conditions currently imposed by the government should be incorporated into law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2061	I would first like to refer to the rapporteur's statement, which I fully agree with and agree with. The introduction of the national core file is an important measure to improve the effectiveness and safety of patient treatment. As it is now, for example, due to 5-10 pst. by the insertions in the Internal Medical Department of the incorrect use of medicinal products. Not only does this have serious consequences for individual patients, but there is also a poor use of resources at community level. A prerequisite for the national core file is that it contains few and correct information. As pointed out by several hearing bodies, only necessary and relevant information should be included. The Government proposes that national core file be established for all citizens of the country, with reservation possibility. Consent for the use of the information, which has been submitted by others, shall be provided. The government claims that, in practice, it will not be possible to implement the nuclear record solution as intended, unless you choose the right to reserve rather than consent. This is an important argument, but several heavy hearing bodies nevertheless call for active consent instead of reservation, including the Medical Association, the Psychological Association and the Data Protection Authority. The Christian People's Party believes that even if consent is to be required for the use of information in the core journal, this is not good enough. This is justified by the fact that there are a number of exceptions to asking patients for consent. Among other things, all healthcare professionals, both in the specialist health service and in the primary health service, should have access to the core records without having to go the way of consent. In view of the professional neutrality of the Interaction Reform, a high number of health professionals could potentially have a so-called treatment right of access to the core journal. I believe that this is a threat to privacy. Only those professional groups that have a direct need to know about the patient’s medications and allergies and to have an overview of past diseases should have access to the nuclear record. If some occupational groups had been legislated, e.g. doctors, nurses, pharmacists and dentists, having access rights, the Christian People's Party had seen it as less problematic to introduce reservation rights rather than consent. There must be serious professional reasons why health professionals should have access to the core journal. There is also a point that according to the government, the core file is likely to contain very comprehensive information. Several hearing bodies point out that it may become too extensive. The last data to be stored is still unclear, this will be handled by the government through regulations. A reservation-based solution is likely to provide the most resourceful means of blocking and reserving itself from the use of nuclear records. Those who, on the other hand, often need it the most, and who often need help from many health professionals, will not have the same opportunity to get involved in what nuclear journals mean for them, and thus be able to make a real choice. So, as the nuclear journal solution is now sketched, the Christian People's Party must be in favour of a consent-based solution. If a smaller number of health professionals had access to the core journal and it had a narrower content, the Christian People's Party could also agree to reservation rights. In this case, there is a need for medical care for the patient, and the patient’s privacy that must weigh heavily, not for healthcare professionals. During the examination of this in the Committee, I have repeatedly tried to clarify the government parties: What do they mean by ‘serving needs’ staff — in a local government sector where we currently have professional neutrality, and where many people with deserving needs may also be staff without formal education or without authorisation? I have not yet received an answer. And that's not even once I've asked, but more. When so much of the law is unclear and most areas have to be laid down, and when we are still going through a piloting phase, it is quite incomprehensible to me that the government is opposed to the opposition's proposal to come back to Stortinget with a new case after the piloting period. In my opinion, excluding Storting's great minority in such an important matter is both unwise and arrogant, and I would ask the Minister of Health that she think about this and look at it again. It is also highly uncertain whether there are adequate IT solutions that can meet the technological and data protection challenges that the core journal will address.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2087	Only a brief explanation of vote: the left has long been in favour of the development of a so-called core journal, where vital information can be recorded. The left has for the same time been concerned with the establishment of such a journal, so that it is clear that only vital information is recorded. The left considers it essential that individual patients themselves have control over what information is exchanged and recorded. The Left therefore supports proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, that health information can only be recorded and processed in a nuclear record subject to the consent of the data subject. I would like to stress that a core journal could contain very sensitive information, and that there may be many who will have access to this journal. For the left, it is of course that consent is required to create a core file. I would also like to inform you that the Left will support the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3, and that we support the reasons of the opposition parties for these proposals, without going into any detail about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2096	I think it is positive that all the parties in Stortinget agree that a core journal should be established. The Government is now proposing a new provision in the Health Register Act which provides for the establishment of a national core journal. The proposal will increase patient safety by providing a better basis for decision-making on health care and preventing damage to the patient as a result of, for example: mismedication. National core journals shall contribute to meeting the need for rapid and secure access to correct and up-to-date information in the healthcare sector. The establishment of a national core journal is a major project that will need to be developed in several phases. The aim is that the first phase will be available during 2013. Several countries have tried solutions with nuclear records. Countries have chosen different approaches and approaches. The solutions are, in my opinion, not directly applicable in Norway, but the experience is valuable for our work as well. National core file will provide health professionals with access to a limited set of necessary and relevant health information compiled from different data sources. Only healthcare professionals with service needs shall have direct electronic access to the system, without prejudice to activity limits. The information shall also be available to the patient. The core journal shall not contain the patient’s complete medical history. Nor shall it replace the ordinary patient record. However, the core file will provide health professionals with a significantly better information base in unplanned contact with healthcare. It will also benefit in several scheduled patient courses. The adoption of patient rights and privacy is central to the proposal. The core file is established without the patient's consent. Nevertheless, participation will be voluntary by giving the patient the right to make a reservation. There is no possibility of reserving the inclusion of individual information in the record – for patient safety reasons. However, it is open that the entire file or individual information can be blocked against transparency. In my opinion, the right of reservation and the possibility of blocking individual information against transparency will ensure that the individual’s right of self-determination is properly respected. The core file must be experienced as a useful tool with relevant and necessary information. Only healthcare professionals have a current treatment relationship with the patient, which can provide access to information in the core journal. The use of the information itself shall, as a general rule, be based on the consent of the individual patient. However, an authorisation to provide for derogations has been proposed. The Health Register Act gives the data subject the right of access to personal data. The patient is also allowed to access the log. The same right of access is also proposed for patients with nuclear records. The information contained in the national core file will mainly reflect the primary source. If the data subject wishes to correct or delete data in the core file, this must, as a general rule, be done in the primary source. The King of the Council of State may provide detailed provisions for the establishment, operation and processing of health data, including the right to block data. It is proposed to lay down certain specific restrictions on access to use. This applies, inter alia, to: employers and insurance companies. However, no prohibition on the use of the data for research purposes has been proposed. Research is an important societal interest that can result in better health care. Such activities are strictly regulated, inter alia: in the Health Research Act. The general rule is the requirement for the consent of the individual and prior approval of the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Sciences. Establishing a national core journal is an important step towards improving patient safety in Norway and ultimately saving lives. Overall, the proposal allows patients to control their own health information and to exercise their right to self-determination in a good way. I am pleased that a majority of the committee supports the government's proposal for a legal basis for the establishment of such a core journal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2126	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2130	The progress party wants me to be able to give my consent as a person to create and use data in a core journal while I am healthy and up-to-date. The government parties will not until I e.g. is on a stretcher and is ill, with severe pain, I shall agree that health professionals have access to my health information. Does the Minister of Health think that this is a sensible solution in terms of so-called informed consent? Would not the Minister of Health himself prefer to give his consent while she is healthy and up?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2137	I believe that the proposal we are making is the most appropriate in order to achieve what you want to achieve with a nuclear record. I think in a way that the problem is put a little on my head, because that is because this information is based on information contained in the individual patient records, whether it's in a regular doctor's office or it's in a hospital. It's not new information, it's the compilation of them, and it's just the most necessary information that, in its ultimate consequence, should enable you to save lives, which is to be collected in the core journal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2142	The right supports the start of a national core file as a pilot before it is established as a national programme. However, there are some unresolved questions: the contents of the core file, information, operation, exemption from consent, patient rights, etc., that have been discussed by several. The Government proposes that a number of important decisions on scope and organisation should be laid down. In our opinion, this should have been done by decision in Stortinget. The opposition parties have put forward a proposal that states that we consider the proposition to be a temporary law in connection with the piloting process. I would like to ask whether the Minister of Health will not come back with a case to Stortinget for a permanent change in the law after the piloting period has been completed and evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2149	The provision in the Health Register Act that is proposed here is a provision that we are serious about. So that's how we emphasize that some things are going to go into regulation. That regulation shall be consulted widely and shall provide a basis for all to provide feedback. Then I would also like to say that this is such a big project that it is quite natural to report back to Stortinget about how this works. It is not a problem to report back properly, but to make a new bill, yes, we do if we believe that the law needs to be amended. But this law means that we've worked so much with it, and we're so sure that this is right. Here are many countries that have gone ahead of us. We are actually out in the last few years when it comes to putting in place a nuclear record, which is very important for patients in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2158	As I said in my post, I have tried several times to clarify – because it is not stated in the proposition – what is meant by «health professionals with a need». The last thing that was entered in the setting as an answer was said, was the following from the government fraction: ‘The majority will stress that only healthcare professionals with a useful need for health care can be given access to the core file and that access to necessary and relevant health information can only be provided.’ That's about the same thing as in the proposition. My question is: who will be defined in the regulation to have a legitimate need for primary health services, for example:?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2172	In the primary health service, for example, it will be a regular. It can be a nursing home doctor, and of course it can be a supervisor and a nurse in a nursing home. I listened with interest to Laila Bavøy's posts, and I understood it so that only there were doctors and nurses, it would be okay, but not other types of caretakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2179	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2184	Okay, then I've misunderstood – I'm sorry! The point is that when it comes to deserving needs, it concerns those who have a direct responsibility or relationship – just like for a patient record, it is not open to everyone either. It's about those who need to go into the patient records. When we look at what the nuclear record can actually do for patient safety, not least in the case of drug management, in the case of allergies or conditions that we need to know about in the event of an emergency reception, this is a very important proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2193	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2196	I wanted to have the word, even if I came late. It's a very important thing that Stortinget is dealing with today, by establishing a national core journal. The aim is primarily to ensure pacific safety. It's a theme that the Health and Care Committee has been busy for the three years I've been sitting on the Stortinget. In the health sector, rapid and accurate information on patients is often needed. A national core journal will help meet that need. All parties agree on the need for a core journal, but there is discussion and dissatisfaction about the design and premise of the use. The centre party believes it is important that the core journal should contain a limited set of essential health information, as the proposition states. Drug use is the most important thing to tackle first. Drug use summary must be a central element of the core journal. Some hearing bodies, such as the Norwegian Medical Association and the Competence Centre for IT in the health and social sector, believe that this is actually the most important thing for patient safety. It's a thing worse than a missing drug list, and it's a wrong drug list. The important thing is that the medical information provided in the core journal is updated and up-to-date, and as accurate as possible. I read in the proposition that the first step is to extract information about drugs from medicines that have been printed and/or obtained from a pharmacy. The important thing is that further development of the core journal must be sought after that the drug list corresponds as closely as possible to what the patient actually uses every day, and not just what is printed and/or taken out at the pharmacy. The opposition criticises that the bill is not clear enough on the content and information of the journal. I thought that the proposition would create a good framework for what the page should be written in detail in the order. Critical information is described in the proposition as information which, in a given situation, may have a decisive impact on the choice of health care, and if it is lacking, it may lead to a risk of mistreatment or delayed treatment. For example, health care is contraindicated – severe allergic reactions, implants, other critical information on states that may lead to loss of consciousness, or acute, serious deterioration, known congenital diseases, or whether the patient is in a critical treatment process. Contact with the healthcare service shall also be included in the core journal. The proposal should not contain the patient's complete medical history. It is an important principle that the core journal should contain a selection of important information and distinguish clearly from the usual patient journal. I also believe that this is clear in what is presented in the bill. The central party therefore supports the voluntary nature of the scheme, without any requirement for consent, but that the individual has the right to reserve himself against the processing of health information in the register. The core journal shall also indicate clearly whether a person has made a reservation, and I am pleased that the majority in the Committee supports this view. The next year, it is announced that the government will present both a major communication on ICT in healthcare and a growing message on quality and patient safety. In my view, the creation of a national core journal is a fundamental step and in many ways a platform for both of these important health issues that the government is going to bring forward to the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2219	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2233	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be occasions for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tove Karoline Knutsen has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2244	The establishment of a national health record book is widespread. The need is clearly significant. The survey carried out on paper-based patient journals showed that, in total, these represent about one third of the total population. 175 000 shelving meters, in addition to other material such as film, video and sound recording. Despite the fact that some digitisation is taking place, there is a significant material we have here that needs to ensure proper storage. The material may also become important for medical research in the future. This means that we also need to ensure that the privacy considerations are properly addressed, as they should be when researching health records and this type of information and material. Norwegian archive legislation requires public archives to dispose of archived material. The proposal here is that both patient documentation from public health services and private health institutions should be delivered to the proposed new health archive. This will be organised as part of the State Archives and subject to the National Archives as administrative authority. This means that the documents contained in the health records will be stored in premises suitable for the storage of such material in the same way as other confidentiality-related material subject to the Swedish Archives, and incorporated into the legislation applicable in the field of archives. It is proposed that the paper-based material in the Norwegian health archive should be encrypted. I have a great deal of understanding that this is not a proposal in the proposition. It would be such a demanding task to encrypt this paper-based material that the use of resources that had to be deployed could be considered quite inappropriate and almost impossible. I have great confidence that the law applicable to silence-affected material, of which there is a lot of it in the material that the Swedish Archives will take care of, will also be kept in the best way with regard to the material we are talking about here, which is to be covered by Norwegian health records.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2257	This case concerns both the establishment of Norwegian health records and the legal regulation of encryption related to the health records in the law. Clearly, there is a great need for good safety around elderly, conservational patient archives, which mainly include dead patients. But that doesn't mean that this is archive material that is not linked to person-sensitive information, on the contrary. In this archive material not only person-sensitive information will be available on dead patients, but also to a greater extent on people living today, through the use of this archive material, among others. contains information on heritable diseases, abuses, family stories — many types of information that are still sensitive to people living today. This is a significant improvement in the safety of this type of patient information by gathering it in one safe place instead of having different storage facilities in different places. The law also covers the issue that has been a major issue in Stortinget, among others. through a consultation of the Control Committee related to the understanding of the Storting decision on the encryption of health records. What the law does today is in many ways to confirm what was the Ministry of Health and the government's interpretation of the Storting's decision. The Right Party, the Christian Party, the Advance Party and the Left continue to disagree with this. We believe that there is a need, as a general rule, for personally identifiable information to be encrypted separately. But we also see that this poses some practical challenges related to the fact that some of the existing health records are paper-based and that it will take time for a person to digitise this. We therefore have a proposal based on KITH's input into the consultation round, namely that the general rule is that this should be encrypted separately, but that a prescription for a time-limited derogation may also apply until the paper-based material is digitised. Then there are some questions that have appeared recently related to §8a and Norwegian health records, that there are no equivalent encryption requirements, nor of the archive key. The left has distributed a proposal that will be promoted to raise this issue. In the consultation round, the Data Protection Authority has also made it very clear that they believe that data protection concerns related to the establishment of a national health archive are not sufficiently addressed. The right, Christian People's Party and the Progress Party share this concern. We see that there is a question mark as to why the archive key of the Norwegian health archive should not also have an encryption requirement. However, we have been given too little time to go into this, because there is information that we have become aware of lately. We are at least very concerned that when you look at a future development where Norwegian health records will of course also have to contain significant amounts of electronic information in the future as there is the type of information that will be transferred to Norwegian health records, there will be a need for a discussion on how to ensure better access to it. Therefore, we believe that the government should come back to Stortinget with information on how to respect privacy when drawing up the regulations of Section 8(a), inter alia. a concrete assessment of the need for encryption of the archive key for this archive also in order to achieve a sufficient level of protection of this type of information, which, although historical, contains very sensitive information about both dead and living people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2268	The President assumes that the representative, Bent Höie, intends to address the proposal included in the vote. - Then it's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2271	Christian People's Party agrees with the establishment of Norwegian Health Archives. It's important. I would also like to refer to the review of proposal No. 1, which Christian People's Party supports, so I'm not taking it up again. I want to refer to some of the things that the Swedish Data Protection Agency writes in its hearing opinion to a new health archive that it should not be encrypted. They say, among other things: that the health archive will provide an enormous amount of sensitive information without the consent of the health repository. Sensitive information shall be retained. It could be psychiatric diagnosis, genetic information. It is unfortunate for privacy to have so much knowledge gathered through the state in one place. For example: storage of genetic information, is said to include: that this provides not only detailed information about the person registered in the archive but also about the followers of patients and that this can provide genetic information about generations. For this reason, we are extremely uncertain whether it is good enough just to get the matter back to Stortinget, which we also support on the part of the Christian People's Party, and on which the representative Bent Höie was also involved – that the government has to come back and show how privacy is being protected in the future. That is why the Christian People's Party intends to support the Left's proposal today. Maybe the most important background for me wanting us to do that is the question of what this archive will be in the future. We know a little bit about that. At least at first it's going to contain patient information mainly from people who are dead, but we actually don't know what it's going to be in the future. For that reason, I believe we should be leading were and go to an encryption, and then I want the government to come back to Stortinget with one thing. Unfortunately, the proposal will be voted down, but alternatively, I believe that the government should definitely come back to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2280	In the proposition we are now dealing with, the government has taken the opportunity to clarify how they interpret the encryption requirement in the Health Register Act §8 third paragraph. I would therefore first like to say a few words about encrypted storage. Moving the claim from Section 8 to Section 16 has no meaning, but the left disagrees with the department's understanding of the requirement for encryption. Encryption was adopted in connection with the creation of the Norwegian patient registry in the light of the ‘significant privacy disadvantages of a person-identifiable register’. Like the other opposition parties, the Left considers that privacy is not safeguarded unless the personal identification information is stored and encrypted separately. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has repeatedly asked the Council of State how she understands the third paragraph of Section 8. The Council of State has replied that, after the wording of the third paragraph of Section 8, it must be assumed that the requirement for encryption only applies to storage and not to other processing of health information in the relevant registers. The left has always believed that this has been a strange understanding of the law and a significant weakening of the encryption requirement. It is not just storage that poses a privacy challenge, but it is so much the use of the registers. The left is therefore disappointed that the bulk of the population supports the Health Ministry’s understanding of how patient information needs to be encrypted. The left, as the representative of Davøy, believes that the legal understanding of the Data Protection Authority is better in line with what was adopted in 2007 through Stortinget’s processing. The left will therefore support proposal No. 1, that direct personal identifiers are stored encrypted and separated from the other registry data. I'd like to say a few words about Norwegian health records. The left also joins the establishment of a national health archive. It is positive that the patient archives of the specialist health service should be stored properly. In the proposition we can read that the patient documentation to be delivered to the Norwegian health records must be stored systematically, so that information on each can be found again. This involves a collection of patient documentation at the Norwegian health archive that will become a health register. It's clearly in the proposition. The left considers that person-identifiable data should be stored encrypted in health records. We also believe that for the health record. To this end, the left has made a proposal in the Chamber which requires that personal data identifiable to be stored encrypted in the health archive. The reason why we are promoting this proposal is that we believe that the data protection challenges associated with a national health archive are not adequately addressed in the proposition. The proposition suggests that the health record should be person-identifiable. The left considers that a better protection of sensitive information needs to be provided, which is best done by encrypting the identity. I find it strange that the proposition does not mention that there has been criticism of the consultation proposal. In the point of view of the hearing bodies, point 3.2.3, only three hearing bodies were mentioned and all were in favour of the proposal. I would like to draw the attention of the Chamber to the fact that the Swedish Data Protection Agency made a lot of criticism that so much sensitive information about dead people is stored in one place. I don't have time to go into this in more detail, but I encourage the representatives to go to the Data Protection Agency's website to read more. The representatives Bent Höie and Laila Davøy made statements that the government needs to get back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way, providing information on how this should be done when preparing the health records. Of course, I agree with that. I hope that the government will then also look at the possibility of encrypting the register to Norwegian health records. Although the case rapporteur says that this is demanding and almost impossible, I take up the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber. I am pleased with the support of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2297	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2300	Through the treatment of the 2010 state budget, it was decided to establish a national health archive. The health archive shall ensure the proper storage and making available of elderly, conservation-worthy patient archives from the specialist healthcare service. Norwegian health archives will be organised as a separate entity within the Swedish State Archives — which includes the National Archives, the State Archives and the Sami Archives. There is a need for legislation that takes account of special challenges related to the preservation of archive material from the specialist health service. The Archives has extensive experience in the preservation and preservation of sensitive archive material, including material of importance to the national security of the Defence. For this material there is no requirement for encryption. The health archive will contain a large amount of patient documentation on dead people, typically paper records. The starting point for this archive is 175 000 shelving metres. The material contains an innumerable number of individual documents with the name and birth number. It is not possible to encrypt these paper documents. The fact that we are now building our own building to take care of this material is a significant improvement in document safety. I trust that the Swedish Archives Agency will ensure safe storage, good systems and procedures for access to information in the health archive, as required by the Swedish Health Register Act. A health record will be provided, where privacy and information security will be well protected. I Prop. 99 L for 2011-2012 proposes necessary legislative changes to the establishment of the health record. I am referring to the fact that an overall health and care committee supports the proposed legislative changes. All patients have a right of access to their patient records. No one should be concerned that their records are going to go wrong. In October 2010, the State Health Authority wrote to the Department that some patients have not been given access to their patient records because the health professionals who have kept the records have been revoked. The regulatory framework must be designed to ensure that all patients are able to have access to their records and that the records are handled properly. This must also apply where the health-care professional has been revoked or suspended the authorisation, the licence or his/her special authorisation. National health surveillance needs to be allowed to instruct this group of health professionals to submit the patient records to the State. The Code should allow these patient records to be deposited in Norwegian health records after a period of time. The health archive will be very well equipped to manage such material. Health surveillance should be able to impose on patients’ medical records to be delivered directly to the health archive, if appropriate. Furthermore, the Ministry should be able to provide detailed rules, including: the conditions under which an order may be imposed, if necessary. The Government proposes in Prop. 99 L for 2011–2012 a new § 62 a of the Health Personnel Act on this. I refer to the fact that an overall health and care committee supports the proposal. The third paragraph of Section 8 of the Health Register Act requires that direct person-identifying characteristics be stored encrypted in specified central health records. The Ministry and the Data Protection Authority have different views on the content of this requirement. That is why I warned during the pouring of Innst. 338 S for 2009-2010 from the Control and Constitutional Committee a legislative proposal clarifying how this requirement is to be understood. The proposition specifies that person-identifying characteristics must not be separated from other records and encrypted separately. Furthermore, it is clarified that the requirement for encrypted storage is a safety requirement – not a requirement for register form. It is proposed to transfer this requirement from Section 8 of the Health Register Act to Section 16. This provision regulates the responsibility of data controllers and processors for ensuring that information security is satisfactory when health information is processed. The protection of personal data shall be ensured when processing health data. The requirement for encrypted storage is a minimum requirement that must be considered to be met if direct personal identifiers are encrypted and stored – either separately or together with other registry data. The requirement for encrypted storage must be seen in the context of the overall information security and included in the assessment of its adequacy. This will become clearer when the requirement is moved from Section 8 of the Health Register Act to Section 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2322	The views of the Progress Party and the proposal are well taken care of in the speeches by the representative Höie. But in the article to Höie, there was also an expression of skepticism and a question to the Council of State whether she will — as she usually answers when she gets questions — follow the situation closely. The question is also whether she will come back to the Storting in view of the regulations to be developed. We know that health information that will be added to this archive will become more and more digital in the future – not just on paper. It also increases the possibilities of encryption. The question will then be whether the Council of State will follow this situation closely and return to Stortingen when these regulations are to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2330	I notice that in both of these cases Stortinget wants matters back. I take it seriously when I promote things for Stortinget – and see no need to come back to Stortinget with it. But I'm always concerned, of course, that the Storting will get the information the Storting wants – and in an appropriate way. With regard to this matter and the issue of encryption, there are matters I have notified myself, because the wording in Section 8 of the Health Register Act, that the requirement that personally identifiable information should be stored encrypted, has created confusion. I believe that I have made this proposal clear. I can't clarify it any other way. I see that the opposition disagrees with this and believe that it should be saved separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2337	Part of the health records are also paper-based, i.e. the ones listed in the third paragraph of Section 8. This is one of the reasons why the government is in favour of the requirement for encryption to apply only to registers. There is also the situation for national health records, that it is paper-based. What, then, is the background for the government not proposing that the register of national health archives be encrypted?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2342	National health records will have some registers, as the representative Höie says, with some kind of archive key and access to special documentation, indication and possibly an aggregated information on each individual journal. There is no problem storing this encrypted, but it will be very unmanageable if you are going to have this encrypted when you are working on it. Encryption has been made the big security issue in Stortinget, as I experience it, given the great attention this has received. This has to be seen as one of several security measures in the case of archives or registers. I would say that the most important thing is that these archives do not lie and float throughout the country, but that they are collected in one place, that they are properly maintained in new buildings, and that there are strict requirements for privacy and security in the context of storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2349	I agree with the Council of State that it is important that old archives that may be around are collected. I still can't understand that you can't go to encrypt the registry itself. But my questions go on something else. How will this archive be developed? Will this later, for example. be provided with more recent journals, perhaps digitised journals later? And then, when you've collected this old material, will it be used in another way? In that case, will this lead to our getting a case back on privacy and encryption in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2356	I would like to repeat that the matter of encryption has been made the major safety point in Stortinget. It's not. There is only one of many more measures. It is very important to look at how security has been ensured in terms of access control and access control. What information should each person have in general access to? Now I'm talking about health records in general. What is important here is that the overall package and the whole structure of the health archive, the way it is established, the way it is organised with regard to archive law, and all other security measures that go under the Health Register Act have been properly implemented. For encryption itself: it had to be only when it was stored. You can probably do that, but if you want to have an online access, it won't be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2363	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2379	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2388	In this case, the Stortinget has a representative proposal from Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roar Bredvold and Torgeir Tåldal to distinguish the market regulator role from the market player role in the food sector. The proposers believe that today’s market regulation system provides market players TINE, Nortura and Norwegian Joint Purchases with the opportunity to exploit market regulation for their own benefit as long as market regulators are also a commercial operator in the market. Furthermore, the proposers consider that this would discourage effective competition in the marketing of agricultural products and foodstuffs and, through their proposal, would like to place all operators equally in this market. To this end, they wish to transfer the market regulation function from TINE, Nortura and Norwegian Joint Purchases to the State Agricultural Administration as an independent body. The proposers also request that the government review market regulation mechanisms to evaluate their impact on all actors in the value chain and that the government submit amendments to ensure equal competition. A majority of all parties outside the Advance Party indicates that the Agreement on Agriculture provides that TINE, Nortura and Norwegian Common Purchases are to be market regulators for milk, meat/ova and cereals respectively. This shall ensure a stable set-aside and stable prices for agricultural products. At the same time, market regulation must ensure a stable supply and approximate price to consumers. The same majority points out that regulators have a significant responsibility to monitor market fluctuations so that the market balances and consumers are well served. Another majority, consisting of SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that current market organisations will continue to be a central tool in agricultural policy. This majority will continue the division of responsibilities and labour between authorities and industry as regards the financing, governance and operation of the market organisations. Furthermore, this majority considers that, with its control activities and the establishment of a framework for the operation of market regulators, the Turnover Council ensures that market regulation takes place in a way that minimises the impact of competitive conditions. As this majority sees it, the responsibilities and practices of market regulators are clearly regulated by law, regulation and agricultural agreement. On this basis, a majority consisting of SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party propose that the proposal for a representative be rejected. The cooperative model for the placing on the market of food from land and sea has its roots all the way back to the 1920s. After World War I, the prices of agricultural products fell sharply, while the pari policy of the Bank of Norway created deflation and increased real value of borrowed loans. The result for Norwegian agriculture was disastrous. On the supplier side, there was an everyone's struggle against everyone to sell the goods, which further helped to reduce prices and strengthen the crisis for agriculture. The farmers were unable to operate the loans, and the result was that a large number of farms were sold under forced auction. The law with the old-fashioned name referred to by the proposers was the measures taken by the authorities to end the misery. In 1936 the turnover of agricultural products was authorised. The farmers were given the country’s approval to organise themselves in cooperatives, thus obtaining predictable and stable framework conditions for production and marketing. It in turn meant a rise for the whole industry out of a hopeless economic downturn. Since then, the agricultural cooperatives and the sales teams of fishermen have been the very foundation of our primary industries and thus also an important prerequisite for housing and value creation in rural areas. It may be tempting to tear all of this down with a pen stroke in order to provide consumers with food at a slightly lower price. I want to use this opportunity to stress that the Christian People's Party cannot support such political action. For us, it is important to ensure continued settlement in the districts and a stable and predictable income base for Norwegian farmers and fishermen. Earlier this week, the Christian People’s Party clearly stated that we still want the fish sales laws to be on the fishermen’s hands. Now we send an equally clear signal that we still want agricultural cooperatives as market regulators and market players, to ensure the farmers' proper payment for their products and to ensure Norwegian customers' high-quality food at a favourable price.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2422	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for an orderly process and for a simple explanation here in the Chamber, to which I essentially subscribe. The manner in which market regulation is to take place and who is to take care of it have been the subject of various aspects throughout the last year. As I understand the proposers, they believe that the regulators have the opportunity to use their position for their own benefit. The views of the government parties and the Christian People's Party on these issues were clarified in the discussion of the agricultural communication, among others. by means of a joint decision, in which we announced that we would continue the role of cooperative management in the market organisations. We believe that this is a very appropriate and cost-effective system. This is detailed in our majority comments on the individual sectors of agricultural raw materials. The aim of the model is to ensure the disposal of products from farmers throughout the country at predictable prices and to ensure access to Norwegian raw materials for both the food industry and consumers – to joy for industry and consumers. The Turnover Act provides a clear framework for the conduct of market regulation and provides for the collection of the turnover tax levied by the primary producer, covering the costs associated with the measures, in order to prevent profits in the market and offset seasonal fluctuations in supply and demand. The Turnover Council is responsible for market regulation, which collects the levy and has the competence to manage these funds for regulatory purposes. It is the primary producer who pays. The Council requires the levy and manages the funds. From time to time, it may appear that the market regulators are dealing with this at their discretion. So it's not. However, it is the responsibility of the regulator to monitor fluctuations in the market, so that this balance is well served and the consumer is well served. We saw last winter that this was not handled well enough. It's not good, but I'm sure that it's now taken care of to avoid unfortunate episodes for the afterlife. I believe that this system is organised in such a way that compensation for implementing regulatory measures only goes to this and should not benefit from the regulator's business activities. All of this is very well explained in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee. The suspension states that the Right Party and the Advance Party see the need for a certain market regulation. It is, in my view, a far too defensive approach to the problem. Market regulation is a very important measure and a very central instrument to enable us to have a well-functioning value chain with acceptable profitability throughout the chain. So the Right Party and the Advance Party say that market regulation is a societal task that needs to be carried out in a competitively neutral and cost-effective way. Yes, can one imagine more cost-effective market regulation than that the primary producer itself bears costs? There must be an incentive for production planning to avoid excessive regulatory costs. That must be good, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2445	The Progress Party is of the opinion that today’s market regulation system provides market regulators, TINE, Nortura and Norwegian Joint Purchases with an opportunity to exploit market regulation for their own benefit as long as market regulation is also a commercial operator in the market. TINE SA is a market regulator in the milk sector. TINE operates within all levels of the value chain for dairy products, from the collection of colostrum from farmers to the purchase and sale of most types of dairy products. Several competing dairy producers are dependent on purchasing raw materials from the competitor TINE. In 2004, a division of TINE’s raw materials management and industrial activities was carried out. TINE Raw materials are responsible for the collection of colostrum from milk producers and provide supplies to industry under non-discriminatory conditions. The competitive situation in the dairy sector is weak, with TINE SA as a dominant player in all the core areas of dairy production. In order to create effective competition in the dairy sector, it is necessary for operators to purchase deliveries of colostrum on the same market terms as Tine’s own processing company. An option that will remove much of the problem of distortion of competition is a complete distinction between TINE Raw materials and TINE Industry. This will eliminate the incentives and opportunities of the TINE group to cross-subsidise between the commodity and industrial markets. The current system of administrative and accounting separation is not sufficient to bring about more equal competition between the processing operators. An intermediate solution that will largely solve the distortions of competition is to create both a legal and real ownership gap between the market regulator and TINE Industry. It will also eliminate TinE's incentives to cross-subsidise between the commodity and industrial markets. Nortura is a market regulator in the egg and meat sectors. Nortura had 65 pst in 2010. of the egg market, 50 pst. of the poultry market, 30 pst. of the market for fresh/processed meat and 70 pst. of the market for meat products with a high degree of processing, such as sausages and coatings. We believe that it is time to address the problems of distortion of competition between Nortura and independent operators in egg and meat production, so that the socio-economic loss of this restriction of competition will be avoided in the future. An intermediate solution that will largely solve the distortion of competition is also to create a legal distinction between market regulator and Nortura. This can be done by separating today's market regulation tasks that Nortura currently does into a separate company owned and operated by the government or by transferring the regulatory tasks to the State's agricultural management. I would also like to remind you that the regulator receives 35 million kroner. kr over the agricultural holding in order to regulate. So it's not just right when you say that it's the actors themselves who pay. We could also read in the United Nations on April 18, this year that Nortura has lost market shares to its competitors. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Nortura said: ‘The downturn also leads us to approach a level where it becomes difficult to exercise our role as market regulator.’ Here you kind of admit that you have some problems doing this job. The market regulation for cereals consists of the obligation to receive cereals and oil seed from all cereal producers, the obligation to supply regulated products to all producers of food and feed, to draw up forecasts for the production and demand for Norwegian cereals, to propose import quotas and to implement marketing measures. Norwegian Joint Purchases have been allocated responsibility as market regulator for cereals. The Progress Party believes that a certain regulation of the market balance of agricultural products is necessary, but I would also like to stress that the market regulation as it is currently organised is distorting competition between the operators in the processing sector by adding only one of the actors, namely the cooperative. The current market regulation regime may provide market transparency to regulators other than others by allowing them to act both as a commercial operator and as a regulator. This means, among other things: that the board of major cooperatives, which are also commercially responsible for the results, can have unique transparency of market prospects and balance sheets, while having the power to opt for regulatory strategies and measures in a timely and strategic manner. We would stress that market regulation is a societal task where the selection to carry out the mission must be based more on a cost-effective and competitively neutral position than on who is the owner of the company to carry out the mission. We also note that today's system provides for a different competitive relationship between market players, which may lead to a distortion of competition, which may ultimately go beyond prices and offers to consumers. The Progress Party is of the opinion that market regulation should be carried out by an independent regulator and that, therefore, an independent sample should be set up in the first place which can review the different regulatory arrangements, their financing and functions and propose a new regime in which all market players can participate and have the same market information and the same influence on the implementation of the scheme. I would like to take up with this the proposals that we have promoted alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2482	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2485	Only a few comments, especially to Arne L. Haugen's posts, because that also explains a little bit of our position. When Haugen and the Workers' Party say that this is about how market regulation is going to happen, and who is going to do it, I often have the impression that it's more about the last and less about the first, that is, who is going to do it. That is what underlies our proposal, namely to go in and see how this works, whether it is right in the market, and whether the players are served with it. So also Haugen says, as I see it, that we've said that this gives current market regulation administrators a different level of transparency. We're not saying that, it says here that it can 'give' the administrators a different insight. The whole thing is that it is uncertain whether there can be any other transparency in the market outlook and in the market balance, while at the same time, both in time and strategically, it is possible to choose regulatory strategies and measures – of course for the benefit of what has been set to manage, but perhaps also with a look at how it turns out for one's own business. So it's not that the opposition is completely unsuspecting in understanding how this works. We are aware that the farmers pay this, we are aware that it is regulated by the Turnover Council. We are also aware of who is in charge of the Sales Council. So ask Haugen at last, rather hinting at the song – this is not a criticism of Haugen’s posts, but it was so good with my own post to comment on these matters that he raised – can you think of something more rational than that agriculture itself regulates this? No, maybe not, but we don't know. That is precisely why we have promoted this proposal, in which we want to review the functioning of these regulatory arrangements throughout the value chain, and, if necessary, to promote proposals for changes that take account of consumers and to promote equal competition and to counteract different power relationships between operators in the industry. That's a point – and I totally agree with Arne L. Haugen i – that we have had butter crises, we have had milk quotas regulation in winter due to lack of milk. It is now announced that the market maker wants to have the allowances raised again. I have nothing against it, but it tells me one thing, and that's that it's becoming increasingly incomprehensible in this market. You just look a few months ahead, you have to do something new. Then the question can be asked, for example. are: do we have a regulator that goes in and looks at the more fundamental underlying conditions in the market, not just the milk that will come in a little bit? What's going to happen in the fairly long term? Such things could come out if we got such a review as we ask. That would be, I think, something that the government too might be worth it. Maybe we got the answers the government wants, maybe we got something else, and then you finished that discussion. Now there's an uncertainty about this. I don't think we've seen the last of the uncertainties of market regulation. There will be more, and our proposal, which is now being voted down, I think will be quite updated as time passes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2500	At the outset, I would like to stress that the market regulation role is clearly regulated by the Council of Commerce and through the Agreement on Agriculture. The regulatory measures and their use are controlled by the State Agriculture Administration as the Secretariat of the Council. Agriculture itself bears the financial responsibility for overproduction and finances market regulation itself by paying the turnover tax. Relatively small surpluses of agricultural products can lead to a large reduction in price, and then to a level far below the target prices fixed by the Stortinget. Surpluses of agricultural products may also trigger the need to levy increased turnover taxes on producers. When agriculture bears the economic responsibility for overproduction, the industry must also have instruments to balance the market. Having this responsibility gives agriculture a strong incentive to keep markets in balance. Current market regulation balances markets by affecting both the volume of output and demand. This is done by introducing measures to adjust production and to adapt prices to the producer and wholesale market. The price adjustment is carried out on the basis of ongoing long-term forecast work. This could reduce the risk of large profits and reduce significantly the risk of price losses and high regulatory costs. In order for market regulators to be able to influence price fixing, market regulators must also be part of the flow of the products in question. Adding market regulation responsibilities to e.g.: The State's agricultural administration will therefore not provide a better solution than the one we have today. It is important to stress that market regulation is not only passive to accept and deposit surplus goods, which will result in very costly regulation. In this context, I would like to point out the experience of the European Union, where the authorities of several manufacturing sectors have for a long time guaranteed a minimum price. That system provided a large surplus of goods on the hands of the authorities with high costs for storage, etc. I strongly believe that such a system is not served. It is a system similar to that proposed by Bredvold, Nesvik and Tåldal. The Right and Advance Party also believe that we need some adjustment of the market balance. But if current regulation is removed, does the Right and Advance Party believe that we should choose a costly regulation on the part of the state and burden taxpayers on expenditure? We have to ask that question. The right hand party and the Progress Party justify some of their scepticism of the current regime that regulators may have market transparency different from that of other market actors. I agree that bias can give rise to distortions of competition. But it is prescribed that agricultural cooperatives have an obligation to disclose all the information they acquire by virtue of their regulatory responsibilities, and I have not recorded much noise about the compliance with that provision. In fact, the insight of other actors could be greater than it would have been without the disclosure obligations of the major actors. Moreover, I can see that any proposal to wind up market regulation could go hand in hand with the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party go beyond the objective of agriculture throughout the country, since the obligation of reception, which ensures the disposal of agricultural products throughout the country, must be abolished if the current market regulation is abolished. The government sees market regulation as a key element of Norwegian agricultural policy for achieving agreed prices, for stabilising the market in agricultural products and for contributing to agriculture throughout the country. It is clear that today’s organisation gives actors different roles in the raw material sector, but let it be clear that I assume that regulation is to be competitively neutral at industry level, the rights and obligations of all cooperatives as a whole, the obligation to receive, supply and information. Very well known, no review has concluded that such distortions of competition exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2531	Twice during the December month, proposals were made to increase the quotas on milk, because we have a few million litres of milk too little in this country. But the government goes in for a scheme where 95 pst. of all uses, the increase of 3 pst., while the remaining 5 pst. of the uses, which currently have a quota of 400000 litres, are not allowed to be included in it. My question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State believe that you can get enough milk when you don't let the big ones join in and raise the production? After all, they have all the volume. Does the Council of State think it's fair that you give someone the right to increase the quota, while others don't get it? Can the Council of State guarantee we'll get enough milk in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2538	Let me first point out that the question that the representative is asking here is not related to market regulation, but it has to do with the quota arrangements. With regard to the issue of increasing allowances, TINE has proposed it and has to be assessed and determined a little later. The conclusion of that will become known later this month. As regards the issue of the level of allowances, the rules are such that individual consumption has a maximum quota of 400000 litres, the combined consumption has a maximum quota of 750000 litres. I assume, of course, that the legislation must be in place, regardless of any changes to the issue of increasing allowances in order to meet the needs of the market. If it is to be changed, it must be in consultation with industry organisations. In addition to that, TINE, the market regulator, is responsible for ensuring that we have enough milk and that we implement measures to ensure it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2548	I want to go back to what I asked the council because he didn't answer the question. It's not fair that 95 pst. of the uses, which are small uses, will be allowed to increase the quota by 3 pst., which was first done at New Year's, and then 3 new pst., if it goes through now. The remaining uses, which are used with a quota of 400000 litres, are not allowed to do so. This is a system that makes someone get, while others don't get. Thus, the large uses do not have the opportunity to earn more revenue, but the small uses increase their income. This is completely unfair. The question that I again ask the Council of State is, when you have problems getting milk, and TINE says they're missing 30 million liters of milk, how can you get enough milk if you don't leave the big ones who have the volume, join in and promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2559	As I said – this has nothing to do with market regulation, it has to do with quota arrangements. In the case of quota schemes, an upper production ceiling is set – for single use 400000 litres and for combined use 750000 litres. It's laid down in the regulations. It has been agreed with the agricultural partners. If it is to be amended, it must be addressed to the agricultural contractors. It's through the cooperation you find solutions to it. As regards the ability to meet the needs of the market, it is up to TINE, as market regulator, to provide through the proposals that come there. Of course, I expect the proposals that come up will meet the needs of the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2568	Governments often ask in these contexts about market regulation: What does the Right think we should have instead? Yes, that's what we've suggested here: that someone can go through and see what we're going to have instead, so he's aware of it. If he wants to know, he can get his people to vote for the proposal. In the letter he sent to the Committee, he repeats what he said in his statement: market regulation is regulated by the Council of Turnover and through the Agreement on Agriculture, etc. We've heard this many times, and we're very aware of that. But does the Council of State seriously believe that these are regulations, regulations and laws that cannot be changed at all, should that be the case? Or that it takes at least as long as changing the Constitution here in the house?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2575	Let me be the first to say that I have heard that the party Right at the representative Fleet has said that we want to investigate this matter and see if there are alternative solutions – it is also said from my side. It is also, of course, possible to amend the rules and regulations laid down in the Agreement on Agriculture and in accordance with the Decision of the Storting, etc. Don't say that. What is my point is that the system we have today, where agriculture itself has an important role in market regulation, is a good system. It's a good system that makes us get efficient and cheap market regulation, and it ensures that we avoid overproduction, with low costs for the farmer. It should also be anti-competitive, which I have experienced as one of the appeals points, and which is underlined by the proposal and the treatment of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2584	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2589	Would it be natural to entrust DNB with setting the country's interest rate? Of course not. Although I can agree that it is more natural for DNB to do so than for Hol Sparebank to do so, it is nevertheless not a natural task for a competitor in a market to establish the framework conditions for co-competitors. TINE is a dominant market player. Both in cheese and butter they have a market share of over 50 pst. What we need to be interested in is whether the agricultural authorities, through the powers they grant to TINE, maintain and develop the market dominance of TINE. At least competitors do not trust that the regulatory role is kept separate from the other TINE and more commercial interests. Then I believe that the Storting should have an obligation to consider other forms of organisation than today, which are suitable for distrusting the system. Although it was such that this mistrust should be totally unfounded, it is an independent point to choose a robust organisation that can just underpin the confidence that the decisions taken in market regulation are entirely non-competitor-neutral. In my view, the system needs to be transformed in such a way that market regulation takes place according to the arm's length principle. Regulations must be transparent and fair transparency must be provided to competitors. Today, TINE determines the price of milk for its competitors. TINE calculates a return on equity in the price basis of the price they demand from competing private suppliers. It is simply not fair, and it does not provide a level playing field. In its letter to the Committee, p. 6 first column of the position where the Council of State is more concerned with the defence of market regulation in general, he says something interesting: ‘I would also like to stress that the regulatory measures are something that benefits the entire industry, both at the producer level and later in the food chain. [[...]] This through greater stability and predictability in the market, allowing the scheduled movement of goods, with minimum additional costs.» There are many industries that could imagine predictable prices, only they were high enough, and that they could plan their market efforts and drop these fluctuations that the market often provides. What I could imagine asking the Council of State a question about is: why does this logic apply to agriculture and not to those who produce, for example. shoes, pens, bags or bicycles?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2607	I want to comment on what the Council of State says. He says it's the taxpayers who have to pay the price if you find another solution. But the Council of State doesn't mention, as I also said in my post, that today you actually spend 35 million. kr of taxpayers' money from the agricultural agreement to these actors. The Council of States should know that, with all due respect, because he is responsible for that agreement. So he also says that if this happens, the obligation to receive falls away. That's not right. Only today have, among other things, The Q-Meieriene are subject to reception obligations, as are the private operators in the meat market. So the reception obligation is there today, whether you're dependent on a regulator or not. It gives the other actors, the private actors, an equal opportunity to the others. But they have a disadvantage, including: if you have under-production. When you have under-production of meat, you have to import meat. And then Nortura can sit on the market and just take care of Norwegian meat, while the other private operators have to take imported meat at a price that's about the same. So there they also have a market advantage, because they can sell Norwegian meat and be sure they have Norwegian meat at any time, while the others do not get that meat. We saw that with regard to the problem that was this year when it was about pine meat; then Nortura had an advantage because they could say that they supplied Norwegian meat all the time. So here the market regulator delivers something that's not good and that goes beyond the others. So a little bit back to this with allowances, which you hang on to, and the question that the council didn't answer me. It can't be right that you have to drop to 95 pst, while 5 pst. not sheep. But it is entirely in line with the policy pursued by the government, because today it is only 14 pst. living from agriculture, i.e. which has 100 pst. income from agriculture. 86 pst. has income in order to obtain it. It says itself when the farmer is not allowed to produce enough to live on it, with a policy that keeps away from the big customs, and makes sure that only the hobbies are allowed to come forward. It's government policy. Therefore, three uses are dropped every day – 21 for a week and over 1000 for a year. There has never been as much use as with the Center Party and Breck in government. That shows that the policy has failed. There is one industry that is not regulated, and it is the fur industry, and it is the most profitable industry now. It makes the most money, and it's not regulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2620	The representative addressed by Tetzschner is the competitive situation in this market. Let me then underline that the rules on the price equalisation system of the milk market organisation were amended on 1 July 2007. Experience with the new scheme was to be evaluated after five years, i.e. now in 2012. The situation in the dairy market at the time was marked by concern, conflict and legal proceedings over several years, which was unfortunate for all actors. Several competition policy measures were then introduced in the milk price equalisation scheme, such as: means differentiated charges for different actors in the field where TINE is a dominant operator. There was a change in the specific distribution grants to the Q-Meierien, and there was a continuation of the separate capital allowance to the Q-Meierien. Following the amendments implemented on 1 July 2007, the level of conflict has been reduced and the operators of the price equalisation mechanism have concluded on the changes made. There shall be an evaluation of this competitive situation now in 2012. It is the State Agriculture Administration, which is the administrative body responsible for this scheme, which has also been responsible for carrying out the evaluation. The SLF shall also use industry forums for dairies as a reference group in its work. All actors are represented. Competition supervision shall also be included in the reference group. The mandate requires the SLF to evaluate the competition policy measures of the milk price equalisation scheme in order to ensure effective competition. The basis for the evaluation is the assumptions underlying the 2007 amendments. In its mandate, the SLF shall identify market trends, assess the impact of the measures taken, assess the need for and, where appropriate, propose changes. So we are carrying out an evaluation of a significant change that was carried out in 2007. It must be now and the actors themselves must be involved in the evaluation. We are concerned about the competitive situation, and we are concerned that this should work on the basis of assumptions, which means that a distinction should be made between industry and raw materials, and one should allow all actors to have a competitive situation that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2631	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e2637	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3601	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 3-5, by Laila Marie Reiertsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, 6-9, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work with a view to equalising the statutory rules for temporary employment in the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act. The wording of Section 13-2 of the Civil Service Act is used as a basis for such equality of law.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3631	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to explore an employment strategy to meet the future need for health professionals.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds; ‘The government is asked to provide the Storting with a review of the rules on leave set against the rules on day-to-day pay.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3653	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to promote as soon as possible the necessary measures to ensure that the Authority’s obligations and instruments of the IA Agreement apply to all enterprises and all employees irrespective of whether they have concluded a collective agreement.’; Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for the establishment of an alert unit under the Labour Inspectorate. The unit should be a warning point receiving and recording alert cases. The unit should aim to enter into a dialogue situation with the parties involved, but should also be empowered to intervene in establishments, provide clarification on the circumstances in which sanctions are being notified to the employer. The majority asks the government to evaluate the unit after two years to see if the unit is functioning according to its intention.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to review the rights of self-employed workers in a comprehensive manner and to propose the necessary improvements, inter alia. in the case of sickness-related rights, care for own children, care and training allowances and pensions.’;» The Progress Party has announced its support for the Left's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3684	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a working-time commission to look at the practice of working-time arrangements and, inter alia, for proposals for more flexible rules for the average calculation of working-time more flexible rules for the withdrawal of overtime whether current rules on night work and Sunday work are appropriate in order to increase the proportion of full-time jobs in the short and long term.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3717	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to await the imposition of administrative penalties for infringement of the notification obligation after the Storting has discussed the overall issues related to this as an instrument.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3734	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote a legislative proposal that regulates the rules of leave also for non-organised workers.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3767	During the debate Laila Marie Reiertsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government in the fight against social dumping to set up a public body to seek out a statutory national or industrial minimum wage. It is requested that the sample be broadly composed and that its suspension and conclusions be presented in the spring of 2013.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3780	The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3797	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kjell Ingolf Roppstad on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-9, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-9 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] the following amendment is made: the first and second paragraphs of Section 2-4 are replaced by the following: [[1]] [[2]] However, warnings may not be made in the interest of harm, nor must employees unduly disclose business secrets, commercial matters of significant competitive importance, or matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. The employee must first have alerted internally, unless the conditions of the employee have appeared so that internal warning will have no purpose.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] is amended as follows: § 10-4, new 7th paragraph Employer and employee may agree in writing that, in addition to normal working hours, working hours are not covered by provisions on overtime in § 10-6 [[7]] [[2]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] the following amendment is made: Sections 10 to 6, the fourth and fifth paragraphs are replaced by the following: The employer may impose overtime work up to 200 hours within a period of one year. [[4]] [[5]] The employer and the employee may enter into a written contract of overtime of up to 400 hours within a period of one year. Paragraphs 10-6, sixth and seventh paragraphs are deleted. Paragraphs 10-6, eighth paragraph becomes the sixth paragraph. § 10-6, the ninth paragraph becomes the seventh paragraph and is replaced by the following: The employer and the employees’ trustees in the activities bound by the collective bargaining agreement may agree in writing a derogation from the limit of 13 hours within 24 hours and extend the period for the average calculation of the total working time to 52 weeks. [[7]] In this case, the worker shall be guaranteed equivalent compensatory rest periods or, where this is not possible, other appropriate protection. § 10-6, tenth and eleventh paragraphs become the eighth and ninth paragraphs.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] the second paragraph of Section 10-12 shall be replaced by the following: the provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to workers in a particularly independent position, with the exception of the first, second and fourth paragraphs of Section 10-2. In particular, an independent position means an employee who determines mainly his or her own working time, when carrying out his or her duties and how to carry out his or her duties.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] the fourth paragraph is deleted as follows: The current fifth to ninth terms are going to be the new fourth to eighth terms.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] Section 14-9 is amended as follows: the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Employees shall be hired permanently, unless they are: [[1]] a) work instead of another or another [[viariat]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] the following shall be amended: Sections 14 to 9, the fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Temporary employment contracts shall expire at the end of the agreed period, or at the end of the particular work, unless otherwise agreed in writing or provided for in the collective bargaining agreement. [[5]] Employees who have been in continuous temporary employment for more than two years after points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph shall be deemed to be permanently employed in such a way that the rules on termination of employment apply. For the purposes of calculating the working time after the second sentence, no deduction shall be made from the absence of the employee.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Promises of Proposal No. 6 to 12 shall enter into force immediately.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e3921	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. in the fourth paragraph of Section 14-12(a), the fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following: National employee organisation may conclude a collective agreement with an employer or an employer association on exemptions from the rules of the first subparagraph, provided that the general protection of employees hired from activities for the purpose of renting is respected.» [[4]] The left has announced that they will now support the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4247	It is votered over I, New § 3C paragraph 4, New § 3D, II and III § 14-12 new third paragraph, New § 14-12 b paragraph 4, New § 14-12 c. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4252	The Christian People's Party shall vote in the same way as the Right in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4257	The party of progress, right, left and Christian, shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4270	It is then votered over in § 3B paragraphs 1–3, New § 3C paragraphs 1–3 and 5–6, III § 14-1 new second sentence, the rest of § 14-12, New § 14-12 a paragraph 1, New § 14-12 b paragraphs 1–3 and 5–6 and the first sentence of the first paragraph of § 18-6. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4284	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on the remainder of I, the remainder of III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4295	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4305	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4317	The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4334	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–7, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4–7. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to the Stortinget where the municipal autonomy is reintroduced by the establishment of a purchasing centre or by the extension of existing purchasing centres.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget where municipal autonomy is reintroduced as regards measures in the so-called beach zone or 100 metres belt.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for the liberalisation of the rules on the universal design of the smallest dwellings.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for legislative changes under proposals 1 to 6 by the spring of 2013. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4368	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review specific laws relating to the processing of construction products and to make the necessary proposals with a view to simplifying legislation and procedures as far as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting on the necessary legislative changes to enable municipalities to take final decisions in planning and building matters.’ The right has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4392	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of the Planning and Building Act with a view to making it more liberal, easier to understand and easier to practice.’ The right and left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4445	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4455	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4463	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4920	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to the new Section 6d first-third paragraph and the fifth-sixth paragraph and the proposal No. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government at the end of the piloting period to return to Stortinget with a new case concerning changes to the Health Register Act, etc. for the national implementation of the core file.’;» Proposal No 2 reads as follows: ‘In the new Section 6d of the Health Register Act, the first to third paragraphs are replaced by the following: The purpose of the national core file is to promote patient safety and quality of treatment by supporting interaction between healthcare professionals on health care for the patient. The King of the Council of State may make provision for the establishment of a national core file. National nuclear records are a central and cross-activityal health register. National core file shall contain a limited set of relevant health information necessary for the provision of sound health care. The Directorate-General for Health shall be a data controller.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the Health Register Act, a new Section 6d, fifth to seventh paragraphs, is replaced by the following: Health professionals with a need for health care may, subject to the consent of the data subject, be given access to the necessary and relevant health information from the national core file. Access to the national core file may only be given to the extent necessary for the provision of health care or the administration of such assistance, and in accordance with the applicable provisions on professional secrecy. Access shall be checked. Where necessary for the provision of sound health care, the King of the Council of State may dispense with the requirement of consent. By way of derogation from the consent, the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 45 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The King of the Council of State may lay down detailed rules on the establishment of the national core file, the operation and processing of health data, including the information to be processed, the rules on deletion and the rights of the patient. Data concerning the data subject may not be provided from the national core file for insurance purposes, for research, by the prosecution authority, court, or by the employer even if the data subject agrees.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4962	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to the fourth paragraph of Section 6 of the New Section 6 and proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 6d of the Health Register Act shall be replaced by the following: Health information may be recorded and otherwise processed in the national core file, with the consent of the data subject. The provisions of the Patient and User Rights Act on consent competence in Sections 4 to 3 to 4 to 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis.» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4984	A vote shall be taken on the remainder of the Committee's position on I and II-XI.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e4994	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5004	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5011	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Health Register Act, the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 16 shall be replaced by the following: In the registers referred to in the third paragraph of Section 8 and in Section 8a, direct personal identification characteristics shall be stored encrypted and separated from other records.’; The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5254	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up of Section I, the second paragraph of Section 16 and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 16 of the Health Register Act shall be replaced by the following: In the registers referred to in the third paragraph of Section 8, direct personal identifiers shall be stored encrypted and separated from other records. The requirement that direct person identifiers be stored encrypted and separated from other records does not apply to the national electronic prescription database. The Ministry may dispense with the requirement that direct person identifiers be stored encrypted and separated from other records. Compensations shall be limited in time.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5274	We're going to vote for the rest of I, and we're going to vote for II, even V.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5283	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5293	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5300	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Tåldal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3, by Torgeir Tjäldal, on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for necessary amendments so that the market regulation of eggs and meat, milk and cereals, based on the Law of 10 July 1936 No. 6 in order to carry out the turnover of agricultural products, shall be repealed.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary changes in order to establish a legal and ownership distinction between market regulator and TINE SA, Nortura SA and Norwegian Joint Purchases by adding the tasks of market regulator to the State’s agricultural management.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5336	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, and from the Right, saying, ‘The government is asking for a review of market regulation mechanisms to see whether they work well enough for all actors in the value chain, and for proposals for changes that take account in particular of consumers and to promote equal competition and to counteract different power relationships between operators in the industries.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-07.ana.ud1925e5391	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
