ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e22	The representatives of Gorm Kjernli, Laila Gustavsen, Anette Trettebergstien, Karin Andersen, Henning Warloe, Rigmor Andersen Eide and Dagfinn Højbrätten, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 18 June 2012: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 18 June 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 1000 are determined: Government councils Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Lars Peder Breck will be given 18 June 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 1215 destinies in grace. Lawyer Marit Arnstad is appointed State Council and will take over from 18 June 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 1215 Directors of the Ministry of Transport. Stutteringsrepresentative Trygve Slagsvold Vedum is appointed State Council and will take over from 18 June 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 1215 administered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. State Secretarys Lars Erik Bartnes and Erik Lahnstein will be given on 18 June 2012 at 9.30 a.m. 1215 dismissed in grace as Secretary of State of the Council of State Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. State Secretary Harald Oskar Buttedahl will be dismissed at 1215 a.m. on 18 June 2012 as Secretary of State for Council of State Lars Peder Breck. State Secretarys Lars Erik Bartnes and Erik Lahnstein are appointed from 18 June 2012 at 10 a.m. 1215 as State Secretary to the Council of State Marit Arnstad. State Secretary Harald Oskar Buttedahl is appointed from 18 June 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 1215 as State Secretary to the Council of State Trygve Battle Violence Vedum." The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. National Councils have made the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The former members of the government, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Lars Peder Breck, have taken the seat as representatives. The first alternate of the Hedmark County, Olov Groetting, has taken the seat as a representative of the time the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum is a member of the government. A number of permit applications are available: on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and on behalf of the European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Democrats and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Tuesday 28 August – both to participate in the Executive Committee of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and in the European Parliamentary Assembly in Tajikistan from the representatives of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) on Tuesday 28 August – both to participate as representatives of the Nordic Council in the European Parliamentary Baltic Sea Conference in St. Petersburg from the Workers's Party on the General Committee on Permition on Permitation of the Permition of the March of the European Parliament in the European Parliament These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of the county of Troms, Bjørn Inge Mo and Hilde Anita Nyvoll respectively, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For East-Agder counties: Åshild Karoline HauglandFor West-Agder counties: Tor Sigbjørn For Busherud counties: Kjell Børre HansenFor Oslo: Sylvi Listhaug and Mari Lund ArnemFor Rogaland counties: Laila Thorsen and Geir PollestadFor Telemark counties: Kåre Fostervold and Odin Adelsten BohmannFor Trom counties: Viggo FossumFor North-Trondelag counties: Board LangsavoldFor South-Trondelag counties: Knut Gravrök
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e205	The referenced alternates are present and will take their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e217	On 22 July 2011, Norway was hit by the biggest violence in peacetime. The bomb explosion in the government quarter and the mass killing on the Utøya took 77 lives. Many were seriously injured. Important social institutions were affected. A global nation met the crisis with dignity – in confidence in our open democracy and in the ability of the community to deal with an extraordinary trial. The government took the early initiative to get a full review of everything that happened. In the spirit of July 22, we asked for facts on the table without a filter. What happened? How could that happen? And what are we going to learn? We therefore invited Stortinget to cooperate. On 12 August 2011, the government appointed the 22nd July Commission, headed by Alexandra Bech Gjørv. Both the composition and the mandate were discussed with the party leaders. Members had a broad competence in emergency response. The Commission was given a broad mandate – and a very clear mandate: write the July 22 story undefiled and honest. The Commission has worked for one year. The final result is available in NOU 2012: 14. The report is thorough and concrete. Serious and unpleasant. We got the report we asked for. I'm grateful for that. Also unpleasant. The crucial thing is that we now have a common story about what happened. It is an absolutely necessary step to learn and to act. The government has taken up work on the Commission's final words as compass: It's urgent. We want to learn from the defects and defects that are discovered. We're going to act to make society safer. We're going to mobilise the administration to the task of re-entering trust. And we're again inviting the Storting to cooperation. Immediately after the report was presented, I asked the President of Stortinge to report on the report and the work for better preparedness. I am pleased that the Stortinget could gather so quickly to get explanations from me and the Minister of Justice and Defence about this work. I would first like to say something about the Commission's main findings. And about our answers and assessments related to these. Then I will go through other important findings in the report and our follow-up in the future. The Commission has six main conclusions. These are, in the Commission's own words: ‘– The attack on the Government Quartet 22/7 could have been prevented by the effective implementation of the security measures already adopted. – The ability of the authorities to protect the human beings on the Verying failed. A faster police action was really possible. The contractor could have stopped earlier 22/7. – Several protective and emergency measures to facilitate new attacks and reduce the adverse effects should have been implemented on 22/7. – The health and rescue work performed them well in the emergency phase and related to them. – The government’s communication to the population was good. The ministries had the power to continue their work despite the damage. – With a better work methodology and a broader focus, the PST could have come onto the trail by the perpetrator before 22/7. However, the Commission has no grounds to say that the PST could and should have prevented the attacks.» This is serious finding. They show that too much failure. Important parts of our preparedness and capacity for crisis management were not good enough when it really happened. The Commission points out that our challenge is profound. Where it failed, it was primarily due to the basic condition: The problem is not that there are no plans, but that the plans were not implemented. The problem is not that exercises are not conducted, but that the ability to learn from them is too small. The problem is not primarily the lack of resources, legislation or organisation, but cultures, attitudes towards preparedness and the ability to interact. And the Commission itself points out the direction for what needs to be done: ‘Trading 22/7 identifies the need for many types of change: in planning and regulation, in the disposal of competences and resources, in organisational culture, priorities and focus, yes, even in society’s attitudes. Some of these amendments may be adopted by an authority. It is the simplest changes to make, if only the political will is there. Other and more fundamental changes – in attitudes, leadership and culture – need to be developed over time.’ The Commission is clear that their main recommendation is not to grant more money — whether it is for police, defence, equipment or investigation. On the contrary, the report states: ‘The main recommendation of the Commission is that managers at all levels of administration are systematically working to strengthen their own and the organisations’ basic attitudes and culture related to – risk recognition, – capacity to implement, – interaction, – ICT exploitation, and – performance-oriented leadership.’ It is more than just a decision. We have to act on many levels. The least demanding is to grant more money, to adopt plans. Decide on reorganisations. The most important job is bigger. It's about leadership. strengthening of attitudes; Change in crops related to preparedness. Understanding dangers in a safe society. The responsibility for this lies with the leaders at all levels. With the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, the administrative management of the departments, of each department and of each local office, in each department and activity. Everyone in this room understands the problem we're facing. We will call for the best in the history and culture of administration: duty, responsibility, loyalty and integrity. Together, we're going to show that Norwegian administration is able to meet the challenge. To recognize it as a failure. To gather us on the core mission: the security of the citizen. The security of society. And we have to start at the top: I've already told the government councils to start strengthening their own and the ministry's basic position on risk recognition and enforcement. The Government has decided to hold specific meetings on social security and preparedness. For the Minister of Justice and Preparedness, this first and most important recommendation from the Commission will be governing the review of the situation in the Norwegian police force. The Minister for Renewal and Administration will convene all top leaders of the State to an extraordinary meeting later this autumn. The main theme here will be the responsibility of the leaders for culture and attitudes to preparedness. I myself will begin this conference, together with the Minister of Justice and Defence and the Minister of Renewal. Competent change management is essential to improve. In addition to learning from mistakes, we will learn from what worked. We will go through thoroughly what worked in the health sector and in defence, with a view to transferring learning and giving inspiration to other sectors. We will learn from the petroleum sector, where actors have worked for a long time to establish a good culture of security and preparedness. And we're going to draw on experiences from other countries and learn from them. Let me share a confession with the Storting. The Commission demonstrates a failure in Norwegian preparedness and preparedness culture that is more extensive and deeper than I was prepared for. It's hard to take over. The more certain I am that we should correct the errors. Create the opposite of what is criticized. A leadership that creates pride in preparedness and security. A leadership that is given a decision-making process. A clear leadership. We are not going to have a decision on our own. We'll meet resistance, and it'll take time. But there should never be any doubt about the direction and the goal. For me, this is going to be a main problem. I'm going to solve it. A key question in the debate that has followed in the wake of the Commission’s suspension is responsibility. What does it mean to have responsibility? And what does it mean to take responsibility? It is the authorities that are responsible for the preparedness. That is why I have several times stated: I have the top responsibility. For the emergency response, for the defense, for the health service. I have the top responsibility for what went wrong, and what went well, in the handling on 22 July. Me and the government take responsibility after July 22nd. First, we took responsibility for knowing. We appointed the Commission to work independently of government, corruption and administration. The result is a report that enhances public confidence. We've got a common sense of reality. And then we take responsibility for acting. We're going to use the knowledge we've gained to create greater security. We're going to reduce the risk of attack, and we're going to reduce the impact if that happens anyway. The primary responsibility of the Prime Minister does not relieve others of their responsibilities. According to our state practice, the individual Council of State has the constitutional responsibility in its field, within the laws and appropriations given by the Stortinget. The various departments and businesses are responsible. Several departments in both the municipality and the state are responsible for different parts of the emergency response. The Police Directorate is responsible for how the police operate. Health undertakings are responsible for medical preparedness. This must be firm. Otherwise, we are at risk of responsibilities confusion, responsibilities powdering and confusion. The size has been clear that we build our readiness on the principle of responsibility and the principle of subsidiarity. The principle of responsibility means that the authority or body responsible for an area on a daily basis is also responsible for the necessary preparedness and for the performance of the service in the event of crises and disasters. The principle of subsidiarity means that crises should be dealt with at the lowest possible level. The one with the greatest proximity to a crisis is the one who is best suited to handle it. First, however, it is crucial that each emergency seat is both able to take this responsibility and, secondly, that it actually does so during a crisis. The Government and the Storting are responsible for the first. Each director is responsible for the other. But let me remind you of the most important thing when we talk about responsibility. It's the perpetrator who's responsible for the grievances. And he alone. We must never forget that. Before I go to the next follow-up, I will briefly review other key findings in the report. First a few words about the police. A basic task for the police is to protect the citizens. The review by the Commission on 22 July of the police's management of the terrorist attacks in the government quarter and on the Utøya shows that it has failed in significant respects. The police’s handling of the attacks was hampered by the scarcity of personnel in key functions and by the lack of tools for interaction both internally in the police districts and between the relevant police districts. Securing society against possible new attacks and attacks by the perpetrator was given too little attention. Operational measures to avert or prepare for any secondary estimation could have led to the car and the perpetrator being discovered. The alerting of own crews and requests for assistance from neighbouring districts did not work well enough. The plans to be used for terrorist attacks were not used. The Commission shows that the police lack a comprehensive and up-to-date ICT strategy. We know that there have been long-standing challenges related to ICT in the police. Problems were identified by the Riksrevision as early as 1998. Furthermore, it states that failure and lack of coordination delayed the police’s arrival in Utøya. But it also indicates that when the police first arrived, they showed an impressive power of action and attacked the perpetrator very quickly. And it also points out that the police's efforts in the rescue work in Oslo and Utjay were significant. The Commission identifies weaknesses in the PST procedures and procedures and the need in the service to show greater urgency, creativity and willingness to identify new threats. The Minister of Justice and Security will come back to lessons from this. So for the guarantee of the government quarter. The Commission points to significant deficiencies and concludes that the attack on the government quarter could have been prevented. In the autumn of 2002, a comprehensive project for a total analysis and government security plan was launched under different threat scenarios. This is referred to as the safety project. The aim was to ensure the best possible functioning of the individual member of government, while at the same time maintaining the function of the government as a college in various accident, emergency and emergency situations. It ended up becoming a little more comprehensive — to improve the security of the entire government quarter. In the Commission's view, this was a far-sighted and good initiative. Work resulted in a number of analyses and recommendations of interventions. Much was carried out by various departments. A concrete result of the security project was that the Prime Minister's office had long before 22 July developed plans and practised relocating from the Government Quartet, which according to the Commission made the office well equipped to deal with the situation on 22 July. Part of the safety project was government quarterly security measures. This section included 197 measures against various threats. The responsibility for follow-up was that of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. And in the years from 2005 to 2011, the security of the government quarter was significantly upgraded, among others. in the case of various physical barriers, enhanced access control and penetration equipment and in the case of protection of windows. It was accomplished and probably saved lives. However, a significant and important measure had not yet been completed: the recommendation to close the Grubbegata. For five years the case was dealt with in the state and municipality. The start-up authorisation was granted in October 2010. On July 22, 2011, it was started, but the street was not yet closed. The work would have been completed in October. It was too late. The Commission’s report provides a thorough review of why this process took so long. It points to a lack of risk recognition, control-command. And it points out that a state regulatory plan would be faster. I think the Commission is right. The government will have a lower threshold to implement a government plan in the future, but will also assess the need for other measures to ensure a faster procedure. Both the failure of the police and the closure of the Grubbegata show great weaknesses — to avert crises and to deal with them when they occur. At the same time, the Commission also shows that much was handled well on 22 July last year. It is important to bring with it, not least to learn and to transfer to other sectors. These include: on the work on health and rescue. The Commission points out that in the first phase health and fire and rescue services were well cared for by injured and relatives. The health service quickly mobilised large resources when the bomb exploded in the government quarter. The whole region was mobilized. Ambulances in Sweden were also on standby, ready to move in if necessary. Ullevål University Hospital gave the most critically damaged treatment of high quality. Bad hospitals also made significant efforts. Several hospitals in the area accepted patients. Hole Municipality and Sundvolden Hotel met the basic needs of those affected on Ut Island and their relatives. Many volunteers did an important job. Also in the defense functioned very well. The Commission notes that the preparedness and capabilities of the defence were not put to a real test on 22 July. But the defense was able to clarify the support capacities requested by the police, and the overall margin. The defense was well prepared. The Commission has identified errors, deficiencies and inadequacies — in what was done on 22 July and in the weeks, months and years before. It points to the failure of our systems and to the specific misassessments that were made. The right choices were made both on 22 July and before, but wrong decisions were also made. And important decisions were not taken. Three of the Commission's conclusions are that the pit hole should have been closed. It wasn't. The builder could have stopped earlier. He didn't. Several safeguard and preparedness measures should have been implemented. It didn't happen. I'm sorry. We can never correct mistakes in the past. On the other hand, we can learn from the past. Recognise that we did wrong. And do what we need to do to create a safer future. I'll now go into what we've done and what we'll do in the future. In recent years, efforts have been made to improve preparedness in many fields. We have significantly strengthened the rescue helicopter service. It is now required that six helicopters — in all parts of the country — be ready at 15 minutes’ notice. The emergency network has been adopted. Appropriations have been granted. It's being expanded. The police have been given increased resources. More policemen are trained. The emergency response and the PST have been given increased funding — more decorating. The defense has been modernised. It has given better ability to assist police in emergency work. But we saw on 22 July last – with all the clarity – that this has not been enough. Therefore, the government has not waited for the Commission report until we have taken action. We've learned that time is precious. It is important to act quickly. In the last year, several measures to strengthen preparedness are either put in place or under work. Through the Special Committee, the size has been highly committed and has proposed concrete measures. The government presented the Annual Report on Social Security in June and the Long-term Defence Plan in March. Together, these two messages deal with civil and military preparedness. At the same time, last year's terrorist acts have highlighted the need for enhanced coordination of work on social security and preparedness. Questions have been raised about the coordination of security and preparedness functions should be added to the Office of the Prime Minister and brought together there. The Commission does not recommend it. It points to close links between police tasks and the general security and preparedness of society. This is the background to the fact that both this government and the previous one have chosen to add this responsibility to the Ministry of Justice. When Grete Faremo was appointed Minister of Justice and Defence, this was reinforced and made clear. She was given a clear and strong mandate in charge of security and emergency services, and the ministry was given a strengthened role as a driver of other departments and public enterprises. In June, a new instruction was laid down for this work. A number of individual measures have been implemented or launched since 22 July last year. The helicopter readiness of the police has been strengthened and will be further strengthened. Last September, we reestablished the military helicopter on Rygge. A new civil situation centre related to the crisis support unit has been established. Measures to increase the capacity to receive calls on emergency telephone 112 have been implemented. New instructions have been adopted for the defence assistance to the police, with greater demands for cooperation between the police and the defence. We have launched an external review of the resource situation in PST. A new national alarm system is under investigation and will be implemented as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the existing system has been tested and improved. It's recently used and worked. Central crisis management has been reinforced by the clarification of the role of the Council of Crisis. The Council shall meet regularly to review relevant events and exercises. We have sent proposals on, inter alia: criminalisation of preparation for acts of terrorism to be consulted. A new Security Department has been set up in the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, which is also responsible for the reconstruction of the new government quarter. The arrangements and tasks of the Home Guard relating to object protection are made clear in the Long-term Plan of Defence, and the HM Kongen Guard has been given an expanded capital assignment. The Swedish Police College has been subject to a training and maintenance programme for response personnel. From next year, annual training will be provided on the theme of ‘shooting ongoing’ for several groups of police officers. The emergency grid is further expanded. We are introducing a new high-grade data communication system between the departments and central response actors. The size agreed to introduce a new priority scheme in the mobile network. It shall be in place during 2013. New national guidelines on ICT security will be published during the year. The Health Directorate and the Police Directorate shall establish common guidelines for the interaction of unsafe sites. We have reinforced the requirements for exercises to train the crisis organisation in the departments. In the last year, the government has implemented comprehensive measures relating to government quarterly security. Watchkeeping's been tightened up. Some streets are blocked. Several of the measures I have now mentioned are in line with the recommendations of the Special Committee of the European Parliament. Priority will be given to the follow-up to the Committee's recommendations and the updated work status will be given to the Stortinget. There has been a change of pace. Much has been done in the last year, but there is a need for more. We will make more initiatives, measures and changes. All 31 Commission recommendations are carefully reviewed and evaluated and the evaluations will be presented to the Stortinget. The Minister of Justice and Security is responsible for this and will provide a comprehensive report on this follow-up as soon as possible. But for some of the proposals, follow-up can start immediately. Let me mention someone: first, we're going to do more practice and practice better. At all levels of administration, we should regularly practice crisis management, practice coordination and interaction within and between agencies. We're going to improve the work of subtracting lessons from these exercises. In the state budget, presented in October, we will propose increased appropriations for preparedness planning, exercises, crisis management and supervision. Secondly, we're starting to set up a new security center for the police in Oslo. The aim is to bring together the police helicopter service, the emergency squad and the dog service in the Oslo police district. It will improve coordination and reduce response time. Yesterday, the Minister of Transport sent a letter to the NSB and the Railway Agency informing them that the land in question on Alna in the Grorud Valley should be made available for this purpose. The plot is today owned by the property company of the NSB, Rome Eiendom. We will propose appropriations in next year's government budget for the design of this centre. Thirdly, we strengthen the defense's ability to assist the police in emergency situations. From January next year, the military helicopter standby on Back shall be able to provide enforcement assistance, i.e. to fly in and participate in sharp missions. And we have started work to legislate on the instructions on the defence assistance to the police, which the Commission has recommended. Fourth, we're strengthening the work on securing objects that can be especially vulnerable to attack. On Friday, the King of State Council approved an instruction clarifying the roles and responsibilities of object security with police and defence security forces. Fifthly, the Minister of Health and Welfare has reviewed the Commission’s recommendations in the field of health. It is about clarifying the understanding of health professionals’ law, so that health professionals can use the exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy in emergency situations, and about maintaining capacity and flexibility and ensuring resources for exercises. The Minister for Health agrees with the Commission. The Health Directorate and the Regional Health Enterprises have already been assigned to follow-up in cooperation with municipalities. The Minister for Justice and Security will discuss further measures in his statement. As this review has shown, the government has implemented and will implement many large and small measures. It's important, and we're impatient. That is why we have not been waiting for the Commission and for the big message before we have started implementing measures. However, let me warn against demands for hasty measures and seemingly simple solutions. Often in this kind of work, we're going to be in dilemmas. Political governance requires difficult balances. One important balance is between overall political governance and control on all the issues that need to be addressed. It has been said that good political governance is governance at large and not in small terms – that state councils should govern at arm's length and along the long lines, that we should give professional freedom to underlying agencies. The Commission asks whether the management of the Police Directorate has been too detailed. At the same time, we know that the policy can be detailed. It is on the results the policy is measured – every day. As this hall knows so well, this can be about very specific individual matters and thus harmonizes poorly with steering at large. The answer is probably not either framework management or detailed management, either professional independence or political governance, either full and complete implementation responsibility or no responsibility. It's a balance we have to be conscious of. We must promote, not inhibit, the capacity for implementation. We must make demands for results, but at the same time have the ability to separate the important from the less important. The Commission notes that the expectations in the field of preparedness have been unclear in comparison with those in other areas. It points to something we often experience when setting targets: the focus is on what can be measured and counted. Other tasks will be harmed. Therefore, we do not need more targets, probably fewer, but above all better targets – targets that should be constant as far as possible over time. We also need the ability to give priority to the objectives. Some goals are more important than others. Another consideration is about efficiency and involvement. This applies, for example: the relationship between government plan and municipal level and the relationship between thorough consultation and rapid implementation. For all, we want action and effective implementation of decisions. But good decisions also require us to present counter-representatives and listen to proposals for solutions other than our own. We're going to look for counter-conceptions – professional and political. That's when decision and implementation take time. Sometimes we still have to cut through – even when the arguments are relevant and someone would have wanted a more thorough process. But here, too, it's a balance. It is not right to put a line on local democracy and local authorities' planning responsibilities. Many opposed the closure of Grubbegata. Someone was very busy. And someone was opposed even after getting information from the police about how important they thought this was. A third assessment is about transparency and security. We want more openness, but never naivety. This could be consideration that is opposed to each other. The Commission considers that enlargement and government have made reasonable comparisons between transparency and security on the issues it has considered. But we're not done with these kinds of balances once and for all. We'll meet them again and again. Full transparency does not promote security. On the other hand, a hundred percent secure society is not an open society. It's a society that none of us want to live in. Here too, the closure of Grubbegata is a good example. It came too late, and it's tragic. But if the street had been closed, no attack on the Oslo Centre had necessarily been averted. We look from other countries with significantly more safeguards around authority targets that terror hits more unprotected targets. Crisis gives learning and deeper recognition. In the event of crises, sometimes with tragic results. At the same time, the errors help to improve us. In Norway, lessons learned from disasters such as ‘Alexander Kielland’, ‘Scandinavian Star’ and tsunami have given us systems that work better than before. And so is terror. The United Kingdom and Spain are countries that have been subjected to terrorist acts for decades. The United States has also been brutally hit. Nevertheless, errors were made in the handling of attacks in New York in 2001, Madrid in 2004 and London in 2005. This is reflected in the Commission's report. Errors learned later in the various countries and used to improve routines and systems. July 22nd gave us such lessons. The price was meaningless, but we have obligations to use it to make Norway safer. I will end with three important reminders. The first is that in all the critical things, we must not forget all the individuals who made an extraordinary effort in an atmosphere of chaos and fear. Those who themselves were hit in the government quarter and on Utøya, volunteers who were nearby, police and health professionals, staff in offices and offices. The second is that we must not forget that the fight against terrorism is about more than preparedness and crisis management. Work against radicalisation and violence takes place in different arenas: through an inclusive school, through trusting dialogue between religions, through sustained efforts against a society in which individuals are marginalised. The third and most important is this: each of us can stand up for the ideals of democracy. Everyone can guard against signs of violent extremism. Each of us can alert about the failure of preparedness. Together, we are our strongest protection against violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e555	The Commission's report of 22 July is serious. We weren't well enough prepared. Too much failure. Back are people with irreparable losses. A job has to be done, and it's urgent. As the State Council responsible for security and preparedness functions, I have a clear mandate: to ensure that Norway can meet the risk and vulnerability challenges we face. It requires the overall preparedness to be strengthened. I base the Commission's report on this work. In addition, the decisions and recommendations of the EEAS and the EEAS will be central. The Commission writes: ‘In our view, Storing and government, through the provision of big business messages and key laws in the field of social security, has made reasonable balances between transparency and security and, in most areas, has set reasonable ambitions for the level of security in society. The challenge lies in creating a better match between words and action.’ It is a leadership responsibility to create a better match between words and action, to get what has been adopted, to work according to purpose, to establish good governance models, to be a driving force for interaction. I will fulfil my duty to provide the Storting with a good basis for the adoption of laws and budgets, and to exercise control over my exercise of power and governance within the framework of the Storting. The experience gained from the cooperation with the Special Committee promises good for the further process. The Commission has 31 proposals for action to improve preparedness. It's been a short time since the report was presented. The robust review of the proposals will be presented in the keynote issued by the Prime Minister. There we will also get closer to deadlines and processes. The Commission says that the lessons learnt are more about: ‘management, interaction, culture and attitudes — other than lack of resources, need for new legislation, organisation or large value choices’. At the same time, the Commission points out that several of its recommendations will require investment and entail costs. Therefore, it is natural that some of the recommendations are followed up in budgetary proposals for the next and next years. I want to use the opportunity here today to say something about where we are working on the rapid and targeted implementation of the necessary measures. I follow the Commission's thematic breakdown and recommendations. Consequently, I would like to say something about: measures at national level changes to criminal law measures in the police, including assistance from the Defence Force in the rescue services measures relating to the security and intelligence services; Finally, I would like to point out some of the difficult balances we are facing in this work. First on action at national level. The Commission refers to it as its main recommendation ‘that managers at all levels of administration systematically work to strengthen their own and the organisations’ basic attitudes and culture related to – risk recognition, – capacity to implement, – interaction, – use of ICT, and – performance-oriented leadership’. As stated by the Prime Minister, this recommendation must underpin efforts to improve preparedness in all sectors and in all departments. There are fundamental changes that need to be made – in attitudes, leadership and culture. These may not be adopted. They need to evolve over time. But we have to start now. And we have to start at the top -- with ourselves. I put enhanced leadership and change management on the agenda, both in the Ministry of Justice and Defence and in the justice sector. I will ensure that the Ministry of Justice and Security follows up the Commission’s clear recommendation to ‘put performance-oriented work with security and preparedness higher on its agenda’. Neither performance-oriented leadership nor target management is new to us. However, we need to improve on setting deadlines, and we need to ensure that there are consequences if deadlines are not met. Through a specific change programme for the Ministry, I want to strengthen our capacity to handle tasks such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t analysis of robustness in critical societal functions and structures crisis management capacity role in favour of other ministries of social security and preparedness This shall also be taken into account in the Ministry's reporting to the Stortinge in the annual budget proposals. There was a lot about the central crisis management that didn't work well enough on July 22nd. The Commission emphasises that communication to the population was good, but there were gaps in internal communication. The Commission writes: ‘In addition, important information went up and down the system outside the line, making it difficult to establish a common understanding of the situation. In the event of serious crises, it is important to establish a single central reporting point in the crisis management.’;» To respond better to the next crisis, we have established a civil situation centre in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It will contribute to a better understanding and analysis of crises, in particular with regard to the time-critical first decisions, such as: to set staff, alerts and situation reporting. The government has strengthened and further developed the administrative apparatus for central crisis management. The Ministry of Justice and Defence shall be the Permanent Ministry of State in the event of civil national crises. The responsibility for this has been clarified and the tasks have been further clarified. The Crisis Council will meet regularly to review relevant events and exercises, in line with the recommendations of the Commission. The first meetings of the new model have recently been completed. In line with the Commission's recommendations, we will establish classified links and good procedures for information flows between departments and underlying agencies. It shall be used in day-to-day safety work and in the event of crises. Last Friday, the Government adopted an overall instruction on the designation and classification of objects to be secured by securing forces. Police and Defence are now monitoring protective and societally important objects that may be exposed to terrorist acts. I, together with the Minister of Defence, want to ensure swift follow-up to the police and the defence. Pursuant to the Code on Object Safety of the Security Act which entered into force on 1 January 2011, all departments are to map and designate vulnerable objects in their own sector. Plans shall be drawn up for their protection as soon as possible and by the end of this year. The implementation of security measures and the organisation of security forces shall be completed by the end of 2013. Object owners' obligations to facilitate the exercise of protection by defence and police forces. In order to ensure better interaction across societal sectors, the government of the Social Security Communication has introduced a new principle – the interoperability principle – in national social security and preparedness work. The Commission welcomes the introduction of this principle. My department has a responsibility to coordinate work on social security and preparedness in the departments and underlying agencies. This coordination responsibility includes, inter alia: I will ensure that all departments follow the Commission's main recommendation. By 1 October, the following shall be reported: clear priorities clear objectives for the safety and preparedness tasks management awareness of results The Ministry of Justice and Defence shall intensify and strengthen supervisory activities with other departments and departments. Oversight shall ensure that all departments: have an overview of the risks and vulnerabilities in its own sector implementing measures to address deficiencies in robustness in critical areas developing and maintaining emergency plans regularly; My department must also be supervised. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness will be responsible for supervision and the supervisory reports will be sent to another department. The results of supervision will be important contributions to the further development of our preparedness work. Plans are important in preparing for future events. We must also use the plans when the crisis occurs. The Commission is aware that this was not the case on 22 July. The Government will consider drawing up an overall instruction for the emergency plan. That is how we can ensure good cooperation and clear responsibilities and command lines between the civil and military sides and between the different levels of administration when a crisis arises. I am concerned that the plan will maintain a high quality. This requires a closer look at the central civil protection system. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness will shortly make a recommendation on how key contingency plans should be set up in the future. The Commission points out that we need to practice using the plans, and we need to learn from the improvement points that the exercises reveal. We haven't been good enough to do that. Lessons from exercises must be equated with learning points from real crises. The Ministry of Justice and Defence will require all departments to follow up and systematise the learning points after exercises. This shall be reported. So a little bit about changes in criminal law. Today's criminal law § 161 prohibits capacity building when it is done with the intention of committing serious crime. The Commission recommends that this criminal provision should be continued in the new penal code of 2005. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is in favour of the proposal. We have sent a similar proposal at the hearing, with the deadline for consultation on 1 November. We have also sent to the hearing a proposal to criminalise the presence on the training camp for terrorism and to receive terrorist training. I would like to stress that the government has not concluded on the issue of whether new penalties for terrorism should be adopted. The Commission also recommends that semi-automatic weapons should be prohibited. The committee that has been subject to arms legislation did not propose a total ban on semi-automatic weapons. The Committee on Arms Law has been consulted. The Government shall evaluate the hearing opinions and the Commission’s proposals. We will come back to Stortinget with proposals, possibly with changes within existing regulations, as soon as possible. So to police action, including assistance from the Defense Department: As the Prime Minister pointed out, the Commission pointed to a number of weaknesses in the police handling of the attacks. 15 of the 31 recommendations deal with the police. The Commission recommends that the Police Directorate establish a better link between objectives, priorities and resource use. In addition, the Directorate must have greater responsibility for coordination, efficiency and more coherent solutions. I expect the police director to make this visible in the management dialogue with the police officers. It is essential to establish a culture of delivery at the right time and with the right quality, as I have already explained. This is a significant leadership task for the police director. He's actually working on a wide-ranging change programme in the Police Directorate. The Leader Group will be expanded to enhance the competence and enforcement of police top management. The police director has also taken structural action by setting up a separate preparedness department. The Directorate has developed a new leadership platform that forms the basis for the work on strengthening police leadership. A reinforced focus on management is necessary. An important message in this platform is the importance of clear goals and achievements – a responsibility that rests on each police officer. Earlier this year, I have been working on an external review of the Police Directorate. The aim is to identify the extent to which the directorate meets the requirements set in the establishment in 2001 and the changes in assumptions that have occurred since then and until now. The aim of the evaluation is to assess the directorate’s task portfolio and the professional nature of the task solution, including: related to the strategic role of the Police Directorate. The report is scheduled to be completed on 1 March next year. I am also working on a new directive for the directorate to clarify the responsibility and role of the police department. One of the Commission’s main recommendations is better use of ICT in the police. It will release administrative resources for operational work. The work on renewing ICT systems in the police action has been ongoing for a number of years. ICTs have been repeatedly, repeatedly, in budget proposals and reports, important. But it hasn't been given sufficient priority. This is why it is imperative to achieve better governance of ICT in the police. Organisation, management and proper competence are also important keywords here. It's not ICT in itself that will give us a better police force. It is the will and ability to use ICT to become better that is crucial. This has to be in the right order. We have now adopted a concept strategy for the criminal justice systems in the police. This implies a substantial renewal. The total project is delayed. We will have to implement it in several phases, with independent deliveries and quality assurance along the way. But this is absolutely necessary to improve the management of the project. Prior to the launch of the main project, there is a need to implement police competence-enhancing measures. In the meantime, the Police Directorate needs to rapidly develop a clear, comprehensive ICT strategy to optimise the use of current systems. As the Commission says, ‘the opportunities offered by today’s systems are already greater than those actually being used’. The police director will set up a new ICT and technology department to increase the competence of the Directorate and strengthen the governance of the ICT area in the police. It's positive. I will follow this work closely through the governance dialogue with the Police Directorate. The police data and material service has taken action to increase the technical capacity of emergency number 112. A two-year test project with a common emergency number and common emergency centre for fire services, police and health services is now being carried out in the Drammen. External evaluation is ongoing. Today's national alarm system isn't good enough. The government expects a new system to be put in place quickly by the Police Directorate. I will follow this work closely. In the meantime, I have assured myself that the existing national alarm system is working as intended, and that it is being tested regularly. In many areas, there is a lack of consistency between the Police Directorate’s own evaluation and the Commission’s report on the events on 22 July. In the Communication on Social Security, the government asked the Directorate of Police to review parts of the action on Utøla. The aim is to identify further learning points. In particular, we would like to have an assessment of whether the uncertainties surrounding the understanding of the ‘shooting’ policy are being satisfactorily clarified. We will come back to this in the coming big message. The police planning and competence for situation reporting shall be reviewed. The Directorate of Police, as described in the Social Security Communication, shall establish contacts between the Directorates concerned. The aim is to establish national guidelines for cooperation between the health, fire and rescue services and the police on alert, responsibilities and cooperation procedures in response. The Health Directorate and the Police Directorate are already developing common guidelines for interaction in areas that cannot be declared ‘cleared area’. The completion of the guidelines is a high priority. We will provide new, complementary information at these points in the forthcoming Communication. The Commission has also identified the need for an updated rescue service plan. The Ministry will follow this up by setting out a new instruction and sending out a new rescue service manual. The Oslo Operation Centre is planned to be expanded. A new emergency centre bringing together the emergency team, the dog service and police helicopters is under way, in line with the Commission’s recommendation. As the Prime Minister explained, the land has now been set aside for this purpose. This is an important milestone. We are now starting a thorough investigation process to quickly clarify the remaining conditions in order to start the project. I will come back to this work in the State budget, including an assessment of state regulation and a more detailed assessment of progress. The Commission recommends the establishment of a national police operation centre as a scalable part of the Oslo Operation Centre. We will carefully consider this proposal. I am also concerned about ensuring the competence to conduct major operations outside Oslo. I also want to get back to this in the Storing Message. The police helicopter has been provided with means to ensure day-to-day continuous operation, in line with the Commission’s recommendation. The original goal of the government was that this should be in place on 1 June. The police's management has not been able to deliver; some guards are still standing unmanned. New pilots shall be in place from 1 September. Before these are checked out to be able to run the police helicopter, I have asked the Police Directorate to implement all assistance measures to ensure 24-hour continuous operation as soon as possible. I follow this work closely. We have prepared guidelines for the use of rescue helicopters for police transport in time-critical situations. These are standing by 15 minutes on six bases around the country. It could also help to reduce police response time. The government has decided to continue military helicopter preparedness on Rygge. I am now working with the Minister of Defense to extend my preparedness to include enforcement assistance. The Government has adopted a new aid instruction to ensure the most effective cooperation between police and defence in crisis situations. It provides a clear formal framework for support to the police around the Defence Agency and provides us with flexible cooperation arrangements when crises occur. The work on legal regulation of the defence assistance to the police is under way. A high priority has been given and will be sent to the Stortinget as soon as possible. Overall, the Commission points to many challenges related to management, interaction and use of technology in terms of police review. The Commission says: ‘In order to take a closer look at the manning and general resource situation, the Ministry of Justice and Security, the police and the PST must therefore, to a much greater extent than so far, set priorities, set security and preparedness objectives, manage the significant human resources they actually possess, and monitor the achievement of results. This requires leadership.’» This leadership I will take. For this reason, I have entrusted the police management with the task of structuring work to improve the ability of rapid response in major incidents, the ability of – as stated in the report – ‘... to press the very largest button’. At the same time, there has to be a better match between duties and staffing. Operational preparedness needs to be strengthened on the days of the week that experience gives the police the most outreach tasks, without compromising the overall preparedness that must be in place 24 hours seven days a week. I will follow this work closely, with my own meetings, to ensure progress. The Commission’s recommendation suggests that we first need to focus on a performance reform in order to improve preparedness. It's urgent. We must also ensure a forward-looking police force that fights crime in a modern and public way. Then we need a more thorough analysis and review of the situation in the police than we have. Therefore, I have come to the conclusion that it is not appropriate to present a separate, wide-ranging report on performance reform in the police department already in the autumn as previously announced. In the Annual Report on the 22nd July Commission, I will include the work of the performance reform on police preparedness, as well as explain how the broad review of the police is to be designed and implemented. A little about measures related to the rescue operations. The investment in new digital radio communications, emergency networks, across the country is one of the greatest efforts ever to ensure social security. I want to make sure that expansion takes place in line with Storting's decisions and appropriations. It is being developed in full and within an ambitious but realistic timetable. The emergency measures have a separate responsibility for establishing good interaction procedures. During the period until new emergency networks are nationwide, the Emergency Communications Directorate has ensured that exercises and interactions are carried out between users of old systems and new emergency networks. These are measures to help reduce the challenges associated with different interconnector systems during the deployment period. So, for security and intelligence measures. The Commission points out that the police security service must show greater urgency, creativity and willingness to identify new threats. In the light of its own evaluation, the PST has initiated actions. These have been reinforced in the light of the Commission's report of 22 July. The strategic plan of the service will be revised to develop culture and attitudes. In the follow-up work, the PST will pay particular attention to revising the plan, conducting internal training and frequent exercises. The government has appointed a sample, led by Kim Traavik, who conducts an external review of the PST. The selection focuses on how the service uses its resources, makes priorities, work processes, competences and organisation in the light of the threat picture and the resource situation. The selection has communicated that they will also take advantage of the assessments and proposals of the Commission report. The report of the sample will be available by 1 December of this year at the latest. This report will be an important element in clarifying the target and performance management of the PST and other follow-up to the Commission’s recommendations. The crisis management tool in the PST will be reviewed. New log is already in place. A new overall ICT strategy will be developed to help streamline PST response. A new procedural instruction will be provided to ensure a consistent approach. The Government has notified that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence jointly assess the development of a common, overall and open risk and threat assessment for the Norwegian community. This will ensure proper coordination of the security and intelligence service. I will give this work a high priority. The work of the Joint Analysis Unit between the Police Security Service and the E Service has resulted in closer and better cooperation between the services. However, I believe, as the Commission, that the unit has a greater potential. I will take this initiative to develop further, along with the Minister of Defence. The Commission has made further recommendations that the government should consider changes in cooperation solutions, information exchange and confidentiality rules. It also highlights the need to clarify the role of the PST in cyberspace. The proposals will be carefully considered. Before reflecting on difficult balances in the follow-up work ahead, I would like to stress the importance of a broad prevention effort as crucial to our security. As the Commission writes, it is ‘important and would deserve more attention than this Commission could reach’. Crime prevention is an important part of prevention work. The government has presented two key action plans, ‘Good Forces’ from 2009 and ‘Common Security — Joint Responsibility — Action Plan to Prevent Radicalisation and Violent Extremism’ from 2010. The latter assumes that radicalisation and violent extremism are cross-sectoral challenges in which causes and opportunities for prevention can lie within the responsibilities of several public bodies. Cooperation between police and other local actors will be important for prevention at an early stage. I would like to highlight police councils as an important formalised cooperation between local police and municipal authorities. The new thing is that it has now also been set up to address issues of radicalisation in the police council. In our society, we have set a clear framework for privacy. Each of us must be assured of the incorrect use of information. At the same time, there is no doubt that personal data can be essential for the police to prevent, avert and investigate criminal acts – acts that we want to protect citizens from. Are we sure that we have found the right balance between privacy and security? This is an important discussion we also need to be able to address in the context of the follow-up to the report of the 22nd July Commission. Furthermore, it is essential that Norwegian police and police security services cooperate with the police authorities of other countries, both to prevent and investigate serious criminal acts on Norwegian soil and to contribute to the international fight against serious crime. This imposes strict requirements for cooperation with the police in countries that do not have the same legal security framework as Norway. How far can such cooperation go in order to avert criminal acts? How do we ensure control of information so that we fulfil our international obligations to respect human rights? These are demanding balances. Another dilemma is the use of rescue helicopters for police transport support. The rescue helicopters save lives, often at sea. They therefore need to be as easily equipped as possible to maximise their reach. On the other hand, if we are to ensure a 15-minute response time for police support on sharp missions, rescue helicopters must be permanently equipped with the necessary protection. The weight of the protective equipment reduces the radius of the helicopters, which in turn reduces the possibility of conducting rescue operations at sea. Once again, we have to make difficult choices as to how important interests and security measures are to be set against each other. I would also like to refer to previous debates on the armaments of the Norwegian police. I believe that an unarmed police force will help to dampen the use of violence and weapons in Norway. But we have to recognize that there will then be dilemmas related to the security of officials and the possible timing of armed action. What I'm trying to show is that in almost every area, we're facing dilemmas and conflicting considerations. We have to live with such dilemmas. Total security is not possible. We still have to take the important debates on where the boundaries between the different considerations should go. We have to be able to see the whole picture. Although the Commission's report on 22 July is disappointing in many areas, it also contains points of light. There was also a lot that was done correctly that day. The Commission mentions several ‘samplings of heroism, commitment and care’. Many individuals made an outstanding effort to reduce the adverse effects of the attacks, both professional and voluntary, friends and colleagues, accidentally passing by — many with a risk of their own lives. We're going to take that with us and build on it, because it's the people who are our most important preparedness resource. People will still be most important when we are now working to improve. Among those who work in the police and the other emergency services, it is very positive to pick up. As the Commission itself writes: ‘The police are one of the most important institutions in society and are characterised by a high level of competence and significant personal involvement of managers and employees.’ I want to use this opportunity to highlight the good police work that is actually done 24 hours a day, all year. But we also have to admit openly and honestly errors when they are committed. We must show the will and ability to change and develop. The July 22 report of the Commission has given us a unique platform for this. I am humble to the task ahead of us, but at the same time I dare to be optimistic. In a common sense, we have the best prerequisites for lifting preparedness. And more than this: the security of society is also fundamentally dependent on the values we want our society to build on: democracy and openness, solidarity and trust. Our common security is also a shared responsibility. I look forward to a good interaction with Stortinget and Stortinget's organs in the work ahead of us. Such interaction is necessary to ensure the safety of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e820	The President will now propose opening a comment round on the basis of Article 34(a) of the Storting Rules of Procedure, but with the following amendments: Each group of lots is given a speaking time of up to 10 minutes and is given the opportunity to divide it into two five-minute posts. After the first post of each party group from the opposition, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Justice and Preparedness will be able to answer questions with a speaking time of up to 2 minutes. The answer can be commented on by the speaker in question, and here, too, speaking time is up to 2 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e829	First, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for so quickly taking the initiative to come here and explain to the Stortinget. I believe that the two presentations we have heard today are both concrete and comprehensive in terms of how the Commission's proposals will be followed up in the coming time – also taking into account the fact that the Commission's report of 22 July came a short time ago, and that a big message has been announced that will address the further follow-up to the content of the Commission's report. After July 22nd last year, the government quickly invited the parties on the Stortinget to cooperate. The Prime Minister’s proposal to set up an investigation commission received cross-political support. We stood united behind the wish to get a thorough review of what happened on this terrible Friday. We would have answered how one man could carry out the greatest attack Norway has experienced in peacetime, how it was possible to destroy large parts of the government quarter and kill and hurt conscientious statesmen and innocent passersby. We would have answered how it was possible for the terrorist to get to a summer camp for politically engaged youth, and then shoot them because of their political positions and opinions. I will commend the 22nd of July Commission for a thorough and good work. Few – if any – have asked questions about the accuracy and findings of the report. Nor will anyone want to do anything but base the report on what is to happen now. The report of the 22nd July Commission is exhilarating reading, because it gives us the story of the day when the terror struck, and because it so ruthlessly determines that the ability to provide protection does not go far enough. If the Grubbegata had been closed, the bomber wouldn't have come so close to the high block. The builder might have been stopped earlier if the yellow note with the car number had been sent out to the police and the public. Our young people were left to fear and fear for too long, because the resources that were there, ‘not found each other’, as the Commission expresses it. It's hard for us, but we can hardly imagine what kind of thoughts and feelings this brings to survivors and relatives who have lost their loved ones. The report on what happened on July 22nd last year gives us a common sense of reality. It's becoming important. In detail, we're told what went wrong this day, and what worked. The Commission gives us the essence and concrete proposals of what needs to be done, giving us a platform for learning and a basis for action. I am pleased that the Prime Minister so clearly acknowledges the Commission and bases it on the further follow-up of the work on improving preparedness. I share his assessment when he regrets that several key issues did not work as they should on July 22nd. Some of the weaknesses highlighted by the Commission relate to technical aspects such as communication equipment. Other conditions are more demanding to correct, such as: management, interaction, culture and attitudes. The Minister of Justice’s statement emphasises the coordination responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. On the part of the Labour Party, we believe that this makes clear the purpose of the Prime Minister and the Government of a new Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Minister of Justice and Security takes the lead in strengthening security. In my view, the Minister of Justice's statement today is clear that the concrete measures entailing costs will be followed up in the budgets of the years to come, that in the future all departments will be closely followed up on how they implement their preparedness actions, and, so importantly, that the difficult processes of change – those dealing with culture and attitudes – are already underway. It will take time, but I am glad that the Minister of Justice is ready for this work to begin at the top of the government apparatus. A clear signal of the seriousness of the criticism and the duty of all departments to follow-up planning and to be evaluated on the feasibility of implementation is that the Ministry of Justice and Defence will also be controlled by others. Their monitoring shall be carried out by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the reports shall be sent to another department. The police were severely criticised for the fact that so much went wrong on July 22nd. In this area, too, there are no simple and quick solutions to all shortcomings. However, on the part of the Labour Party, we are pleased that the Prime Minister is now signaling that a new emergency centre will be established in the Groruddalen, and that the appropriations for this will already come in next year's government budget. Other issues of change about fundamental issues of culture and police leadership will take time. The Minister of Justice, as we heard in her presentation, has started that work. We are pleased that she makes it so clear that she will follow up the Commission's recommendations and herself take the necessary leadership to improve security and provide a forward-looking and modern police force. Today the work here in Stortinget starts by getting to the bottom of why it went so wrong. The Workers' Party will conclude that the presentations made today are forwarded to the Control and Constitutional Committee for further consideration. It's one person who's responsible for what happened -- it's the terrorist. Nevertheless, as politicians, we must take responsibility for not being able to prevent such a devastation from being carried out with such terrible consequences. The government responds by taking real responsibility by clearing up what has failed. It's taking the seriousness of the report inwards us, learning from it and acting, showing leadership. We're going to take on a great and important job with seriousness, ability to search for yourself and with the will to learn. On behalf of the Workers' Group, I would like to invite a broad and constructive cooperation with the other parties on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e855	Let me first thank you for two comprehensive presentations. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister was sorry. That was absolutely necessary to do. Let me also make it clear that there is one man who is to blame for July 22nd. It's the perpetrator. We don't come from that when we get into the cold water of these events to discuss what went wrong. And that's why we're here today: it's to discuss the seriousness of the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission report. It is serious when the Commission so unequivocally concludes that the authorities failed to protect the citizens at the time of the serious incident. Over the last year and the last weeks, new things have been discovered and new things revealed, and it is happening on a continuous basis. Secrets, things that are put in the drawer, problems with stability, mouth-curve culture in large parts of central government – all these are things that are not unknown, but that when they are put together, as we have seen over a period of time, become striking and serious. But it's not just about the government sitting there, it's also about more. The Vulnerability Committee's suspension came to the government in July 2000. It's been 12 years. There was a setting that pointed to serious shortcomings and that launched a number of measures, many of which have not yet been followed up. I have rarely agreed more with the head of the Vulnerability Committee, former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, when he said in Dagsrevyen yesterday that the world's richest country can afford action. In other words, it is not about money, it is about political will and about action. No one's asking for any wise suggestions. We ask for decisions to be made. Nor is it that, because measures and proposals are launched by others other than the government, they are by definition easy to use. Many of the measures taken in the public debate have been discussed before, it is not new, but they have been discussed in other contexts and beyond a crisis understanding. But they have not been handled, they have not been followed up, they have not been adopted, and they have not been implemented. This is the only reason why the Storting is now doing an important job through the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee. It's about Storting's control function. Some people say this is about political games. It would be much more serious if Stortinget did not do his job to verify and implement the government's work with security and preparedness. This is precisely why it is important that the Committee on Control and Constitution now succeeds, turns all the stones, finds out who was responsible, and assesses whether there should be consequences, and if so, who. But that's just one side of the work we have in front of us. The other side is of course the measures, and I will come back to that. How is it possible that 10 years have been spent implementing the Government Quartet Security Project? How is that possible? That's questions it's natural to ask. How is it possible that 14 years have been spent following a recommended ICT strategy for the police? I also noticed that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Preparedness now, through their presentations, exposed all important structural measures for an indefinite period of time. I'll warn you against that. Many of these structural measures are about how we organize, operate and control our emergency situations. A lot of it's figured out many times. Much of it has been accomplished in our neighbouring country with luck and success. Then the big question is how long we are going to continue with new investigations and reviews before decisions are taken. It's been said and speculated a lot about PST's business. It's going to continue, simply because the Storting doesn't yet have enough knowledge of that service's operation. For many years, the Progress Party has called for a dedicated Security Committee in Stortinget to succeed and control the substantial part of the security and preparedness work in progress. An important part of it is PST's business. Yes, we know that the budgets have increased. Yes, there have been more open threat assessments. But we don't know if that service is dimensioned for its tasks. We don't know if that service has enough resources to do its work. There is knowledge The size must have if we are to also be able to do our job in terms of adopting budgetary frameworks for all governing agencies in this country. We need good leaders, good culture and good attitudes in front of money and resources, said the Prime Minister. No, we need both. For good management, good culture and good attitudes are of little help if you do not have the resources to take action whose events occur. Having equipment is of little help if you can't use it, but it doesn't help to use equipment if you don't have it. That is why this is also a question of appropriations, and there is a question of how long we are going to take to take the necessary decisions. The Progress Party will point to some factors that we believe the government should follow up, and these are not easy measures. One thing we would like to ask is for the government to make its own budget proposal in relation to the 2013 state budget, which brings together all aspects and measures relating to security and preparedness for 2013. It will make it easier to go into this work, and I hope the government will follow it up. Of course, we are also concerned that authorities and relevant emergency units should have clear crisis procedures and be trained to deal with what is at all times the current threat picture. It is not an easy proposal either. It's a proposal that takes time, but it's important that we ask for it. It is not easy to require the immediate establishment of a 24-hour continuous police helicopter alert. It's about political will to give priority to something we've long wanted. We are concerned that a separate budget will be introduced and that there will be concrete plans for opening up ICT investment to the police, including investment in mobile PCs in service cars, and a proposal to eliminate charges on police emergency vehicles and security equipment. There is no reason why the Ministry of Finance should make money for the police to make the necessary investments. It is not an easy proposal either. The Progress Party also calls for the reduction of police districts and operational centres, the establishment of emergency centres, not just one in the capital area. It's important. However, it is equally important to create the necessary security and preparedness in other parts of the country, so that the response time can also decrease there. Of course, this also applies to the availability of a fully-fledged helicopter standby in other parts of the country. It is not easy to suggest that all new graduates who have passed the Police College should be guaranteed jobs. It will create predictability for all those applying for this important service, and it will contribute to an important recruitment and to occupying vacant posts in the foreseeable future. It is important to find effective relief solutions for the police from the resources of the Defence, Home Affairs and Civil Protection. In other words, there are a number of measures by the government's Progress Party that we are calling for with impatience. But it's not easy. We've recently been given an insight into how the government actually governs the country. Sometimes it appears both passive and decision-making, and it is natural to ask whether there is no need for a review of sectors other than what we are now discussing. I will end by saying that I noticed the invitation from the Prime Minister for a cooperation with the Stortinget. We're happy to accept that invitation. But I would like to stress that we are impatient and expect action and political leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e893	Would you like a comment from Prime Minister Stoltenberg? The Minister of State has a comment of up to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e898	I would like to thank the representative Jensen for an important contribution with many important points. These are things that we have to follow up, and that we are, in part, already starting to implement, because it's about us being impatient in the government as well. I think that when we now discuss measures, we have to admit that there are some things that can go quite quickly. I mentioned in my presentation 19 concrete actions that have been taken and that are important, for example. reinforced helicopter standby, increased emergency number 112 capacity, improved defence contributions, new civilian crisis centre, etc. Everyone was mentioned in the presentation. We are in the process of doing these things, they can come quickly, and there will be more. I mentioned in addition five more who will be in the state budget, and which we are in the process of doing, among other things. Emergency response centre and more training money. All these are important measures, everything will be implemented, and there will be more. But what makes me deeply concerned, is that if it were so that through this type of action we could solve the main problem, the problem would be significantly less serious. The main problem, according to the Commission, is not lack of equipment, lack of appropriations, lack of structures, but lack of culture, attitudes and administrative capacity. That's the basic problem, and that's where I agree with the Commission that it's going to take some time. Work's already started. We're in the process, but it'll take time to get satisfactory results. If we could adopt a new culture, we would have adopted it. If we could give ourselves a different attitude to risk, we would have granted it. So the Commission points to the culture and attitudes of the administration, but it also points to this in society as a whole. So we have to operate on two levels. What can happen quickly must happen quickly. Something can take time and needs to be worked on right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e907	The representative, Siv Jensen, is given the opportunity to comment, limited to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e910	I also noticed the various measures to which the Prime Minister referred. But there's reason to stay with some of them. The measures taken in relation to the emergency network should be very thorough. There are alarming warnings from various parts of the emergency cavities, which believe that the solution chosen is not working properly. There are warnings we have to take on the highest level of seriousness. There are also warnings that have been given on repeated occasions. The same applies to a number of other measures. But it is important that decisions are taken. I agree with the Prime Minister. I also agree that resolving an unculture in central government is essential. Here the government has a great responsibility, among other things: to cancel what I called ‘muncuru culture’. Many of them in the emergency situations that have the shoes on, feel that they are never heard, and that they are not given the opportunity to express their opinion on a professional basis. It must be abolished and it should be done quickly. Listening to those who are out in the operational work every single day will make a significant contribution to getting a better culture throughout management. Therefore, I would warn against believing that getting better management is primarily about starting at the top. It may be rather the opposite of starting at the bottom, out there where most of the competence sits, and let it come up to those who sit and lead and manage this work every single day. I also noticed that the Prime Minister said in his main post that an open society does not necessarily provide more security, and that more security does not provide a more open society. I very much agree with that. What is our job is to do our utmost in the balance between having an open democracy and a secure society. It's difficult, it's demanding, but it's urgent to take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e923	I would also like to thank you for the presentations. They were vast. On many points the good descriptions and good points of action for the future were given. The Gjørv Commission has also analysed in a good and thorough manner important parts of the preparedness in Norway and the authorities’ handling of the terrorist action that hit us on 22 July 2011. The conclusions are favourable – in particular two of them: ‘– The attack on the Government Quartet 22/7 could have been prevented by the effective implementation of the security measures already adopted. – The ability of the authorities to protect human beings in the Outlying Failure’. The Commission identified significant failures in society’s preparedness for serious terrorism. System failures and management failures were identified. It was found that the planned measures were not implemented. As executive, the government has seventh and last responsibility for what has failed. However, I would like to stress that there is only one person, one man, who is responsible for 77 people losing their lives, for more people being injured, and for the ruining of vital social institutions. The attack was a political attack on the Workers' Party and the AUF, and it hit them in the most brutal of all when it hit children and young people. The grief you have, we will always bear with you. We also need to ensure that our society stands together to defend the values that the perpetrator attacks: democracy, open freedom of expression and the value of a diverse society. When there is likely to be a judgment against the perpetrator, and the courts have set a worthy sentence for the criminal settlement after 22 July, we will deal with the statements of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice with the same substance, the same thoroughness and permissiveness as the Court and the Gjørv Commission have shown in their work. It was commendable that the government asked for an honest and unpainted report, but we also have to go further and say that now we have to endure the honest and unpainted questions. What we promised each other about more transparency also means more transparency about the difficult issues that Stortinget is going to deal with in the next year. The size has to ask questions about what was done and not done, but of course first and foremost about what is to be done. What is done to prevent a better fight against terrorist acts in the future? What should be done to make people better protected from terror? But responsibility is not just taken by saying that you take it. Responsibility is not about hunting scapegoats, moving roles or changing organisational models. Responsibility has been taken when solutions have been implemented and implemented. Responsibility is only taken when Norway is safer. In the Commission’s report, there is one information that is particularly important in the further work. In 2007, in August, the government crisis council was informed by the PST that it was more than 50 pst. The probability that Norway would experience attempts at terrorist attacks over three to five years — not a theoretical estimate, a rather limited time estimate that this could occur. The question it leads to, which is unpleasant, is: What did the government do with that information? I think it is right and important that the Prime Minister regrets what went wrong on July 22. It's a pity that I think we all have socially responsible jobs to share in giving. But regret must be more than words. Complaining also means recognizing what went wrong, and how it could go wrong. The Prime Minister has regretted what went wrong, but I think we in Stortinget are still waiting for the Prime Minister's answer on how it could happen. A responsibility starts at the top. A responsibility is about results, and a responsibility for a culture is also about asking how the political culture and the government's way of driving the country leads to the situation we were in. So the question again is, what did the government do with the information that we could be taken by an estimate of terror within three to five years? The findings of the Gjørv Commission are that four years after the government received this warning, Norway was not sufficiently prepared to deal with terrorist attacks because the operating centre was completely overburdened, the police had too little crew, the national alarm system did not work at all, and the connection solutions were too poor, which meant that substantial information did not reach all those who needed it. This vulnerability has been pointed out by the National Audit Office, by the police themselves and by opposition parties, who have asked critical questions about this. Even though the Storting had given funds to a police helicopter to strengthen their preparedness, it was on the ground on July 22nd. Border crossings and central social institutions were not guaranteed. Several of this information is in stark contrast to what Stortinget also said had happened – and happened – in the presentation here in the Stortinget in November. Then there were many points of light on July 22. The health system worked. The plans that were practised were used and implemented. Volunteers showed a heroic effort and contributed to fewer deaths than those who could have died. In future, the government will have to put forward concrete proposals on how to upgrade the systems we have so that they can function properly. But it is also important to take into account that the police have not used their resources well enough, that the preparedness and fight against crime are best during the least-needed periods, that we need more people who train for sharp tasks, so that we have a greater robustness in the system. Then, the Gjørv Commission points to management failure at several levels, from government to down. The Board of Directors’ crisis advice did not address the main issues. I didn't put a staff in the Justice Department. The command lines were fuzzy and the plans were not followed. What is also alarming is to read how many of the weaknesses that were already revealed during the Oslo exercise in 2006, which were not corrected since then, the ICT systems, the operating centres. Many of these issues have been raised, and that leads to the question: Where did it stop? The evaluation report was fine. It sums up all of the learning points. But where did the learning end? Did it stop in the Police Directorate, in the Ministry of Justice, or did it stop at the government budget conference? Why is it important to ask these questions? Well, if you're going to attack and get better management, you have to know why management has failed, why culture has become like it. Without that knowledge, we probably won't get any further. Better communication systems, greater police force, better management and greater enforcement are essential to make Norway safer. But most importantly, we all dare to be open and honest about seeing how we've developed a culture where so much information doesn't sink in and actually leads to another kind of action. That's why there's reason for the Storing to do two things in the future. One is to take part in the invitation given today by the Prime Minister to ensure that the future is secured through a significantly better preparedness. But we also have to, in order to learn from this for the future, ask the question: why didn't they learn from what we knew in advance? Yes, there are other countries that have also had reports that have shown a serious deterioration in their preparedness for terrorism once the terrorist attacks have arrived. But our terrorist attack came after we should have learned from their experiences. It did not come before, as 11 September came to the United States, or as the bombing in London came to the British authorities. That's why we're going to spend a lot of time dealing with not only what failed, but also the question why it failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e969	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Solberg, for the article and also express the pleasure that I experience that the Storting and the nation can stand together in the handling of the basic, namely that we should call about our values. And then we're going to have an open and honest discussion, and debate, on how we're going to learn from what happened on July 22nd last year. It is true that the Gjørv Commission report shows that the government received an assessment from PST in 2007, where the service said it was more than 50 pst. Norway is likely to experience terrorist attacks during the next three to five years. That was one of the reasons why we already in the revised budget chose to strengthen the PST, and that in the State budget the same harvest we made further proposals to strengthen the PST, among others. for testing. A strengthened PST was important, among other things. in the case of the detection of the terrorist preparations that took place in Norway and which also led to arrests a little later. Then we strengthened the rescue team. This is in addition to what was done to strengthen cooperation between the PST and the intelligence service. So action was taken — a strengthening of the PST that was important. But at the same time, I think it illustrates a very important thing that also appears from the report, that what we were warned against in 2007 was that it was considered more than 50 pst. Norway is likely to experience attempts at terrorist attacks by extreme Islamist groups. It illustrates precisely what is so difficult to prepare for estimation, namely that that was the focus based on that report, on the possible terror of Islamist groups. Then we also have to think through how to have the most attention to the unforeseen, what happened on July 22, which was not Islamist terror.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e980	The resource situation for PST is something that Storting has been concerned about because we don't know about it. I'm glad that the government in the previous statement it gave opened up to the external review that makes us now have an opportunity to go through and know what we actually have the capacity to do. Unfortunately, it turns out – to the extent that we have information – that much of this has gone to lifeguard service and building mass and too little to what should actually secure us. We'll get back to that, and we'll have a broad discussion about it. But it's still a question to me, when you get such an alert and at the same time know about the vulnerabilities that were documented in Exercise Oslo 2006, how far the alert actually went, that it was more than 50 pst. Probably we'd get a terrorist attack, not that we wouldn't get it. More than 50 pst. probability means that it's more likely that we get a terrorist attack than we don't get it. It's a very high probability. There should have been several alarm clocks to call that one had to look at the readiness for what could happen. It also sheds light on much of what has come to light in the Commission's report on a lack of focus. For me, this is primarily a matter of hearing the government's confessions on how to grasp culture – and not just hold seminars – but its own culture for political priorities, and perhaps together with us have a debate on how we use resources, have a transparency on what is dangerous, and why we need to prioritise things that we have had too little focus on. It is perhaps the most important lesson that political Norway can take. Without that learning, I think we have three–four–five years of preparedness focus, and then it weakens again – if we do not learn more thoroughly than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e985	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Defence. SV is pleased that the government takes responsibility by acting. We have received two concrete statements with concrete follow-up. The Gjørv Commission's report is a thorough and honest review of what happened on July 22. It clearly reveals that Norwegian civil protection was too poor on 22 July 2011. The crucial thing for us now is to learn from our mistakes. We need to ensure a rapid follow-up to the Commission's recommendations, and we need to start the necessary work to ensure better societal preparedness for the future. I believe it is in its place to commend the Commission for its thoroughness and honesty, and also for having found a good balance between transparency and security in the 31 recommendations they give us to improve the Norwegian community preparedness. SV will go through each action carefully and support the recommendations that can contribute to increased security and better preparedness. July 22 came as a shock to all of us. That something like that could happen in Norway was something that the few could have really taken over and imagined. At the same time, it is precisely to be able to protect us from what may seem unimaginable, that we have a security service, a police force and a broad societal preparedness. The Commission's perhaps most thought-provoking conclusion is that already reproduced by the Prime Minister. The attack on the Government Quartet on 22 July could have been prevented by the effective implementation of already adopted security measures. The striking feature of the Commission's report is precisely the system failure detected. Structural problems related to the implementation of planning, organisational culture, interaction and communication, governance and management have developed over a long period of time. Rather than looking for scapegoats, our task now is to start the laborious work of correcting that system failure, and it is our common responsibility as the country's elected representatives. The Commission describes inter alia: how the police in 2011 had around 100 different targets to be reported by the agency, and the Commission is concerned whether this may have led to a down-priority of the work that is not easily measurable. Training and prevention are examples of things that are difficult to measure but invaluable to prioritise. Over a long period of time, public sector management systems have been developed with a strong focus on target management and related reporting and control. One of the debates to which I am also pleased that it is invited is that we need to ask ourselves whether any of the measures that would give us a more efficient and less bureaucratic public sector could have contributed to the opposite. Have we received a culture that places too much emphasis on detail management instead of encouraging responsibility and creative thinking among the individual? I'm glad the Prime Minister invited you to such a discussion in his presentation. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice and Security is so clear on the various measures she has outlined when it comes to following up the police security service. We know, of course, that all the history of political violence in Norway is the story of extreme right-wing violence. There is every reason to give priority to following up potential threats from Islamist terrorists. We know that this threat can be real. In the light of our own history, it is also important, not least when we see the violence that is so evident in right-wing rhetoric, that the danger of right-wing extreme terror and violence is taken equally seriously. We must expect that in the future, the PST will work in line with such a threat picture. The Commission's report shows the need for better arms control. SV has taken initiatives several times in the past to strengthen the control of weapons in the Norwegian community. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice and Security is clear that she will assess the Commission's recommendations in this area, while, of course, it is also natural to look at the recommendations of the Committee on Arms Law of December 2011. After 22 July, the Norwegian people stood together in defence of transparency and democracy. We wanted a society based on trust, not on fear. People met hate with togetherness and fear with hope. I am pleased that both the Commission's recommendations and the tone of this debate are that we should not break these ideals, but, on the contrary, look for targeted measures to address the gaps in societal preparedness. That is why I think it is quite appropriate for the Prime Minister to warn against the simple solutions. We know that it's impossible to secure a hundred percent against terror. We know that if there were such a society, the few of us would want to live in it. Therefore, our challenge is to find the right and proper balance between transparency and security, freedom and security. There is a demanding debate without a fascist response. We have to deal with the fact that in some cases the security of people has to go ahead of other considerations. Increased weapon control can be such an example. At the same time, it must remain legitimate to ask questions about whether some measures go too far, for example. with regard to privacy. I think Stortinget would have had much the same debate on, for example. the data storage directive today, as we had when it was being processed. Whatever the view of the various individual measures, it is our task to invite people in Norway to a broad and ongoing debate on the boundaries of transparency and security. We are not least concerned that new measures, as far as possible, should not go beyond the proximity between people and people elected in Norway. So we know that the prevention of terrorism is about more than the security measures themselves. In order to strengthen societal preparedness, we must not forget the readiness to fight the very basis for terrorist acts. The Commission itself has been involved in this and, for good reason, it has not examined issues related to the perpetrator’s motive or growth or health status. However, as the Commission itself has said, the limitations do not mean that these questions are not important — on the contrary. It is our task to continue the Commission's thorough work on broader societal preparedness. An effective security service and a good police force can prevent terrorism, good child protection can prevent a terrorist from growing up in the middle of us, and both are important aspects of our societal preparedness. If you're on the outside of society, without social networks, you're less at stake. One of the broader societal preparedness is to contribute to a more inclusive community. Focusing on safe growth conditions, good inclusion and better psychiatry are also among the measures that provide a safer society for all of us. In addition, we have a responsibility to combat the idea of terror by protesting prejudices and extremism, and it is a everyday work that is easy to forget. In one way or another, we're all part of that preparedness. Every time we don't care, protest or ask critical questions, protection against extremism weakens. It is also part of our common readiness to stand up to the ideas of right-wing extremeism, to stand up for minority rights for the diversity of Norwegian society. It is my hope that the Storting can stand together on the worthy debate and will for action that the situation requires of us, combined with the due respect that we can also now have different views on what are the best solutions. SV looks forward to contributing to the implementation of key recommendations from the Commission, ensuring our preparedness and security. SV will remind us that we are united to create security and security, while at the same time protecting freedom and transparency. SV will insist that a vital part of our common protection against violence is to create a society characterized by tolerance and diversity rather than prejudice and fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1023	Today, there's every reason to bend your head and take over that today's presentation concerns one of the most brutal issues, one of the most cruel issues, that the Storting has ever dealt with. The July 22 report tells the story of a murderer with a cruel plan, about too many lives that ended too early, and not least about the lack of security measures and a police action that so much went wrong. When we are talking about responsibility today and in the future, many people have to be prepared to be mentioned. The July 22 Commission report points out that all political Norway – including all of us in this room today – and many others bear their share of the responsibility that Norway was not sufficiently equipped to take care of our own in the meeting with evil on 22 July 2011. But we should never forget that the responsibility for 77 people being killed that day lies with the killer alone. He's been convicted by the judicial system. The other of us are going to take on the demanding task of arming society against people like him being able to do something like that again. I must honestly say that the report has shaken me. The document gives us so many images of failing prevention, a lack of preparedness and fatal individual abuses that we must bend our heads and complain in respect of those who were hurt at worst. This congregation too has a heavy responsibility on its shoulders. As the contracting entity for the public agencies that lacked some mobilization and partly failed to meet the resources, as the national parliament of the country, we need to have the ability to say what is described in this report – that too much failure. And I've decided to use this opportunity, after reading the report, to say straight out, I'm sorry. We failed. At the same time, I would ask the Norwegian people to listen to what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Defence said. Both have today provided a detailed description of what should characterise the further work also in this area, namely a wide range of concrete actions that have been taken and are to be implemented on an ongoing basis in the future. In my opinion, there should be no doubt that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security should give security and preparedness the priority required and expected of the Norwegian people. I hope today's presentation gives most people the same feeling that I've got: readiness in Norway is strengthened, and the weaknesses we saw on July 22 will be corrected gradually. The vast majority – politicians and most people – are behind the work that has begun and will continue in the future. The report of the 22nd July Commission is inconvenient. Where the report is the most intriguing, there are individuals who are almost loaded more than what can be carried. It's part of the honest reality description we've ordered, and it's a necessary prerequisite to get real improvement going. But there are also points of light: individuals – health professionals, boatmen, police and volunteers – who took responsibility and saved lives. We're going to include this in the work that's now coming. Within the framework of the collective, each of us has a responsibility in crisis situations, as fellow human beings and as workers, whether or not we have managerial responsibility. This was one of the calls from the Commission to the Norwegian people. This is when the demanding job starts, and we have to manage the responsibility we have been given in an efficient and satisfactory way. I expect the parties on the Stortinget to put people's security, well and well, before other considerations, when action is to be taken in the future. The centre party will contribute to this, and we will be clear that citizens' security is a national responsibility to be taken care of throughout the country. We must trust that the police are effective, that the police are nearby, and that the police, the health services and the defence will be rescued when life and health are at risk. The July 22 report points to challenges and proposes solutions. Some of the problems can be solved by providing more money, some by better planning, while many challenges lie in the inability to manage and implement, as the Commission says. These are known issues, but I think it will be much more demanding to change attitudes and culture. The Commission calls for our ability to recognise risks, to learn from exercises, to take responsibility and to implement what is determined to be done. This is a job that politicians cannot do alone. The whole of society has to contribute. But we who sit here today must lead. We have to give clear information about what we want from the floors we run. And we have to go ahead of ourselves as examples. We ourselves must be willing to acknowledge the risk. We have to dry to say what doesn't work, and to do something about it, even if it could mean that we have to go back on things we've done before. And we have to make the words in the national plans a reality where people live. All those working in the emergency sectors shall be conscious of their responsibilities. They must protect human lives, even when conditions are demanding and the situation is inconclusive. Each of us is to take the responsibility we have as a fellow human being – to help out as best we can when disasters strike. This is a difficult problem. Keeping your head cold is not an easy task when it's on. It shows just how important it is that our offices are run together and have thoroughly trained together. Then it is easier to trade when the terrible happens. The Prime Minister mentioned the principle of subsidiarity — that the one closest to a crisis is usually the one most suitable to deal with it. It's an important principle. It also demands that the emergency seats are located close to where people live. A police officer holding to the crisis suddenly knows where to meet to get to as quickly as possible, or where to find boats to get over the fjord, to use a few relevant images. This knowledge may be the difference between life and death in crisis situations. In the report we now have in front of us, I will draw out Hole Municipality as an example. Together with many others who have stayed nearby, they receive the honor they deserve in the report. They had a plan, they were quick to act, and they had the local knowledge they needed to help. On a day that today is also right to say to the citizens of the country that the Storting, the government and our many trades unions cannot accept a guarantee that something like this cannot happen again. We can and should build safe societies, but we can never eliminate all the risks. How far we should go to reduce risk is not just a matter of political, economic or professional instruments. It's also a question of how tall fences we're going to build around Norwegian democracy. It must be a fundamental principle that we have a security and preparedness that is satisfactory, but it is important for me to stress that such instruments do not eliminate any threat and risk. It points to historical events where the country's leadership has neglected the security of its inhabitants with fatal consequences. There will be themes in different contexts after today. Could the government do anything different? Could the size do anything different? The answer to the questions is yes. Let's unite the answers that each of us has in constructive and focused work rather than dwelling on more difficult questions. Sometimes the hard truth is what it takes for us to be able to get better. We owe it to the people who have chosen us to create a safer society. Let's include the Commission's report in the practical work that has begun, and let's jointly create good results. Finally, I would like to thank the Commission for the job that has been done. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Preparedness for the thorough presentations given here today. What we've been facing is brutal. But we're all going to be involved and take the responsibility that is now required to create a safer Norway – not least in compassion for all those who lost someone close to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1061	I would like to thank you for two thorough and good statements from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. Terrorist action on 22 July 2011 was the worst attack on Norwegian citizens' security since the Second World War. Pain on 77 lost lives is strong. The same is true of the willingness to respond to terrorism in a way that demonstrates the strength of the rule of law and democracy. Oslo District Court has done a great deal from work to confirm the truth about the acts of terror in the government quarter and on the Utøla. The responsibility for the demise has been placed on the terrorist. The July 22 Commission has done a particularly good job of bringing forward the truth about society's preparedness for terrorist attacks. The Commission report shows that the responsibility of the State for safeguarding the security of its inhabitants on a number of points has not been fulfilled. Many went wrong this day, but the health service and volunteers made a heroic effort. The defense was at hand and the police rescue work in the government quarter was good. The Prime Minister collects the nation today after the attack in a particularly good way. At the same time, the report reveals a number of serious issues that Stortinget is obliged to address, including: a lack of risk understanding at many levels, up to the highest level. We have been diagnosed with system failure due to lack of leadership, exercise and equipment. The failure is more serious than we have previously been informed. Today's Prime Minister had no choice but to acknowledge that much has failed. Such a groundless apology from a prime minister, from the Parliamentary Chair, which we experienced today, is very unusual and shows that he and the government recognise responsibility at all levels for the failure. I now note that the matter is being discussed in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy. This is how Stortinget shall assess more closely both the responsibility for action and the responsibility for the management of such a major failure. It is a state primary task to provide security for the citizens of the country. The conclusions of the Gjørv Commission report are very serious. The attack on the government quarter could have been impeded, and the perpetrator could have stopped before. The Commission report clearly states: ‘There appears to have been a lack of recognition of the risks involved in the non-implementation of the measures.’ The government has a theoretical understanding of the possibilities of terror, but not a real awareness of the risks involved. I have noted that the Prime Minister acknowledges that this also applies to him himself – as the head of government of the last two major periods. The closure of the Grubbegat was confirmed, but not taken into account by the government – something that confirms that the government is responsible. After the attack, the government owed the municipality of Oslo for summeal. It is not to take responsibility. The list of things that went wrong on July 22nd last year is long: The Board of Governors was not set up as planned. The National Alarm System did not work. The police were criticised not to use the police helicopter, that they did not quickly request assistance from the Defence Agency, that they did not use other available boats to get to the island, and that the crew is the lowest when the need is greater. An early and unusually precise tip about the perpetrator and his vehicle was lying with the police without follow-up for so long that he was able to get to the Utöja. The police security service was critical that they do not have a good system to handle tips. The report of the 22nd July Commission is painfully truthful and straightforward. The contrast is great to the police's own review from the Sønderland Selection, which concluded that: ‘We cannot see that other actions would lead to a better result on 22 July’. Now we know it's not right. The government's information obligation towards Storting is fundamental. On several points, the Gjørv Commission gives a different image to that of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence on behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom on 10 November last year. The government informed the Storting that a ‘straight action was taken to alert key management personnel in the directorate and that additional crews were called in.’ The Commission determines that the mobilisation did not work. The Chief of Staff of the Police Director didn't even have a password to access the PC where the plans for terrorist action were low. The majority was informed by the government that the Ministry of Justice held ‘the role of head of department’. On the other hand, the Commission points out that the Ministry did not establish crisis management and crisis loss, which is a violation of the plan. The Minister of Justice stated that it ‘took about 25 minutes to execute the alert to all police operating centres, i.e. from the request to initiate the alert, until it was communicated to all the police districts of the country.’» The Commission report states that the national alarm was not ‘received or registered by any of the relevant police districts this day’. One of the reasons for the government and the police on why it took 75 minutes to get to the island was that they thought there were several perpetrators. This is also incorrect according to the Commission report. The painful truth is that the security failure of July 22 is the most serious since the war. The extent of this failure is greater than the government informed the Stortinget in November 2011. Several of the points where the government in November drew an image different from the one that the Yurv Commission is now showing us show a government with a rather abstract understanding of what it means to put into action. Now there is a government that does not interpret its executive power in the sense that one has thought about the matter, but understands that the job has not been done until a task has been received, understood and completed. We cannot demand less than this from a government that will take responsibility and express its willingness to take action to strengthen preparedness. The work we are facing is great and demanding. Many departments and departments are responsible for our social security in different areas. We see that coordination at the highest level has not been good enough. There's been a lot of criticism on the part of the police. At the same time, it is also clear that one can learn from other sectors such as defence and health. In these sectors, one has been good practice. Constantly new instructions are not necessarily helpful. What is needed is training, training and training on sharp situations and counter-terrorism. Norway is a small country. We need to use resources in the best possible way. Therefore, we need to look at cooperation between e.g. the police and the defence, where appropriate. Better coordination, a better system and better leadership are needed. The Commission report reveals more than anything else how complex and complex social security is and that this requires more than anything else a holistic approach and not least clear leadership. The top responsibility for security in our country is the Prime Minister. There were many changes today from the Prime Minister, but no changes at the Prime Minister's office. I don't think of constitutional changes, but does the Prime Minister see the need to build capacity at the Prime Minister's office, too, just to recognise the threat and risk we have now seen? I would like to end with a question to the Prime Minister: Is this the greatest failure we have experienced when it comes to security, after the Second World War?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1134	The representative Hareide pointed to a number of points in which he felt there was a discrepancy between the then Minister of Justice Knut Storberget and the Stortinget in November, and what has emerged later, among other things. in the Commission’s report of 22 July. I think in order to evaluate it, it's pretty important to start from what Knut Storberget actually said. He said he presented the facts we had so far, based on what came from the police. But he made clear his reservations that we could provide new and more complete information, that it could have significant significance, and that he would eventually also inform the Storting about it. He also provided the Stortinget with all the basic material, the sources of the information he had. Then more and more information has emerged later. Among other things, our own reviews have found that there was a lack of information flow from the police to the Ministry of Justice and to the Prime Minister's office. It did not appear in the Gjørv report, it appeared in our own evaluation, published in January and mentioned in the big news of social security, which was presented in spring. This is no news, this is something we ourselves have made very aware of – publicly and towards Stortinget. Similarly, the management responsibilities, the responsibility of the Ministry of State, in the Ministry of Justice, for not having set staff: it is also stated in the big social security report, which is now in Stortinget. There is no news, but additional supplementary information, which we clearly took into account when Knut Storberget explained to Stortinget. I think the important thing here is that sometimes we are faced with a balance between rapid information – it was a strong wish to provide the information we had in November – and supplementary information. We set up the Commission, which has delivered its report, to get all the facts on the table. That's what we got.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1147	In my post, I never gave leaders who said that former Minister of Justice Storberget deliberately provided incorrect information. But the information the government provided on November 10, 2011 turned out not to be right. That's why I expected the government in their distributions today to have fixed that error information, precisely because you've been informed later, not least with the Gjørv Commission's facsimile, which is so clear. I could take a few more examples. They believe that the government explained to Stortinget that the police helicopter was not being used because it was not possible. The Commission notes that the police helicopter crew report to the service at 1 p.m. 16:00 and said he could fly it. The government explained in Stortinget that the police in the first critical phase had no access to boats other than their own. On the other hand, the Commission stated on 22 July that between 18.00 and 18.10 there were several boat options in the Utøya Bridge area, the country side of which the police did not intend to take advantage of. I believe that when the government has provided incorrect information in this room, it is important that the government also intends to correct that incorrect information. I still hope that this is not the leading thing for this day, because the most important thing now is to look at what we can do in the future. I mean, one of the things that we have to learn from, and that's the most important thing here, is the summary from the Gjørv Commission, that there's a theoretical understanding of what terror and risk can be. It has to be a theoretical exercise to be a real recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1158	I would also like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice for the presentations. The report NOU 2012: 14 believes I was a blow in the stomach of all of us. When there was a statement earlier this year on 22 July, we discussed several points that have later been clarified. Then I said we had to admit that the system actually failed that day. The main reason why we build a nation, a community and a state is to give security to the participants, the citizens, in that society. We couldn't do that that day. What I said in the presentation debate turned out to be more true than I actually thought. Reading the report must be awfully bad for the survivors. But the many relatives have also felt in the last year, that they have not received clear answers. Now they've got them, and now something has to happen. That is why I am also pleased that the Prime Minister was sorry. The warning signals have been numerous. The alarm clock has actually been used. I would also like to stay a little while at PST's presentation of the Government Security Committee in 2007 – as Erna Solberg did – when they were told that it was more than 50 pst. The probability of getting a terrorist act in the near future. I have often wondered what the Prime Minister was thinking. What were the thoughts of those who were responsible when they received such a message? It is not that if it had been an Islamist – as PST thought – if it had been another driver, you would have been able to stop that car. The acts of terror are quite the same no matter what kind of extremists are behind it. The instruments for extremists are quite the same in any case, and the way we're going to defend ourselves against them is pretty similar in any case. I want to refer to three major challenges as I see it. One is how we actually run the public sector. One of the police officers has said that we are exposed to target and activity management, not target and result management. The question is, do we measure the right things? Are we making the right expectations for those we're going to rule? Are we making more bureaucracy and less action? Is that what the Minister of Justice says in his statement today, that we need more guidelines and more detailed management? I don't think so. I think it's wise, good and safe employees who feel that they have backing for their decisions, who have practiced the things they're going to do, and who also know when to break out of the pattern, which is the good, public leaders we need to move forward. It is not that the health services in the East have not been subjected to reorganisation and demanding transformations, but they still worked that day. It is not that they do not have guidelines, but sometimes they also broke the guidelines, and those assessments proved to be correct. When the ambulance drivers did not do what was in the book, it was a correct decision, seen afterwards. It is because these are wise, good employees who feel that they have ‘backing’ for their decisions anyway, because they are exposed to good management. So the question is, what are the different leaders of our systems? Perhaps we should manage the public sector in a less detailed and more targeted way, asking for results instead of asking for activity columns and reports. The second major challenge, I think, is the safety trap. We can think that we're going to try to make rules and systems that make us have a totally safe society anyway. This is how I feel that the report is very uplifting, and I do not understand the two perspectives that the Minister of Justice drew up. In fact, there is nothing in this report that says that we need more police methods and more monitoring to do the job – rather the opposite. The police methods we have, the level of surveillance we have in Norwegian society, could have managed to stop this terrorist without further powers. I am also a little surprised that you think more weapons in the police will stop it. Let me quote the report, about the first two police officers on site on Ut Island: ‘The two police officers in the patrol were equipped with protective equipment, gun and machine gun, and approved for sharp duty operations.’ There was no lack of weapons that was the problem, and there was no lack of security for the policemen who were the problem. The problem was whether they had ‘backing’, decisions, management and practice in using the equipment they had. The report talks about ‘the resources that did not find each other’ that day. I think that's a good picture of how we have to organize ourselves in the future. The third element is the long-termity we work for in Norwegian politics. It is not easy to win voters on the long-term, big goals. Whether building security, tackling climate change or addressing other major long-term challenges, they have not been highly valued, either in Parliament or in the public debate. I think we need to appreciate the debates that are about the big, long-term challenges that our society is facing a lot more, rather than light-winding, quick decisions on light-winding and fast-paced problems. It's the big challenges, how they're being solved, that we're measuring up to in the future. It is true that the issue of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice has been here today, and also said a lot of wise words, not only after the report has been presented, but also after the government has put its trust in its handling. The sheriff's departure is one of them. I have also asked for more timetables and a slightly larger plan of deadlines, which is more concrete, and where we are talking about when we are going to be able to make the changes we are actually going to make. How much of this report actually surprised the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister – when it is done so fatally wrong, when a yellow note is not delivered, or we see the highest level of responsibilities powdering? We need to have a discussion about what kind of police we want, and how we're going to prevent recruitment to radical environments. This was a terrorist that we had made sail. We need to have a debate on how such extreme attitudes are actually developed in our society as well. I am concerned that we are now pressing on the Commission's recommendations, and that they are being followed up. I'm glad we finally get a control case. I have to say that if this had not been a matter for the Storting Control Committee, yes, then I do not understand why we are going to have a control committee in Stortinget. What I expect from the Prime Minister now is that he makes a plan with which security holes to close when, who is responsible, and when to do so. Then we have to turn management and culture, not by instructions and more rules, but perhaps by talking. That's how we have very few police officers in this country. In a small country, it must be possible to exercise leadership and culture not only through circulars but also through dialogue. Then we need to figure out how to strengthen voluntary preparedness, which worked well, but which can also be strengthened and used much better in prevention. We need to figure out how we're going to work with the Civil Defense and Homeland Protection. Then we have to figure out how to use our police reserve. Either we have to have it and use it, or we have to put it down. Today's situation is unsustainable. We need cultural change, and they also have to come from the government. We cannot have a powdering of responsibilities. We can't have a system where you're more concerned about who's going to do what, than what's actually going to be done. We need more deadlines and shorter processes. We need first of all openness and honesty and people who dare to answer the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1201	Short to this with deadlines, action and bad time: I fully agree with that. We need rapid action, and therefore I was concerned about stressing in the statement that many measures have already been taken. I mentioned 19 concrete actions that have been taken and notified in addition to five new ones – including a Emergency Response Centre and more money for exercises. In addition, the Minister of Justice has outlined measures. What I still experience as the main challenge is that the main measure, all of which is agreed, is that this is primarily about – that of attitudes, culture, awareness of preparedness at all levels throughout society, as the Commission says – is an action that has been initiated by the beginning of the government but which will take time to implement. Yes, we will have deadlines for what it is possible to have deadlines, but the greatest and most important measure we have to acknowledge will last for some time because it is so demanding. Then I also agree that of course it is partly about problems we have known in a long time. It's e.g. alarmingly, ICT shortcomings have been identified since 1998. It is alarming that we have known that there have been problems with communication, and that it has taken a long time to set up an emergency network. It's been working on over a lot of years. I remember when I was Prime Minister for the first time that emergency networks were a big challenge. We came back in 2005 and started to grant money in 2006. And then it goes step by step. But what's an important challenge is the question of whether I'm surprised. Well, what I said in my statement was that the extent, the depth of the problems we're experiencing in the police force, is greater than I was prepared for. That's my way of expressing that there are bigger problems than I've fully recognized. It was important that we got facts on the table, because knowledge and facts are the first prerequisite for doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1212	One thing I want to give the Prime Minister, and that's that he's good at getting started. My challenge is to end as well. My challenge is not to start the processes you're going to have, but that you might have to set a deadline for doing them. Maybe it's as important as getting them started. Let me use Grubbegata as an example. To put it mildly, the Planning and Building Act is not suitable for organising security in a society. The Planning and Building Act is designed for completely different objectives. The organisation of security in a society is based on the fact that we have some professionals who assess it. The state can do exactly what it will all the time. It does the state around Oslo now that the departments have moved around. Around Kristin Halvorsen's building, I saw yesterday that there were large concrete blocks in place – not because there was a message sent to the planning and building kit, not because there has been a long hearing from the restaurant owners on the other side, but because it has to be done. You don't need state regulation plans for this. You actually need someone to set a deadline for when to do that. These are the deadlines I'm looking for. It's these goals of when things are going to be done, I'm looking for. It's not just going to start processes, it's actually going to lead them to goals. Then you can actually just close a gate. It has state and police full opportunity to do so. Nevertheless, you can have an open society. An open society is about every citizen being able to stand outside the Storting and tell me that I'm doing a bad job, if he's given me his voice and he thinks I'm doing a bad job. But that doesn't mean you're going to be allowed to drive a van in front of all public buildings. We're doing the balance that's about being open and accessible. Nevertheless, I do not think that you should lean on the law of the plan and the building in order to assess the safety of a city.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1219	It was a serious report that came from the 22nd July Commission. It was a report that also gave clarity. I am sure that clarity is also very important for the relatives, they injured and victims after the events on July 22nd last year. The report also said something about how Norway was prepared for an event like the one that took place on 22 July, and how we mastered this event. That's the basis we use to work our way through the report in a targeted and systematic way. In my opinion, there is no doubt that there must be a stronger focus on management and communication to – that leaders at all levels must now be prepared to take responsibility. We need better communication technologies and better information and alert procedures, but we also need to understand better how to make full use of such technologies in our work processes. The challenges in this field are great, but not insurmountable. And my mandate as the Council of State in the Ministry of Justice and Defence is clear. We will work in a targeted, strategic and operational way to strengthen preparedness. We want to clear roles, responsibilities and tasks. The objective is less detailed management, but clearer on targets and performance requirements. A lot has been said about risk recognition and threat assessments. It is an objective to strengthen coordination in this work between the Minister of Defence and me. We have important agencies that provide such threat assessments, and they have to be good, and they have to give a good, holistic picture. Together with the external review of the PST, I also look forward to consulting the size of these assessments, which we have a goal of coordinating better. The question is not just about strengthened resources, but about using resources correctly. Here, both the external review and the Commission’s input will be a useful basis for us to include in the further work, including in building skills and the right tools to solve the problems. I've been concerned with the police's own evaluation. It didn't have a goal. I, among several, asked questions at the mandate. There is some background for me to be so concerned that both in our own area of responsibility and in the role of coordination we must learn from exercises and crises, be open and honest in order to improve us. Already in the Social Security Communication I announced that we did not have the full picture of the course of events on July 22. This is what the Yard Commission is doing. I also announced that we would go further into the assessment the police had already made related to ‘shooting is ongoing’. In the forthcoming Communication, I will come back to what actions, facts and possible deviations are in that situation, and in the interim evaluation. The left may well not have heard what I said about solo terrorism and the ban on weapons. These are important questions. We have submitted proposals for consultation, but the government has not taken a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1233	Let me thank you for a good and important debate after the presentations to the Minister of Justice and myself. Let me give you some final reflections and considerations. First of all, in all my articles, I have stressed that this is basically about attitudes and culture, and that we have to get it going. But I'm busy stressing that it doesn't have to be misunderstood that it's not about appropriations, because we're going to need simple decisions, we're going to need appropriations, and we're going to need measures of the more traditional political variety. It's also going to require that we prioritise this financially. It's e.g. so that the deployment of emergency networks will cost several billion kroner. Now when we're dealing with new rescue helicopters, it's going to cost billions of dollars. When we're working on setting up a new police security center, for the emergency team, it's a big investment, and when we're going to have more exercises, more crew, it's going to cost. So it's not that we can only talk about attitudes and culture – although it's important – we also need to implement very strict, strong priorities in terms of preparedness, because we are facing large investments, among other things. on emergency networks and in rescue helicopters. The second is that I – personally at least – am in the situation that I have received many recognitions after July 22. Sometimes you ask, did you know? Well, sometimes you see a challenge, but over time you see it's bigger, more demanding than what I saw originally. An example is the use of municipal plans in relation to national safety measures. I saw early that it took some time. But both the current government and the previous one suggested that we should use the usual way to get this kind of decision. But it was a demanding process, and I've clearly learned that in the future we'll be able to apply government plans much faster. But I think we have to do more than that. I think we also have to look at how we have a state plan, because it can also be a rather time-consuming process. So in addition to faster use of government plan, I think we need to see faster if we can simplify state plan so that we can get quick decisions where necessary. It is a new recognition I have received in the period after 22 July, although I also realized before that there was a problem with time usage in that type of planning process. Similarly, some information has been pointed out. That's how, as the Minister of Justice says, there's been a series of self-evaluations. It has given us useful information, including: We have explained this in the press release on social security in relation to staff in the Ministry of Justice, in relation to the flow of information between the police, the ministry and the Prime Minister's office – there were shortcomings where it was difficult to get accurate information – and in relation to the police's own evaluation, as we say in the report, and as the Minister of Justice himself says, we have asked the police to go through one more time on the key points. On top of this, on top of our own evaluations, our own assessments from the various departments, the point has always been that we should get the information through the July 22 Commission, which has had access to so much material and so much knowledge that has been important to us. So, just to underline one important thing about the probability of 50 pst. My point was not that there is necessarily so much difference between a bomb blasted by a solo terrorist and a bomb blasted by an extreme Islamist grouping. I think in many ways species are very similar. My point was that what we were warning against, and as we took the most seriously – I remember the meeting, I remember the seriousness, and I also remember how we were engaged in discussing with the PST necessary measures, they got increased appropriations in several rounds, and we also did other measures, including. preparedness straps, eventually – were extreme Islamist terror. The crucial thing about mentioning that it was extreme Islamist terror we were warned against was the dangers of seeing the wrong place. Of course, we have to stay awake because there is still a threat there, but what we saw on July 22 was that it also comes from places we were not so prepared, namely from people born and raised in our own country, with a background similar to that of the large, large majority. So I will end by inviting Stortinget to cooperate in a worthy way to do the political work that is now to be done. The rule of law has worked. The courts have dealt with it in a dignified and good manner. The Commission has made a significant contribution. Young people, victims, have handled it in a good and dignified way. Now it's political Norway that's going to do the political work of dealing with the lesson from July 22, and we're inviting to cooperate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1248	This concludes the debate on the statements. The President will propose that the statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Defence on the follow-up by the Government to the report of the 22 July Commission be forwarded to the Control and Constitutional Committee for further consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-08-28.ana.ud1732e1273	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
