ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e80	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e83	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose a specific further education commitment for those in primary school who lack teaching skills, and proposals for updating the legislation for the health care of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e88	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e102	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e111	The proposers point out that in recent years the Cultural Council has gained increased power and influence over Norwegian cultural life, and that there may be reason to ask questions about the democratic aspect of the development of the Cultural Council. The majority of the Committee is aware of the issues raised in the case, but will support the government in the fact that the Norwegian Cultural Council is too important for Norwegian cultural life to be closed, as proposed by the proposers. The Norwegian Cultural Council is a driver of new art and cultural projects, while it is an advisory body for the State on cultural issues. With its professional competence in several forms of art and culture, the Norwegian Cultural Council is also important for the development of national, regional and local cultural life. Proposals also focus on the lack of transparency, transparency and transparency in the allocations, refusals and assessments relating to the application process. For this reason, it is important for the Committee to point out the need to facilitate transparency and transparency in the allocation of funds from the Norwegian Cultural Council. The Norwegian Cultural Council is a government body and must, of course, follow the general laws and regulations applicable to the administration. It is also important to stress that the meetings of the Norwegian Cultural Council are initially open to all. Further increased transparency is expected through the use of a new electronic application and grant management system. There is reason to clarify that no annual flat-rate funding is granted from the Norwegian Cultural Fund, but that the Culture Council can provide commitments for annual and multi-annual project support from the Norwegian Cultural Fund. The majority also point to the fact that the Ministry of Culture’s budget for cultural purposes is substantially linked to the operation of different public activities and institutions at different levels of government, either fully funded by the State, or where the funding takes place in close and good cooperation between the State and the regional level within regional institutions or sub-national institutions. As regards the latter, the majority in this case would stress the importance of continuing this cooperation. The proposers point out that the composition of the Culture Council must have an independent and free role in the future. The majority believe that this is already taken into account today by the appointment of members of the Culture Council on the basis of different criteria. There shall be artistic and cultural competence, it shall represent diversity, maintain a gender balance and, in addition, have the necessary geographical distribution. The same criteria are used for the appointment of the Council's many sample sizes. As a representative from District Norway, it is important for me to have an eye on how the districts are being helped by the allocation of funds. What I've seen of allocations so far makes it extra important to keep track of the spatial intent. There is no doubt that the Culture Council can only be better placed to maintain the regional profile. After seeing the district profile in the 2010 overview of the allocations, I am not particularly impressed as a representative from Finnmark – therefore this extra clarification from my side. It is also important for the Committee to point out the need for the Culture Council to constantly assess whether it is reaching new groups of applicants. A good key in this context is having a good dialogue with the diversity of actors that culture in our vast country represents. The majority of the Committee would stress that the administrative changes made in relation to the tasks of the Norwegian Cultural Councils place great demands on the management of their responsibilities by the Council. But at the same time, it's also important for us to be a little voice to the council, so that they get the time they need to find their place. The organisation of the Norwegian Cultural Council is not static, and it would be natural to look at the outcome of the organisation when it has been over. Finally, despite the fact that we are asking for generosity so that the Council of Culture may take some time to find its place in relation to the new tasks assigned to it, the majority of the Committee of this Parliament will stress that the artistic freedom of the Council of Culture and the importance of keeping the arm's length distance do not exempt the Council of Culture from the obligation to follow the signals of the Storting on the management of different schemes. As far as the arm's length principle is concerned, it must not be so large that we do not reach each other when the need is there. The majority therefore assumes that the Culture Council will follow up the Storting's intentions for the activities, and will also stress that the Stortinget can continue to provide leadership at the overall level for specific initiatives and areas of action under the Norwegian Cultural Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e139	The policy under the current government is clearly in the direction of increasing power concentration around central agencies in Oslo, which was also the subject of the last speech, when he said that Finnmark was getting little outnumbered in terms of cultural resources. What we see is that the Norwegian Cultural Council is still being given new tasks and is getting stronger and stronger. The party of progress has often pointed out the concern in this, and the danger of developing a bastant sense of taste and centralisation is clearly present. The Progress Party considers that the state's allocation policy, including through the Norwegian Cultural Council, should be subject to a critical review and that a new policy course may be necessary. I believe that the spread of power and greater diversity as a starting point for a dynamic cultural life are important. The alternative to today's cultural policy must be to promote Norwegian cultural life by disseminating decisions geographically and organisationally around the country. Never has more money been allocated to culture, but the feedback we get, at the latest today, is that the municipal libraries and the cultural school have seen little to the big pot that is granted. The queues increase in the cultural school, and the talents around the municipalities look little at the money. In addition, tax benefits and targeted efforts to mobilise private funds should help to provide culture with more sources of funding. A broad review of the national channels for the allocation of funds to cultural life is necessary with a view to clearer clean-up of tasks and dissemination of functions to municipalities. I would like to point out the importance of not contributing to red tape and inefficient use of funds. Norwegian Cultural Councils manage Norwegian Cultural Fund and other cultural support schemes. The Council has over 100 staff and has administrative responsibility for the Norwegian Cultural Fund. The Council is appointed by the Ministry of Culture and appoints itself a committee of experts. The Norwegian Cultural Council also has secretarial responsibility for the state's artists' scholarship, the Audio and Video Foundation and the Cultural School Bag. Everyone understands that there is a lot of power gathered here in Oslo, far from where the talents evolve. A comparison with our neighbouring countries shows that Sweden finances the culture through cooperation between county councils, municipalities and the state. This could be a model that Norway should also look at. In Denmark, the State and municipality are responsible for contributing to public cultural appropriations. The main principle for the division of tasks between the State and the municipality is that the State is responsible for the specific requirement for national action, while the municipalities take care of the cultural tasks relating to the local cultural offer and the local involvement. Denmark has also found a model that takes care of the talents in the municipalities. Finland has a system with 50/50 responsibilities for municipalities and the state. In the case of concentrated cultural power, the consequence of recent changes is that an increasing proportion of the country’s funds are managed by a handful of people, who also have very close ties to some parts of Norwegian cultural life and are being picked out by the ministry. There is reason to ask questions about the democratic aspect of the developments of the Cultural Council. This impression is reinforced by the lack of transparency with regard to the approvals and refusals granted by the Council. This is something we are constantly getting feedback about. It will therefore be in the interest of culture to take action to ensure that there is less power both in terms of resources and in terms of definition for the Council of Culture and the Ministry of Culture. What we want to achieve with our proposal is that cultural resources should benefit all municipalities. We want the funds out of Oslo – not distributed by the Council of Culture or the Department. It is important to know that the talents are created in a municipality. I think there are a few cultural talents that are created in the department or in the Cultural Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e162	There is every reason to address the issues of power concentration and governance in connection with the Norwegian Cultural Council. The development we have seen over the last few years has shown a quite clear direction towards fewer and fewer people deciding on more and more of the means available. The structure with which we have operated over the last few years, that the Cultural Council consists of ten persons appointed by the Department – people with a professional background – has also strengthened the cultural council itself as a governance mechanism. The Council has chosen to organise itself in such a way that the respective members also participate in the Council's technical committees, perhaps also as the chairmen of these committees. This means that the signals received by the Council from the government, which should be, we should say, governance criteria in addition to purely technical qualitative criteria, will therefore be more effectively implemented in the Council's allocation policy. The right disagrees with this development and believes that there is a step in the wrong direction in relation to having a free, dynamic cultural life. For us, this violates the arm's length distance principle. We think the arms are going to be short, considering how you've organized yourself now. Our idea is not necessarily to abolish the Council of Culture. There will be too much drastic action, and we also need a professional body that is just carrying the demands and professional qualities of the Council of Culture. Our criticism is not about the work of the Culture Council as such. There's more to it on the device. We in the Right think that rather than abandoning the Council, we should sharpen it, clarify the tasks, perhaps ensure that there are fewer tasks, and clarify the debate on whether the Council should be a stand-alone body, or whether it should really be a directorate. Still, this is unclear, although it has been an objective in many of the debates we have had, precisely to bring this division of roles to the fore. The transfer of 74 to the Council of Culture strengthened the role of the Council in terms of administrative tasks, more towards being perceived as a Directorate. An important task in the future must be to spread power. It will be about perhaps lifting some tasks from the Council of Culture – without us being ready to say what it should be today. This will include finding more sources of funding, strengthening other ways of government funding by finding other environments that would preferably recruit their decision-makers from a different professional background. Where the Cultural Council today is preferably an artist-driven and artist-appointed body, it could also be thought of bodies that drew their resource people from producer environments, curatorial environments or, for that matter, from more cultural-related businesses. The conclusion of this is that the right is not included in the closure of the Cultural Council. We want to sharpen the Council of Culture, we want a spread of power by evaluating other bodies in relation to allocation, and we want to strengthen alternative forms of funding for cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e177	There are several interesting issues raised in the proposal by the representatives of Horne, Thomsen and Korsberg, both the question of who to manage, have a lot of power over, the means of culture, transparency, the composition of the Council of Culture and power concentration. At the same time, the Central Party fundamentally disagrees with the Progress Party on some key issues and conclusions, and that is why we do not support the proposal, but, as I said, I think it is very good and very important that we have a debate about this. An overall committee highlights the importance of transparency and the need for the Culture Council to be constantly aware of the need to reach new groups. As the representative Mr. Kåre Simensen had in mind, it is not a good enough geographical distribution of funds. However, there are many criteria that can be taken into account, and applications should be weighed against each other. When you have a geographical distribution of funds, you have to ask yourself if there's anything wrong with the criteria and the measuring instruments, and if you have to pay attention to other things than what you do today. The organisation and responsibilities of the Culture Council have changed over time. It's not a static organization and it'll change in the future as well. We must constantly assess whether this is the best possible organization we have. For it is important that different candidate groups reach and receive the guidance they want and that they know the arrangements that exist. There is a difficult balance between what is a subject and what is a policy. What is important for me to say is that the professional is not a completely neutral and objective assessment either. Different professionals will consider much of this differently. There is a part of what can be demanding precisely in the balance between what is policy, and what should be focused there, and what is subject, and what is then emphasised. The majority of the Committee is clear that the Council of Culture has an artistic freedom, but it is also such that the Council of Culture has an obligation to follow the signals provided by the Storting on the management of different schemes. I think that is very important in order to maintain a strong commitment and a willingness to allocate a lot of money to cultural policy. As a cultural politician, you also have thoughts about what you want to focus on. We have organized ourselves in this way in relation to the Cultural Council that the individual applications are the Cultural Council that governs, but in terms of key developments, I believe it is important that we, as politicians, also have an involvement. It's a little different than what matters. Questions can be asked about gender, geography and regional development should be part of the artistic criteria, or whether these are political criteria. The balance sheet here will be demanding. As a summary, I can say that it's very interesting to have a debate on this, because it also makes the political differences between the different parties visible. At the same time, it is also very clear that the government concludes in a completely different way than the Progress Party does, because we believe that the Stortinget should still give a lot of money and spend a lot of money on culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e192	Through its role, the Norwegian Cultural Council is an advisory body for the State on cultural issues and a driving force for new art and cultural projects and has an important role through its professional competence and the authority to which they are assigned. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee underlines this, and I am pleased that a Joint Committee points out the importance of facilitating transparency and transparency in the distribution of funds from the Council of Culture. Norwegian Cultural Councils function well according to many of the objectives as intended. At the same time, with the model chosen, we have created an institution that makes a continuous discussion of the distribution of power in cultural life important. It became no less important after the majority in the hall changed the way they put together the Council of Culture. As cultural politicians, we receive constant feedback from all over the country on how to perceive the functioning of the Cultural Council. Now, it's often going to be the dissatisfaction that calls out loudest, and we're always going to have that with us. As I have underlined, I believe that the Cultural Council, based on many of its objectives, is doing a very good job. At the same time, we should not underestimate the considerable tensions in cultural life associated with the functioning of this institution. I would like to point out two examples of that. One is what other speakers have mentioned before me, that is, the geographical distribution of funds, and not least how we have concentrated many of these decisions on an institution that works from the capital. It's true that the composition consists of people who come from different parts of the country, and that's what it should be. At the same time, it is worth discussing how other bodies, not least regional bodies around our country, can also help to complement these priorities and gain greater influence. In addition, there is a continuous tension in the understanding of culture and the purposes that deserve support. While the Cultural Council, on its side, has a one-sided focus on artistic quality – and as the Cultural Council sees it as artistic quality – we note that around the country there is a broad understanding of culture and a broad register of motifs and purposes for stimulating culture, which is active, which is based on value creation, and which takes care of communities and communities. When the Culture Council meets with its more one-dimensional approach to quality, a tension often arises, and I think it is worth spending more time discussing, because it turns out that national cultural policy often conflicts with the regional and local understanding of what culture is, what culture should be, and what the different businesses and activities should actually contribute to. I am pleased that the majority rejects the proposal to abandon the Council of Culture, but I would like to stress that the debate on both power and the way the Council of Culture works is important and must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e207	I agree with those representatives who have talked about the importance of having a discussion about power distribution in Norwegian cultural life. I'm also concerned about that. It is clear that the decisions taken at all times by the Council of Culture should be the subject of discussions. It should also be the case that the various professional bodies are composed of people of different artistic character, because different views on what should be eligible are taken. The Norwegian Cultural Council has the whole country as its scope. But I disagree with the proposers on the way they want to organise the Cultural Council. I am convinced that a model where this money is distributed locally will provide more bureaucracy in several places, including: for musicians in order to obtain support for tour activities. I believe that the decisions we have taken to change the Norwegian Cultural Council in recent years have helped to decentralize power. When we had political representation in the Council of Culture, those who were employed in the Council of Culture had greater influence over the artistic decisions that were made. Now, on the contrary, there are people with artistic backgrounds who can be counterbalanced to the professional competence of the staff of the Norwegian Cultural Council, and they can thus represent a variety of artistic views. There are many selections in the Council of Culture. I think there are few examples of how many people are involved in making a decision. For 2012–2013, 14 selections were appointed with a total of 64 members. In addition, we have the purchasing system for literature. They're made up of people from all over the country. They are also appointed on the basis of their competence. We have recently also transferred some authority from the Ministry of Culture to the Council of Culture. This has been done in view of the need to lay down technical criteria on the basis of the allocations made by the Council of Culture. But you also have to take geographical considerations into account. So when we look at the geographical distribution of cultural resources, we see that there is a concentration in the areas where the artist population is the largest. However, it is also the case that the proportion of applications granted is highest in, for example: municipalities in Nord-Trøndelag and other municipalities. It is easier to get support if you apply. So there's the greatest risk of rejection if you live in Oslo. But we also work systematically to increase the search competence in the counties where there are fewer applications. So that's something we have to work with all the time. Recently, we have also transferred some arrangements to the Cultural Council, and let me give you one example: Before we set the Rikskonserten and made tour plans for a number of Norwegian musicians. Now we've transferred some of that money to the Cultural Council. That means it's the local organizer themselves who decides who to invite to guest the local scene. In addition, the musicians themselves are putting up their own tours. There will be more decentralization of power. I just want to take one example: Ola Bremnes has been awarded NOK 54 000 from the Norwegian Cultural Council to the tour in North Norway. He will have concerts in Brønnøysund, Sandnessjön, Mosjön, Bodø, Narvik, Harstad, Kväfjord, Andenes, Svolvær, Finnsnes, Tromsø, Alta and Hammerfest. I am convinced that the way to organise tour activities is better than that of the Cultural Council. Then he does not want to search every municipality where he is going on tour, and it is better than if the Rikskonserten decided that he was going on a tour. Now it is more decentralised — and decentralised decision-making. We are now working with a common electronic application-handling system to make the grant management more efficient. It is somewhat unclear to me what the Right believes in that matter. They're talking about the point, but we don't get to hear what this point is about. They talk about having a cultural council with a cultural and nutrition perspective. I would warn against having two cultural councils – a cultural and nutrition council and a cultural council. If there's something we see that cultural workers are busy about, then there shouldn't be very, very many different search portals. Then it's those who are good at writing applications, who get through. I want to continue to work systematically to simplify these application processes, and I think that the model that the Progress Party sets up here leads to more bureaucracy for Norwegian artists – and less art and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e229	First, I want to promote the proposals of the Progress Party – which I forgot to make during my post. Then I would like to remind the Council of State that the Progress Party will not abandon the Council of Culture. You want to restructure it. Why do you want to do that? Well, that's because you want to improve the conditions around the country. We believe that the municipalities have the competence – which I understand the Council of State is skeptical – to take care of these cultural resources. Especially when we also get feedback that the municipal libraries haven't enjoyed these cultural promises we've had in recent years. The cultural schools have not enjoyed this – the queues are increasing there as well – nor have the talents around the municipalities. Then I understand the concern of the representative from Finnmark when you hear that the Council of State says it's easier to get support if you're from the trombones. It's funny, when half of the cultural committee comes from Trondelag. I hope it doesn't have any connection. Will the Council of State look at the composition of the Council of Culture — where appropriate, consider KS there as a possible partner in order to promote municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e240	The President records that the representative Ib Thomsen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e244	I don't want KS to be represented in the Cultural Council. We work with them in other ways. A great many of the allocations made by the Council of Culture have just been made through an agreement between the municipality and the county council and the Norwegian Cultural Council. So I'm concerned that there should be people with broad artistic competence, from all over the country, who represent different parts of Norwegian art and cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e249	As the new Council of Culture has chosen to organise, the ten members, who are mostly artists, take part in the respective selections – i.e. the selection of their arts – and are directly involved in the award process. The government gives quite clear signals about which non-artistic themes you want to attend to. It's about diversity, it's about children and young people, it's about equality. I'm not quite sure if 1814 has moved to the Cultural Council, as it has moved to the institutions, but it may be. If you take those leaders seriously, it's now that this is directly implemented in the allocation process. Doesn't the Council of State see that there are quite clear leads in cultural life's appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e256	There's going to be some funny criticism, this, because on the one hand, I'm criticised that there's not enough geographical distribution of cultural resources, and on the other hand, I'm now criticised by the representative Olemic Thommessen that there are too many criteria. It's a little difficult to maintain this criticism and balance it. But I think it is a responsibility for the Cultural Council to contribute to the geographical distribution of cultural resources. There's a lot of records where we have that in mind. After all, it's an independent cultural council that's supposed to make decisions based on independent artistic discretion. But that they have a responsibility: Yes! It is spreading culture across the country and that there are tour activities in the areas that the market does not cover, which are their responsibility. I think that's very important, an important part of spreading cultural resources. It's also about reaching out to people who don't usually go to the cultural institutions. It's important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e261	So now it wasn't the geography I asked about. There are probably several ways to distribute power and resources across the country. What I was addressing now is about the issue of arm's length and the criticism that the Right has presented to the Government in many contexts, both in terms of the governance we believe it is by the cultural institutions, and therefore, by this crossroad, the governance we believe to be introduced into the Council of Culture, and implemented through today's structure down to the individual application procedure. These include clear leadership from the government in terms of diversity, child and youth investment and gender equality — to mention three key areas. Taking them seriously means setting a very clear framework for the types of projects to be supported. I repeat the question: does the Council of State not see that this is really a rather strong governance of cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e268	On the contrary: there is less governance of the Cultural Council's allocations now than it was when the Right was in government. At the time, the government made more decisions about who would receive direct support. It is more today decentralised to the Council of Culture. It means less political treatment, less political intervention in whom to get money. What I think is a little bit strange about this criticism is that geographical distribution is a perfectly legitimate goal. But to say that it's also going to reach the minority population, I get the understanding of it here is over-management and contrary to artistic discretion. I believe it is about the same discussion, namely that artistic talent can be found in the whole population, that one has to make one's own artistic decisions. But reaching out is a central goal for our art institutions. It is not a goal for art – it should be free and independent – but our institutions should aim to achieve and disseminate quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e275	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e291	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e300	The Committee has had a proposal for a representative – document 8:28 – on the preservation of the National Gallery’s Munch Hall for consideration. The National Gallery is an important historical building, and it has great symbolic value. Many people have a close relationship with this building. The building, from 1882, has been our leading exhibition site for Norwegian art through the ages. There is broad consensus within the Committee on the historical importance of the building. The Committee also agrees that it is an important national and state task to contribute to the management of Munch's art in such a way that art taxes are preserved for the future. It is a great responsibility for the State to ensure that Munch's art is preserved and made available to the public in a worthy and good manner. There's no disagreement here. The proposal for a representative deals with the conservation of the building's Munch hall. A short time ago, the construction of the Riksantikvaren was restored. This ensures the original architecture of the building. It is also worth taking care of as an example of Heinrich Ernst Schirmer's and Adolf Schirmer's art and is one of their works that is truly worth protecting and caring for in the future. The Committee interprets the proposal for a representative to the effect that the proposers now want to be at peace with the art that hangs on the walls of the Munch Hall. So if I get it right, the proposers will use the Peace Institute to intervene and control how a museum will make exhibitions, and in which premises the exhibition will be presented. Such cultural policy is not supported by the majority of the Committee. The majority of the Committee therefore proposes that the proposal be rejected. There should be a broad recognition that in Norway we have not sufficiently recognised and understood the range of Munch's art internationally. It's not an argument for peaceing one particular arena for the presentation of Munch's art. It should rather inspire us to facilitate the further development of the exhibition of Munch's art and facilitate the future development of the arena for this. The Committee considers it an important national and state task to contribute to the good management of Munch's art and to make it available to the public in a good and dignified manner. That's one of our central tasks. The majority of the Committee considers that the proposal of the Progress Party is not a good contribution in this way, and proposes – as I said – that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e313	As the rapporteur has pointed out, the third time we are dealing with this matter is in a relatively short period of time. The majority of the Committee notes that the proponents of the Progress Party still believe that an essential chapter of Norwegian cultural history will be deleted if the Munch paintings are moved out of their historical context. The same majority believe that the cultural historical significance of Munch paintings is not determined by whether they are located in the National Gallery or in other localities. It is appropriate to recall that these art taxes are an essential part of our art history to be managed and maintained independently of the fate of the National Gallery. We believe it is an important national and state task to contribute to the management of Munch's art in such a way that these unique art taxes are preserved in the future. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to ensure that Munch's art is preserved and made available to the public in a dignified and correct manner. As the representative, Håbrek, said in his post: we all agree that is right. However, we, who represent the majority in this matter, believe that this can be done in ways other than those mentioned in the proposal for a representative. There is no disagreement in this Chamber that the National Gallery is an important monumental building of high symbolic value. The current preservation ensures the original architecture of the building. We, who make up the majority, interpret the proposal as meaning that the proposers now want to peace also the art that hangs on the walls of the Munch Hall in the National Gallery. In other words, as the representative, Håbrek, we perceive that the representatives will use the Peace Institute to intervene and control how a museum will make exhibitions, and in which premises the exhibitions will be presented. Such a procedure is on a collision course with an important and fundamental principle that a museum should at all times have full professional freedom to choose themes and exhibition solutions, provided that the exhibition solutions do not present a danger to the safety of the works of art. So far there's nothing to suggest it, rather on the contrary. The National Museum is planning a new Munch hall in the new building on the West Railway. There, Munch's artworks will get better security and exhibition conditions than they've ever had. We all look forward to that day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e332	The National Gallery was recently protected by the Riksantikvaren. Peace includes the National Gallery of the University Street and the building's interior and exterior. The interior of the building, i.e. space sharing, building parts and surfaces in those parts of the interior that are originally built from the year of construction are now secured – we think that is positive. There is also the Munch Hall an important element. The rescue of the exterior of the building shall ensure its original architecture. In particular, the peace should facilitate further exhibition purposes in the building, and that is very good, especially when we have not received any feedback from the government about what the post-use of the gallery should be when moving to the West Railway. That is why this is very, very good. The National Gallery is an important monumental building of great symbolic value. The restoration that has now been made ensures the original architecture of the building and that it will continue to be exhibited there in the future – it will be fully established. I also believe that peaceing the art that hangs on the walls of the Munch Hall is important to get a whole. That is why we have promoted this proposal. The National Gallery is one of our national monuments. The purpose of the peace of the Munch Hall is to preserve several central works of our foremost artists. This must be a national responsibility – it says pretty much everybody, I hear no one saying anything else. We see that the Municipality of Oslo does not have the great competence to take care of Munch's works. It is claimed that the proposal of the Progress Party is on a collision course with the principle of professional freedom. However, I would like to point out that this principle is fully respected, all the time the establishment of the hall was just done with the exhibition of Munch's works as the purpose and in cooperation with Munch. When the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party can stand up here and say what they say, that the professional freedom is not there, they have misunderstood, or they have no knowledge of it. The hall itself is linked to the images, it is closely linked – and should be peaced. The building is central to the architecture of Oslo — within the framework of kidney sensitisation in Norway — as well as being a central Norwegian museum building linked to research and dissemination of visual art. It has so much history. The National Gallery is the Riksantikvaren’s first settlement in the 2012 anniversary year, when the directorate is 100 years old. The objective of preserving the National Gallery is both cultural and architectural historical, and is therefore very well justified, which is why there is a lack of focus on the I. According to the Riksantikvaren, the National Gallery is an important building of great symbolic value, which I have been in several times, and as most in this room have said. But little is done, there are few signs of what the future will show for the National Gallery. The National Gallery jumps out of the national currents that we had in the 1800s, and has been central to the development of Norwegian art and culture. The national gallery houses the country's largest public collections of paintings, drawings and sculptures per day, a particularly good collection of Norwegian national romantic painting and not least Edvard Munch's pictures. Many people are just visiting the National Gallery today just to experience the hall and to experience Munch's photos. Only 6-7 pst. art has been exhibited in public, and it is also regrettable that you cannot get it out of the magazines. Since the establishment of the National Museum, there have been plans to expand on and at Tullinløkka. For a long time, the government has made it clear that a new national museum will be set up at the West Railway in Oslo and include the National Gallery, the Art Industry Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art. The debate on this matter has shown that there is a great deal of commitment to the national museum and its content. I don't think we're done there, because I understand that Focus at the NRK tonight is going to send 1 hour on how this has become, that you are now moving from the National Gallery, don't want to peace the Munch Hall and don't take responsibility for our history. Then I want to promote the proposal that the Progress Party has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e364	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e367	The National Gallery’s Munch Hall is managed by the National Museum, a heavy art institution. The building we're talking about has been reviewed by the Riksantikvaren in relation to the question of peace and is basically peace. In this context, there is also reason to believe that the question of the preservation of the Munch Hall has been assessed, and that, at the intersection of the administration of the National Museum with the intervention of the Riksantikvar, it has not been wanted and not seen to be necessary – or appropriate – on the basis of professional criteria to make a peace of this particular space. So these are heavy professional institutions in relevant areas in relation to the object we're talking about. On a general basis, I would like to say that this room should be very careful to become professionals when it comes to making the kind of decisions that a rescue involves. In particular, perhaps this should be taken into account when there are so strong professional environments involved in this specific resolution that the proposers want to promote. So, from the Right, we think that this is basically not a matter for the Storting, and that there is no consideration in this context of any kind of immediate action or of the authorities involved in this issue. Another question is how we as a nation preserve Edvard Munch's art and memory. It's a bigger discussion. I noticed that the proposer from the Progress Party believed that the Municipality of Oslo lacks competence in this. I will allow myself to mention that I think that the Progress Party has contributed significantly to the confusion and difficulty of the theme of the dissemination of Edvard Munch, without me going into the depths of this. I would also say that the discussion about next year's marking of Edvard Munch, as far as the government's bets are concerned, should also be a theme. The funds earmarked for this marking are probably not more than they should be compared to Edvard Munch's international weight. But these are bigger and different questions than what this case is about, and I therefore choose not to go further on those themes of this crossroads. But so: In short, the Right's position is that this kind of question does not belong in the Storting, especially in the light of the heavy professional bodies that manage the hall we're talking about, and taking into account that the Riksantikvar as the responsible authority for matters of settlement has been involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e380	Discussing what the Ministry of Culture is going to do and what to keep away from decisions in the field of culture is a discussion we often have with the Advance Party, where the party takes very different positions. Yesterday I experienced being called both one and the other because I wanted to control the Cup final coming on a free channel, while representatives of the Advance Party have asked me to intervene and secure the Hinkle pin on children's television. Some of the same confusion arises in the discussion here today, when, in the first debate, we are accused of taking too much action in relation to the Council of Culture's allocations, and now we get the exact opposite – now you want to go directly into and control what the National Museum is going to hang on the walls. I have full confidence in the National Museum in this area, and I also have full confidence in the professional competence of the Riksantikvaren in this field. I also get a little confused when the National Museum is criticized for just showing 6 pst. of the art they have in their magazines. But if we're going to sit in this room and make decisions about what to hang on the walls of the individual art museum, there won't be much professional freedom to decide what to show where, and then you get little replacement in the exhibitions. I would also like to stress that what was said about the Municipality of Oslo does not lead to correctness. The municipality of Oslo has relatively good magazines at the Munch Museum in Tøen. You can discuss whether the viewing arenas are good enough, but it's like the museums at Tøjen, which take care of Munch's art there, are significantly better than the magazines we have at the National Gallery, which takes care of Norwegian artists there – just so it's said in this room. I note with satisfaction that the majority of the Committees are so unambiguous and have stressed that it is fundamentally unfortunate that today's exhibition of Munch works in the National Museum should be ordered to be frozen. Munch's greatness as an artist is in no way dependent on one particular point of view. I want to show you the success that the Munch exhibition has recently had in the Pompidou Centre in Paris. The exhibition room was very different from what we have in the National Gallery, and Munch's artistic greatness could nevertheless be shown to a large audience. Munch’s work will definitely also come to its place in the newly built Western runway, and then under security and conservation conditions that are much better than what today’s premises can provide. The Riksantikvaret has now protected the National Gallery as a building. This ensures that the national gallery is maintained as a building-historical memorial. At the same time, some flexibility is provided, in the sense that the building can be upgraded and rehabilitated in such a way that it is possible to have different forms of public activity there when the National Museum moves out of its activities. We also note that the Municipality of Oslo is conducting an investigation, in which the National Gallery is to be assessed as an alternative to the new Munch Museum. The municipality must make an independent assessment of this issue. Should the municipality conclude that the National Gallery is the best option for a new Munch museum, a possible municipal project will be assessed against other proposals for the use of the National Gallery. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the National Museum of the Western Railway Area. The pilot project shall be completed during these days and then subjected to external quality assurance. State buildings have submitted proposals for a regulatory plan for treatment in the municipality of Oslo, and I assume that a proposal on a binding cost framework for new buildings will be submitted to Stortinget for the autumn. As the project now emerges, the National Museum of the West Bank will be an arena for the visual art expressions, which internationally put Norway on the map of important and exciting art museums. We are going to create an arena here in Oslo as art-interested in the whole country – and in many other countries – should be able to enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e402	It is important that the use of the national gallery be discussed. It is important that the use of the National Gallery should also be protected by the government, and we have repeatedly called on the government to give signals about what the construction is being used for. Now, fortunately, it's peace, so it's got its limitations on what to use for. Otherwise, I would have been terrified that we would get Petter Stordalen in there with a new hotel, but we have managed to avoid that. What's also interesting is the post-use of this special space that has been developed by Munch in collaboration with the museum in its time. What is it for? I have questions to the Council of State: the use of the National Gallery — what does the Council of State see there? Does the Council of State want to engage with funds, premises, as far as our great national artist Munch is concerned, to help Oslo out of the problem that they have there?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e411	To the extent that the Progress Party wants to sort this out with the Munch Museum in Oslo, I encourage the representative to contact his party traps in the Municipality of Oslo, where the representative's party has a majority. I think it's easier than I intervene in this area, and I have no authority to do that either. In terms of post-use of the National Gallery, we'll come back to that, we have time to make decisions about that. It's a long time before you have to move the National Museum's collections out and into the new building, and I'll take the time to make a decision. I will also come back to Stortinget and inform about it. National constructions assess different aspects of the National Gallery, including: an opportunity study has been carried out to show how the building can interact with the Tullin onions in a different way to that of today. Once this process has been completed, the government will arrive at Stortinget in an appropriate manner in terms of use.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e419	I am pleased that we are now getting such clear signals from the Council of State that we are working on the post-use of the National Gallery. It's important, and it's important that we get started. I think that's very, very good. I did not ask if the Council of State would intervene with the Municipality of Oslo, but I asked if the Council of State would engage with the premises, with funds and have any opinion on it. No, you should not intervene with the municipalities, but you can make arrangements, and you can get involved both orally, in writing and by means.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e426	It is a little unclear to me what the Progress Party believes in this matter. To lock Munch's collections to one of the halls in the National Museum, while the Oslo Progress Party wants the Munch Museum to be moved into the National Gallery, we must transfer works of art from the state to the municipality – that is to say, the very opposite of the signal given by the representative Thomsen, that is, that the state should take greater responsibility for Munch's collections. So it's a little bit unclear to me what's really the signal here. I believe it would be fundamentally wrong if I went in and ruled the Municipality of Oslo on this question. There has been a lot of disagreement, a lot of parties have changed their positions. This is probably a significantly greater reason why a decision has not been made in the municipality of Oslo than the state has not intervened.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e433	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e438	The Progress Party will bring peace to the Munch Hall in the National Gallery, so that – according to their own proposal – you can also present in the future and visit a hall specially built for this purpose. The proposal itself implies an impregnation of an error because the current national gallery has travelled about. 50 years before Munch was widely recognized, so it is impossible to arranged in view of his art. On the other hand, if you want to decorate a hall specifically dedicated and adapted to Munch's art, the possibility is now when you move to the new National Museum of the West Railway. I believe that this interest in Munch also seems a bit grumpy, given that the Progress Party in Oslo has gone from a cross-political agreement to establish a new Munch museum based on the Oslo Municipality Collection in Bjørvika. So I actually also agree with the Council's reply to the representative of the Progress Party, namely that the Progress Party sits on the key to getting ahead of that matter, if it is such that you are so keen and have such warm feelings for Munch's art, and not just for an image suspension that you probably think is as brilliant as art itself. So it's this thing about inviting the Storting to have an opinion about conservation, not just of the building, because it's done, not just of the interior, because it's done. The forecourt is protected, it is assumed that the building will continue to be used for exhibition purposes. What, then, will peace serve? I'm a big fan of saving houses where the alternative is demolition, because then it's a definitive decision. But this is so that the pictures don't go away, the artworks don't go away, the exhibition hall is still available to the people of Oslo. That means that if there were to be new professional winners and new art historians, and in particular a new view of this, the current Munch Hall actually makes itself more viable, because it's not about tearing up either the pictures, the exhibition room or the building. So you can reverse, and that's one of the points of peace as a protection against demolition, that you can't reverse decisions. Then we should have given it a chance to see if you couldn't use modern exhibition techniques, modern solutions, establish worthy and secure exhibition conditions for Munch's art in the new National Museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e447	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e461	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e470	One of the main challenges of petroleum policy in the future is to ensure that as much of the petroleum resources as possible are addressed by existing fields on Norwegian soil. The size of the last-harvest petroleum message was treated, and increased extraction rates were also considered to be one of the most important tasks in the future. The background for this is simple: estimates from the Oil Directorate show that for each percentage point we can increase the extraction rate of oil, this can have gross values of about 270 billion. kr with an oil price of $70 per barrel – and as is known the oil price today is far above that, so these estimates must be said to be extremely careful. The degree of extraction on the Norwegian base is today approx. 46 pst. if all plans available for enhanced extraction are actually implemented. There's a high number globally, but it just means full that more than half of the oil actually stays in the reservoirs. The rate of extraction of gas is some higher, but also here there is a potential for increased extraction rate. The issue we now have to deal with concerns the plan for the development and operation of Åsgard underwater compression. This project can be said to represent a technological milestone by shifting processing equipment down to the seabed – in order to reduce costs but also to increase extraction rates. This underwater compression results in the total extraction rate of gas and condensate on the Midgard body rising from 67 to 87 pst. and on the Mikkel field from 52 to 67 pst. This is a type of technology development that can also be used in other Norwegian-wide fields, so it is not only these licences that will benefit from this pioneer project; other fields can also use this technology to increase the rate of exploitation and reduce costs. I would like to pay tribute to the licenses and partners to take the initiative and actually implement this project. Åsgard underwater compression shows the importance of research and technological development in order to increase resource use in existing areas on Norwegian soil. This is why the Right-wing resources are a priority for research in the annual budgets. The costs of the project may be slightly higher than the original calculations. The size was noted by the Minister of Oil and Energy in the course of the investigation on this matter by a possible cost increase of up to 20 p.m., i.e. investments could increase from 13.1 billion. kr to 15.7 br. kr. Nevertheless, the project was considered to be both socially profitable and robust. It is an overall committee that recommends the approval of the plan for the development and operation of Åsgard underwater compression.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e487	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the job – and at the same time a unanimous committee, which is why I should not say so much. Åsgard underwater compression is a good example of an offensive measure that contributes, not least, to increased extraction from fields of production. This project increases the extraction of gas from the fields Åsgard and Mikkel – it is important for future value creation from the fields, and it is important as it contributes to expanding the horizon of the Norwegian Sea as an important petroleum province. The development solution involves a new and very important technology leap, as the case-rapporteur also said, which will contribute to increased extraction from several fields on the Norwegian continental shelf and not least globally in the future. The petroleum industry has been working for several years to bring such equipment down to the seabed, not least in order to reduce costs and increase extraction. This is a milestone and represents the next generation of oil and gas extraction – and we have come a long way in technological development. This is a very good industrial project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e496	There is no reason to keep a very long post on Åsgard's underwater compression, but it is nevertheless true that this case is getting attention, just as the case-speaker said, because of the technology step being taken here. We should bear in mind that technology clusters and supply clusters that come with Norwegian petroleum industry are not only an important industry in Norway, but also a major export industry for our country. Therefore, this matter is of more importance than it has been given. The fact that we are developing technologies on the ground that are being used in our area and that are in addition potential exports is a value that is worth paying attention to. Then the case spokesperson is quite right about the increased extraction rate. If there is something there must be a full deal about in this room, it is precisely the importance of exploiting the fields that we have established around the Norwegian base, better. It's about value creation, but it's also about a management responsibility we have, relating to this great resource. So briefly – to the end: there is a joint committee that is in favour of this, and it is a technology leap that is worth noting – and that sparks attention to a greater extent than it might get in this debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e505	I am both happy and proud to be able to promote this large industrial project Åsgard underwater compression for Stortinget. The main objective we have set ourselves in the field of oil and gas policy is to facilitate profitable production in the long term. To achieve this goal, we decided in Meld. St. 28 last year, An industry for the future, that there must be offensive and parallel to several things at the same time. We need to increase the extraction from fields of production and expand drifty findings, we need to continue an active exploration of open land both in mature and immature areas, and we need to implement the opening of new areas. There is a need for a parallel bet in all of these areas in order for us to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. It is not possible to choose one or two of the measures. Then we won't succeed. Åsgard underwater compression is a good example of an offensive measure that contributes to increased extraction from fields of production. The project will increase the extraction of gas from the fields Åsgard and Mikkel. It is important for future value creation from the fields. It is important as it helps to expand the horizon of the Norwegian Sea as an important petroleum province. Not enough of this: the expansion solution involves a new and very important technology leap that will contribute to increased extraction from several fields on Norwegian continental shelf and globally in the future. The project results in a significant increase in the overall extraction rate from the Midgard instance at Åsgard and from the Mikkel field. It's about 280 million. extra barrel oil equivalents. Thus, the increased extraction from the fields that the project will provide is larger than the total expected extractable resources from several of the new, autonomous expansions we have on the Norwegian base. The project is also large in economic terms. The investments are intended to be made in excess of 15 billion. kr. The expected present value is calculated to be above 23 billion. kr. It means big income to the community. The project is profitable even with a much lower oil and gas price than we expect in the future. Åsgard underwater compression is thus a socio-economically profitable and robust project. The petroleum industry has been working for several years to move processing equipment down to the seabed. In this way, reduced costs can be achieved, extraction can be increased and energy efficiency improved. Marine-based processing and gas compression as planned in this project represents a new step towards the next generation of oil and gas deployment – an important step towards the realisation of a complete underwater processing plant. Other fields, such as Gullfaks and Worm Lange, are in the starting pit to launch and further develop similar technologies to increase extraction. In total, the projects at Åsgard, Gullfak and Worm Long-range ground-breaking projects are raising global awareness. I think this will be enough of a technology that will be put into use in many petroleum provinces around the world in the future. This will benefit the Norwegian petroleum-oriented supplier industry. It has been central both in the development of technology and in the implementation of concrete projects. For example, the Norwegian share of investments in Åsgard underwater compression represents: an estimated 60 pst. Operators behind these projects deserve praise for their technological boldness. Their success through increased extraction and more profitable field development on a Norwegian base will serve the state as a resource owner most of all. To achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the field of petroleum policy, we need many more increased extraction projects such as Åsgard underwater compression. Such projects are important and necessary elements in delivering on the long-term strategy for the petroleum activity such as Storting through the treatment of Notifying. St. 28 has joined. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has endorsed the government's proposal to extend and operate Åsgard underwater compression.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e526	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e540	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e554	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e568	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e582	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e596	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e610	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e624	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e631	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e639	In the course of the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward three proposals, the proposals No. 1-3, on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the closure of the Norwegian Cultural Council and its underlying entities, in their present form. Instead, the Council for a Living Cultural Life, based on the intentions set out in Document 8:37 S, is established. [[2011-2012]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure greater transparency in the allocations and rejections of the Norwegian Cultural Council/Council for a Living Cultural Life.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the 2013 government budget to set up cultural funding in accordance with the principle that central actions are financed exclusively from the State budget, while the Norwegian Cultural Council/Council for a Living Cultural Life shall stimulate broad cultural participation through seed mentality and start-up incentives.’; Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e664	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e681	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to ensure the preservation of the National Gallery’s Munch Hall, so that Edvard Munch’s works can also be exhibited and visited in a hall specially built for this purpose in the future.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e696	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e729	In the case of cases No. 4–10, are the second legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-27.ana.ud780e778	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
