ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e197	The representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Morten Højlund, Ingarill Olsen, Eirik Sivertsen and Eirin Sund, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on welfare leave of the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen from 11 June to 13 June from the Working Party on the leave of the representative Anette Trettebergstuen from 11 June to 15 June to take part in the programme of studies on French social policy, in Paris from the representative Dagfinn Høybräten on leave from 11 June to 15 June for participation in meetings of the chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund in Washington On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud County: Ida Marie Holen and Trond Røed For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e261	Ida Marie Holen, Trond Røed, Thor Lillehovde and Kjell Arvid Svendsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e267	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e277	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e280	On behalf of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Kenneth Svendsen, Jørund Rytman and myself, I propose tax exemptions for an employer-funded monthly card.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e285	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e289	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal on several centres of excellence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e294	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e310	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e319	The autonomy of patients and human rights are important and fundamental principles of all treatment. In the field of mental health protection, volunteering in treatment and the reduction and proper use of coercive measures are a goal for the whole service. But we have to admit that in any case, in some situations and towards some patients, one will have to use coercion, including security and control measures, for the benefit of the patient himself and/or for the sake of other people and society. It would be naive not to take seriously that there is a small group of patients with severe mental illness who at the same time have an increased risk of serious violence. These are considered to be particularly dangerous for other persons. This group is not homogeneous, and the danger is not necessarily related to the mental disorder. The danger may be linked to other aspects of an individual, demographic or contextual nature. The draft law that the Stortinget deals with in this matter deals with the security provisions of regional security departments, the legal basis for setting up and security provisions around an entity with a particularly high level of security and the establishment of a national coordination unit. The legislative changes do not include conditions of coercive treatment, transfer to regional security departments or the scope/length of treatment, even if the debate around the law could give the impression for a period of time. The case includes significant and significant changes of major importance to patients, employees and relatives associated with the Regional Security Departments and covered by the National Coordination Unit. There are issues that affect human rights, individual autonomy and the principle relationship between punishment and treatment. In the proposition, the government has thoroughly addressed these issues, both related to human rights, the Basic Law and legal decisions affecting these issues. The patient base of the regional security departments indicates that violence is a current issue in these departments. Violence may affect other patients, visitors and personnel and persons outside the departments. Different recording procedures have shown that there are a number of events that can be linked to this. At the Health Bergen HF Regional Security Section, 67 episodes of serious injury to personnel were recorded in 2011. That same year at St. Olav's Hospital, 494 claims were recorded caused by a total of 14 patients. In the consultation round of the legislative proposal, improved security in relation to these departments has received broad support from those responsible for the units, the professional organisations concerned and the patient organisations. Although there is disagreement in the Committee's position on a single point, I feel that there is broad political support for the need for better security provisions in regional security departments, the need for the establishment of specific security provisions in an entity with a particularly high level of security and the establishment of a national coordination unit. Today’s law requires justified suspicion of examination of the patient’s person, space and assets. Body cavity examination is not permitted, except under emergency law. These limitations on the feasibility of the study mean that the professional community considers that there is uncertainty about the level of risk for co-patients, personnel and the environment. The requirement of concrete suspicion and the prohibition of patient cavity investigations can either lead to an excessive level of safety, if the law requires practice, or the practice becomes such that the legal basis and legal certainty of the practice are not sufficient. Therefore, the establishment of better security procedures relating to regional security departments and the possibility of more routine control of entry and exit is fully supported within the Committee. The same applies to the creation of a separate unit with a particularly high level of safety. The transfer criteria are very strict. This will be an offer that may occasionally be needed for a few extremely few patients, and the main difference between this and an ordinary department will be that the security measures that can be used in a regional department will be mainly mandatory in such a department. There is also broad support for the establishment of a national coordination unit, which will provide a greater opportunity to have an overview of patients sentenced to transfer to mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e342	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good report and for a good committee reading. I am pleased that there is a broad majority in the Committee on the proposal submitted. The legislative proposal covers the security provisions of the Regional Security Departments, the legal basis for establishment and the security provisions of the entity with a particularly high level of security and the establishment of a national coordination unit. Like the rapporteur, I would like to point out that the changes to the law do not therefore include conditions of coercion, transfer to regional security departments or the scope/length of treatment, although many in the media have focused on such issues. The patient base of the regional security departments indicates that violent behaviour is a topical issue in these departments. Violence may affect other patients, visitors and personnel and, in the case of escape, persons outside the departments. Different procedures for recording aggression, threats, precursors of violence and violence show that these departments regularly do so. In 2011, 67 incidents of serious injury to staff were recorded at the Health Bergen Regional Security Section. In the same year at St. Olav's hospital, a total of 494 claims were recorded caused by a total of 14 patients. The Health South-East Regional Security Department has reported a number of cases, such as repeated threats, violence, hostage-taking, drug abuse and other criminal offences, which provide a basis for notification. So it's time to get better security from these departments. Several have pointed out the danger that the new rules to investigate assets, etc., looking for weapons and other things, will be anti-treatment. In addition, today’s situation is a treatment-retardant. Looking at the extent of situations in the regional security departments, there is every reason to believe that creating a safer framework for everyone there will work positively, including in relation to treatment. This was also pointed out by the Medical Association during the hearing. In rare cases, a unit with a particularly high level of safety may be required. Such a unit shall be part of a regional security department but may be physically located elsewhere. I am also pleased that an overall committee agrees to this, and that it can also be added, for example. prison. A prerequisite for this is that the unit meets the same requirements as health care institutions, both professionally and physically. The transfer to the unit shall be rare and only in exceptional cases. A transfer may only be adopted in specific cases where there is a particular risk of escape, hostage-taking, serious and violent behaviour or attack against the patient himself, co-patients or personnel. It is quite clear from the bill that these criteria underlie such a transfer. I believe that in such a safety assessment it would not be right to separate patients who have been sentenced to mandatory mental health protection from those who are not. It is not the basis for the centralisation of detention; the important thing is the risk of very serious incidents in society and the safety of patients and personnel. Patients who are not sentenced to mandatory mental health protection may also represent a particular safety risk. There are many examples of people who have been sentenced to ordinary prison sentences for different conditions, which can become psychotic during acquittal. They will need treatment in the field of mental health protection, and the necessary safety measures must also be available for such patients. But it is not possible to follow the proposals of the People's Party and the Christian People's Party for a vote. That the Progress Party believes this, is probably breaking with most of the things they have said in the past about such cases, and I wonder if it's just a glitch, or if they're actually resetting the course for their criminal welfare policy. If the last vote, it was anyway a strange place to start for the party that's trying to be tough on crime. Finally, I hope that today's debate will help to clarify some of the misunderstandings that have arisen in the media about the matter, and that you will be given a good idea of what the matter is actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e363	In this case, it has been important to have a quick clarification, primarily for the sake of the legal proceedings in Oslo District Court. Therefore, this case has been dealt with with with an abnormally short consultation period before it was promoted, and at an unnaturally high pace in the committee – this in order to get the legislation in place as soon as possible. Several have responded to this approach, a vision of the Progress Party far on the road parts. Today’s legislation has been concerned with weaknesses, shortcomings and uncertainties in dealing with some issues both in relation to criminal law and in the field of mental health protection. It is therefore high time to carry out a thorough review of these issues, and it is therefore a pity that the matter was raised with such urgency. The Progress Party has more concerns about this matter. Let me first begin by stating that we believe that we must have a law that ensures that people who commit criminal acts must be able to stay away from society, even in their lifetime. There is no disagreement as to the need for such a tightening. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is concerned about the assessments that have been made and whether this amendment is contrary to the Constitution. We are concerned for two main reasons: firstly, we believe that the Storting should be careful to adopt new laws that may be contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, and secondly, that we have seen several issues in recent years where the government has made changes to the law that have subsequently been set aside, because they have been contrary to the Basic Law's provisions on retroactive effect. Despite these appeals, the Progress Party has nevertheless chosen to join the Ministry’s assessments, but with some critical comments. In this case, the Government also proposes a national coordination unit, the need for better interaction between the health and justice sectors and knowledge and governance data in order to better plan the provision of services. This supports the Progress Party. In one area, however, the Progress Party separates the layer by the majority, and it is on the question of who should be able to enter the new unit with a particularly high level of security, which was also addressed to the representative of Breen. The Progress Party considers it appropriate to move persons convicted of criminal offences and for forced mental health protection to such a unit. Then such a unit can be located within the prison walls for our part. However, we have major problems in accepting that even mentally ill people who have never committed any criminal acts should now be able to be put into prison in principle, along with those who have committed serious criminal acts. In our view, the proposal does not work properly. The legal certainty of the individual is almost violated, and the sickest of them are faced with criminals – contrary to what this group needs. The knowledge and attitudes of society towards the mentally ill are already very stigmatizing. Serious mentally ill people, who have never committed anything criminal, are today picked up by the police over health professionals, among others. due to lack of psychiatry ambulances. So now they have to be able to go to prison. What has been crucial for the Progress Party in this matter is the fact that the vast majority of those currently being treated in the regional security departments have never done anything criminal, but are now subject to the new law and thus equivalent to heavy criminals. The party believes that when the government opens up this, the whole focus of mental health protection is changed. In our opinion, there is a clear breach of what has been the long lines in the treatment of mentally ill people, namely a worthy treatment offer. The Health and Welfare Committee is committed to tightening up the law for people convicted of compulsory mental health protection, but the Progress Party will not introduce patients into these departments other than those who have actually done something wrong. In this way, we believe that we can both meet the needs of society for protection, while at the same time safeguarding the fundamental rights of sick people. I refer to the proposal on which the Progress Party is involved and which is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e391	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e394	Today, the size of the population deals with changes in the laws designed to facilitate a slightly larger but limited possibility of taking security measures in regional security departments. In very rare cases, there will still be a need for a level of safety that can meet the need for particularly high security. It is proposed that a new unit with a particularly high level of security be established, subject to one of the regional security departments, and that within such a unit there should be specific rules on security measures. The reason for the changes is that we have a law within mental health protection that is not good enough to meet the requirements we have for security today. There is no concealment that a specific case has been a catalyst for work. Within mental health, the treatment is most liberal and reduced and appropriate use of coercive measures. However, in some situations coercion, including security and control measures, is required for the patient himself and/or for the consideration of other people or society otherwise. Health professionals have called for changes in the mental health law in order to be better able to maintain the safety of health institutions that work out and treat patients who represent a high risk of elective behaviour. Aggression and violence, injuring as a result of violence and escape, favours the country's regional security departments. The conditions under which security measures may be implemented, e.g. Search, have ours too sneeze. Dangerous situations have arisen, with an increased risk of co-patients, personnel and society otherwise. In the answer to this question, a better law will be required to deal with the most demanding submissions. So let's do that. Some of the new changes may affect very few patients. At the same time, we make changes that allow them to be added by security departments to ensure that there are no dangerous items coming within the institutional walls, thus strengthening security. The changes are about providing more security for those added to the psychiatry, for the patient and for the community around it. However, the case represents a democratic dilemma, as it raises questions about the relationship with the Constitution § 97 and articles of the European Convention on Human Rights. The proposition suggests that some changes can be made to the specifications for the implementation of mental health protection without infringing the prohibition on giving laws retroactive effect, and that the proposed legislative changes are within the limits of what is acceptable in relation to the discretion of the national authorities. It is argued from the Ministry's point of view that the proposed changes to the law are partly based on patient's own safety, which implies that there is no breach of the Constitution § 97 and the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 7. These are complicated deviations, but the estimates are now being extended to Stortinget. The centre party will take up a special comment from the setting, where the committee refers to several hearing bodies criticising the fact that the timing of the legislative work and its processing has been shorter than normal. Some user organisations have expressed their concern that the proposed claims may have an adverse effect on patients in regional security departments. On the other hand, several hearing services have expressed the need for similar services in several health institutions, such as: in acute psychiatric wards and local security wards. On this basis, the Committee calls on the Ministry to follow up on the impact of the new regulations, to include the inclusion of the responsibilities for achieving the objectives envisaged, and to provide an appropriate orientation for the Storting. This is important so that we ensure that the changes work after the intention, and so that we follow closely and discover any unfortunate consequences. So in addition, parts of the psychiatry have stressed that one should make several changes that apply to the other patients. This is something that we take seriously, and that we should consider more closely as the new changes are going to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e417	For a long time, professional communities have called for better security of regional safety departments. The three regional departments have experienced and recorded many aberrations and adverse events in the form of aggression, threats, violence and violence in the department. There are very strict criteria for being admitted at all by a safety department, which should remain so. These are individuals with a significant risk of violent behaviour towards other patients and personnel. In this respect, I think it is important to bear in mind Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It implies that the authorities have an obligation to legally protect the right of every citizen to life. I think that we all think this is a demanding matter, not least we in Stortinget, who have had a short time for treatment. I am pleased that the government in its proposition has carefully assessed the new bill in relation to both human rights, the Constitution and current case law in other comparable countries. Any form of coercion in psychiatry poses challenges in relation to human rights. The Christian People's Party, together with the Progress Party, has chosen to point out the seriousness and uncertainty that many have pointed out in the hearing, relating to human rights. We specifically ask that the government in the context of the implementation of the law ensure that there is no conflict with these. The government also aims to reduce coercive use in psychiatry — an important work being done. However, unfortunately, we do not avoid the necessity of any coercive use, and the use of coercive measures must therefore be carried out in a professionally sound manner that ensures the integrity and dignity of the patient. The way in which coercion is exercised is crucial here, which was also stated by Norwegian psychiatric association during the hearing. Patients admitted to safety services are mentally ill people. They must receive assistance in line with Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which I would like to quote: «No one must be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.» Nevertheless, we must ensure that psychiatry has a good enough law to reduce the risk of any new terrorist incident. The gravity of the action, which is the cause of the insertion into a unit with a particularly high level of safety, is an essential element, which is, in fact, also emphasised in the Convention on Human Rights. At the same time, I find it necessary to point out what several people have already said, that we are not deciding today whether a patient should be transferred to the security department, either how long the detention as such should last. As the Committee points out in its attitude, it is the security provisions in the security departments under consideration and the establishment of an enhanced security level unit. An important question is whether to distinguish between those admitted to regional health services under mental health law and, as a result, who have no current convictions and those who are convicted and who are also recognised as guilty of criminal offences. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party believe that we should, and justify this in the vote. We therefore propose that only patients who have been sentenced to forced health protection can be transferred to a unit with a particularly high level of safety, such as: The Association of Lawyers was also called for in the hearing. Finally, during the hearing, relatives and users’ organisation WSO, We Shall Overcome, pointed out that any professional, whether in the case of psychiatrists or police, has great confidence in their own assessments. This does not mean, however, that they should not be subject to legal requirements. I agree with that. The new legislation clarifies the rights of both patients and professionals. The new legislative proposal also necessarily takes into account the technological development of the present and the ability to communicate with very many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e444	The left understands that, because of the ongoing legal proceedings, there may be a desire for better security measures, but believes that today we are going in the wrong direction in terms of forced use, and that we are breaking a good deal of fundamental issues, which we should be deciding on in a more fundamental context. It is also possible, if the International Judicial Commission believes that there are strong rules and a good code for the use of coercion in Norwegian psychiatry, that some people think we need stricter rules. But if we go behind the numbers, if we go behind the numbers, for example. Look at the 375 comments that came to Health West in 2011, one – one – ended in medical treatment. So it's not as 'texas' out there as it might seem from this debate. The left is also very critical of the way in which the proceedings have been conducted, with short consultation periods. In fact, we react a little to the proposition, where many critical remarks and counter-representations – from the Association of Lawyers, the International Judicial Commission, the Ministry of Justice, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, the Civil Ombudsman and many more – are left out. It's actually not very often we experience in this room. First, a little bit about the regional security departments. It is not regulated which patients should be able to benefit from these. All transfers are very fuzzy. For what does ‘current risk of serious violent behaviour’ really mean? Is it necessary, then, to have committed violent conduct? Must it be threatened with violent behaviour? It's not clear from the law or the proposition, and we're critical of that. Today, a reasoned suspicion is required to investigate the patient’s assets, space and body. But with regard to the need to increase the scope for research, we believe that the bill goes far too far. The bill does not even require suspicion. ‘Studies may be carried out’, it says quite simply. It's a blank agent. This is offensive to people – who may become more ill by being exposed to such abuses. The intervention in the lawroom must be affected, we believe, and must have conditions. Blank leave for mental health care professionals is, after all, part of a different period of time. Yes, it is fascinating to compare this debate with previous debates we have had about coercion in psychiatry. It's a completely different tone from the parties, and it's a completely different basic attitude. Or as one printer in the last issue of «Syn and Søn»: ‘What is going on in the head of a politician who wants to punish a group of mentally ill collectively because Breivik might end up in a regional insurance department?’ If the requirements put in place are as follows: ‘It is not difficult to see that fewer people will call, write and visit the patient under such a regime.’ We don't want a blank authorization, we think you should have reason to believe before you intervene. So to those areas of particular safety risk. There are two main points we are responding to – I should have liked to have had longer speaking time today, I just have to say – one is that we are now creating a regime that is stricter than prison. We're making a regime that's much more stringent than prison -- sail if Breen starts talking about criminal care when I definitely thought we were discussing the law on mental health protection. We make a regime that is stricter than prison, but instead of there being courts, with lawyers and professionals who can judge, who are going to put people into regimes that are stricter than prison, the majority here believes that a single professional should be able to put people under such strict regimes, which we do not even put under sentence. That is why we have today proposed an alternative legal basis. First of all, it means that you have to be convicted of entering such a system, that there are courts that decide the transfer, and not a single professional. The government's proposal means that a doctor should be able to decide whether people should be put under the strictest control regime you can imagine for a human being, without any kind of control. You have to isolate people, just because they can be a danger to the outside world. This shows how much there is to have a liberal party, both in government and in the Justice Committee, and I will come back with further reasoning. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e479	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e482	We all need to feel safe in dealing with the health care system. It's absolutely crucial. Health also plays an important role in social protection related to the treatment of a few very dangerous patients. Unfortunately, conditions related to the safety of the very most dangerous patients in forced mental health protection have not contributed to sufficient safety. I want maximum freedom and minimum coercion, but in some cases there is a need for greater security than today to ensure the safety of patients, employees and society in general. I have always been open about the 22nd of July case updating this law. It has been important that the Storting should be given the opportunity to adopt the changes before the summer. This has resulted in faster legal work and a shorter consultation period than usual. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has noticed, however, that the government has been thoroughly involved in the relationship with human rights, with the Constitution and with judicial decisions relating to such issues. I also agree with the committee that the department must monitor the impact of the new provisions. The size shall be appropriately informed. Human rights are fundamental in our society. They impose an obligation on the authorities to protect the lives and health of citizens. Therefore, this proposal helps to strengthen human rights. In some cases, it is necessary to restrict the freedom of someone in order to safeguard the freedom and security of others, because human rights apply to all, including those who, in the worst case, are subjected to violence as a result of poor hospital security. It is described in detail in the proposition who can be transferred to a unit with a particularly high level of safety. Central moments in my proposal are the degree of risk associated with escape, hostage-taking, serious violent behaviour or attack against the patient himself, co-patients or personnel. Previously serious violent behaviour and the difficulty of a regional security department to ward off the dreaded actions are central to assessing the existence of a particular risk. I believe that the central issue of such an assessment is the risk that exists, not whether a patient has been convicted for mandatory mental health protection or is receiving treatment under the law on mental health protection. It is not the basis for the centralisation of detention, but the risk of very serious incidents and the safety of patients, personnel and society. It is well known that patients who are not sentenced to mandatory mental health protection can also represent a particular safety risk. An example of how inappropriate such a distinction may be is that persons sentenced to prison for very serious acts may become psychotic and need coercive treatment in mental health protection. These patients are not then sentenced to mandatory mental health protection, and they will not be able to be treated in the unit by such a distinction. I believe that the necessary safety measures must also be able to apply to such patients. This is a case of many dilemmas, but the measures are necessary. Some say the measures are coming too quickly, but my answer is that these legislative changes should have been promoted a long time ago. I would like to thank the Committee, and in particular the rapporteur, for their good cooperation. The Committee has contributed to a good and thorough examination of this matter, despite the time limits. I am also pleased that a large majority of the committee supports all of the government's proposals for changes to the law on mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e505	Many of us are of the opinion that psychiatry needs to be strengthened, and not least that we need to eliminate stigma and get the understanding that it is a disease and nothing else. In other words, mental illness must be treated with dignity. Now we're going into a situation where in the future you can actually get the situation that mentally ill people are suddenly on the cell next to Behring Breivik or other heavy criminals. The question then becomes whether the Council of State really believes that today’s health services to the mentally ill are so poor that they need to be locked in prison in order for society and the individual patient to feel safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e514	I want to stress that the psychiatry has been strengthened in recent years. Throughout the country, psychiatry has been strengthened, not least in the development of district psychiatric centres, many of which are around the municipalities, and which have contributed to a much better treatment of the mentally ill. They are given a much better offer, an offer there are also many places up to the individual how you want to use it, by choosing to deposit. With regard to this issue, it concerns three issues: the need to raise the safety level of regional safety departments — where there are many types of patients — and to open a unit with a particularly high level of safety, and to provide a better overview of those convicted of mandatory mental health protection with a national coordination unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e521	Over the weekend, one through the media has become aware that some of the local psychiatric departments have already partially initiated security measures, as proposed in this legislation, which will only apply to the regional departments. It also appeared in the consultation that some of the employees’ organisations were concerned about the safety of local units and that there is now so much difference between safety measures will also increase the pressure on patients to be transferred to regional departments. Will the government now, after this case, assess whether there is also a need for a review of the law relating to the local departments and security measures there?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e528	The Committee has, of course, asked that this be followed. We'll follow up on the experience. But I want to stress that here you are in a dilemma, because there are many who are admitted to psychiatric wards that are neither violent nor dangerous to anyone. They're just sick, and introducing these kind of security measures there would really be very intrusive, especially because both the size and the government are concerned that we're going to use as little coercion as possible. So this is a difficult balance. At the same time, I understand that someone is in very difficult situations. But this is something we have to follow up on, which requires a review of security in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e533	I have a question about whether the Minister of Health understands the delineation of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party in the matter, where we suggest that only patients who are sentenced to mandatory mental health protection can be transferred to a unit with a particularly high level of safety. Some background is that some of these will be able to experience it as punishment, as the location of this department may be within the prison walls.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e538	I would like to stress that in the case of the department with particularly high security, there will be a very thorough assessment of which patients are admitted there. But I also want to repeat what I said in my post, that with that distinction, patients who are convicted of serious crimes and who are dangerous to society but who become acutely mentally ill in prison and have to be treated in health care will be exempted. They wouldn't be able to transfer to such a unit, and where would they be taken care of? It is not certain that there is sufficient certainty in the ordinary departments that that security can be ensured. I also think that's a factor you have to take with you. Therefore, this concerns only the safety and the level of safety, and it applies in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e543	Here, there's a lot of inconsistencies in the argument, but I'm going to ask about it fundamentally. In fact, the Council of State said that this proposal should help to strengthen human rights. That reasoning suggests that there is a violation of human rights either to work with sick people or to be in a department of sick people that could pose a risk of violence. That means, in principle, that we can bury everything we've worked on in terms of reducing coercive use in mental health protection, which means that there is always a risk of violence among the sickest. The only way to eliminate all that risk, that is to say, fulfilling human rights based on the definition of human rights by the Council of State, is to isolate all those who, in any conceivable situation, could pose a threat to violence. Is this what the Council of State actually believes, or is there any other reason why she believes that this strengthens a proposal that I think can clearly violate human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e552	I believe that human rights apply to everyone. This applies both to those who are sentenced to mandatory mental health protection, to those who are in psychiatry, and to society for others — each of them living in this country and in other countries. This applies to everyone. In some cases, there is a need to take action against individuals in order to protect the individual, the patient himself or the personnel, and to ensure safety in terms of escape, hostage-taking or attack from outside, as well as in terms of society at large. I believe that this proposal is appropriate. I believe that the law we have had, not well enough and to a large extent, has ensured the security of regional security departments. I think something has to be done about that, and that's what this is about. It's about the level of security in psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e559	I think I'm going to go to another angle in this case. You can read in the proposition: ‘The establishment of such a unit has not yet been decided and the Ministry will return to any need for operational and investment funds in the annual draft budget.’;» Similarly, the proposition also states that no decision has been taken as to whether such a unit should be located within or outside a prison. When it's just a few days ago we've been able to read in the media that such a device is already almost complete built on Ila, there's reason to ask some questions. The question then has to be: Has the Council given the Stortinget the right information, or is it the communication with the Minister of Justice that is bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e571	No, it is correct: When we sent the matter to Stortinget, no decision was taken on this. Then we made an assessment at the Regional Security Departments. At that time, an assessment and investigation were carried out as to whether safety was good enough and whether a unit could be established at one of the regional safety departments. You've come to realize that you can't do that in the first place. Then an application for establishment on Ila has been sent, but that application has not been completed, and of course you are also dependent on the Storting's handling of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e577	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e582	The only person on whom the health and care committee has one is subject to the first paragraph of Section 4 A-8. There has been an alternative proposal by the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. The essence of that proposal is that those to be moved up to the highest level of safety in mental health protection must be sentenced to mandatory mental health protection. What surprises me in that matter is how the Progress Party makes this go hand in hand with its criticism of the government in a number of other matters, where you repeatedly point out that the government does not take seriously the need for society's protection. I want to get a comment from the Progress Party on what they think about this issue. What you can get quickly is part of the people who are commuting a little bit between the criminal services and the psychiatry, where you are, for example. may have a situation in which a person is convicted of killing, it becomes an ordinary trial, the person goes to prison, gets a regular prison sentence, and then gets a psychosis and needs mental health care. A natural process for today is to end up at the highest level of safety in the field of health protection. As I understand the Progress Party, you think that this person should not be able to be placed at all at the highest level of security, and I wonder how it can be associated with that focus the Progress Party often later on having in terms of society's security, given what you know about the problems that have been encountered in regional security departments both in terms of escape and hostage-taking. So I want to challenge the Progress Party on one point. Then I also want to challenge the left on something. First of all, I think it sounds to the representative Skei Grande as if all people in mental health protection are either in regional mental health protection or on their way to the new level of safety. That's not the case. Most of them are at a much, much lower level and will not be close to being covered by the new legislation. But what I want to challenge the representative of Skei Grande is: What is she thinking is more stringent with the new security unit than what you see in high-risk prison – when you twice pointed out in your previous post that this is much, much more stringent than what you have in prison? What exactly do you think about then?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e591	The President must remember that all speeches are to be made via the President, and the President will make sure that the representative is familiar with the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e594	There were two essential issues that I was not given the opportunity to address in my main post, and that is what is very much related to the debate around the proposal that is now in place. The first is the discussion of criteria for being transferred to the new unit with a particularly high level of safety. Then I would like to ask you to also look at the strict criteria that have been put into the work of the proposition, which the Council of State was also involved in its contribution. These are patients with a particularly high risk of escape, hostage-taking, serious violent behaviour or attack against the patient himself, co-patients or personnel. As you write in the proposition, it's rare that the patient in itself is the reason why there is such a high risk as is described here. This means that, in most cases, a network must also be available outside which it can contribute. However, in cases related to the patient’s own situation, there must be concrete plans, including where one can, for example. has previously shown the ability to carry out these types of actions. This means that, in reality, the criteria for transfer will be similar to those relating to the criminal law — that one is convicted of mental health protection. However, it does not exclude other patients, and the representative of Breen was involved, especially patients who are transferred to mental care after being convicted and who are not sentenced to mental treatment. It is also worth highlighting something that does not come up so much today, but which has been a significant part of the discussion in the past, namely whether there should have been a separate court hearing relating to the transfer to the security level of the specific entity. It was the main point of discussion on this proposal from the right. But in the case of a breach of freedom which will be the subject of judicial review under the Arbitration Act. 36 or Penal Code cap. 39 b, we believe that in most cases it will be a question related to regional security departments. We therefore believe that the possibility of testing decisions in the Control Commission will be sufficient for the transfer to this higher level of safety. There is reason to say that part of the descriptions of this proposal made by the representative Skei Grande may be a cause of fear as to what this actually means, because the description becomes very general in relation to what is actually proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e605	I have to comment on the representative, Höie, who thinks we are creating fear. That's because we're scared. We're afraid of the consequences that this is actually going to have, and we believe that in what's in front of the representatives now, we have done a thorough job of meeting what we think is the challenge, but based on the basic principles of law. I fear that this violates the Norwegian Constitution, and I believe that it breaks with the EMK. The reason why I'm not quite sure if it violates the Constitution is that all the factors in the EMK are not included in the Constitution, as we wanted it to be done. But I don't think this is going to be done today – to say it like that. This is a breach of being around the very, very weakest. We're doing a tightening that doesn't follow the general principles of law. It is the weakest people who are likely to get sicker here, and who are not always able to explain why they have been abused. These may be sick people who cannot be controlled. Then I have to answer Breen. I'll give Breen one example. § 4 A-12, first sentence, states that everyone visiting someone in such a place should be checked. It's not like that if you're in prison. For example, if you're in prison, Your lawyer guaranteed to come in and visit you without being physically inspected, driven through a metal detector or exposed to other things. There are several such things in the law – today we feel so strongly that there are actually prisoners who are in possession of great crimes they have committed in full consciousness, who are not subject to such a regime as we are adopting today. At all, the word ‘shall’ is used in a number of places – both in sections 4A-12, 4A-10 and 4A-9, one chooses not to have an assessment as to whether it applies, but to use the word ‘shall’. It's a strong tightening also in relation to what's criminal custody, as Breen just talked about. To expose the sick to even more coercive means, not to make them legally controllable, not to have systems that protect us from abuse, not to do things that make all those who are exposed to the harshest means of pressure, not to have any legal certainty associated with those assessments, I think, is quite daunting. I think we're going to come back to this. When the fog starts to lie down after July 22, we start to realize that the principles we're going to adopt are actually going to apply to all people, not just a single case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e622	I asked for a three-minute post because the representative of Breen made some visits to the Progress Party's position strike on this matter at one point where we differ from the government. It is important to stress that the Progress Party has some scepticism about the provisions of the Constitution and the retroactive effect, I have stated that, but we have doubted to support the suspension. But when I hear the representative Breen attack the Progress Party, he speaks like a justice politician. He referred to justice policy in his first post, and he stressed it far on the way in his position in his second post. This, which we other people are talking about, and which we should be talking about, is health policy. We're talking about mentally ill people, and that's not justice policy. It may also seem that the representative of Breen has forgotten what the Progress Party is involved in the vote, and for which there is a majority, namely that we must have a tightening of regional security departments. It's actually in the setting, and it's been expressed by the Progress Party for many, many years. And yes, there are prisoners – just as those who are not prisoners – who become psychotic. There are probably both those who have been convicted of cheating on the treasure and those who have been convicted of killing, but there are also people who are not convicted for anything. We want mentally ill people to be treated in the ordinary treatment system. If there is a danger to the security of their own or others, then we have the regional security departments that the Progress Party – and now fortunately also the government – wants to tighten up; we want to make them even better. This is the answer. We want mentally ill people to be treated like mentally ill people and not have to zone in a cell next to mass murderers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e636	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e650	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e659	The main objectives of Norwegian petroleum policy are to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective. This is achieved through increased field extraction, the development of findings and the detection of undiscovered resources. In order to ensure continued value creation on the continental shelf from a multi-generation perspective, an active policy must be put in place to prevent production declines and to provide opportunities for making new findings. Over the last 40 years, the petroleum industry has contributed significantly to the financing and development of the Norwegian welfare state. The issue we are dealing with today concerns the plan for the development and operation of the Martin Linge field. It's about reserves that are estimated at about 6 million standard cubic meters of oil, 20.4 billion standard cubic meters of gas and 2.9 million standard cubic meters of condensate. In total, this is equivalent to approximately 189 million barrels of oil equivalent. The operator’s economic analysis shows that the Martin Linge field has an expected present value before tax of SEK 7.6 billion in 2011. The planned expansion solution is based on the demand for power in the operational phase to be met by power from land via cable and the maximum consumption is estimated to be around 40 MW. The planned connection point is Kolsnes, and the concession request has been submitted and processed by NVE separately. The power situation in the area at start-up will make it appropriate to attach conditions to such a concession, precisely in order to ensure that the power system in the region is taken into account. In this context, it is an overall committee which stresses the importance of this not being an obstacle to shore-side power supply. An impact assessment has been carried out for the Martin Linge field without any evidence to suggest that the project should not be carried out or that remedial action should be implemented in addition to those underlying the development plans. Based on the operator's calculations, estimates made by the Oil Directorate, and assessments made by the Petroleum Authority, the development of the Martin Linge field appears to be a socially viable and sufficiently robust project, which can be carried out within acceptable safety, work environment, the external environment and fisheries interests. In addition to tax receipts from production in the field, development and operation will contribute to employment nationally and regionally. The total annual works expected to be created during the deployment phase and the exploitation phase are 16 100 and 12 700, respectively, including consumption effects. It is an overall committee that recommends the approval of the Martin Linge field development and operation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e674	The rapporteur has explained well the Committee's views on this matter, and I do not have much to add. The Martin Linge field is located in the northern part of the North Sea, approximately. 150 km west of Kollsnes. The value of the Martin Linge field is great – a new evidence of the enormous opportunities that remain in Norwegian oil and gas activities. This is also a new evidence that this is an industry for the future, as was the title of the newly treated petroleum message. The proposal gives a good account of the environmental measures at the bottom when the Storting today gives a clear signal for the expansion of the field. This clearly shows that in this industry, and in Norwegian petroleum policy, we are able to have several important thoughts in our head at the same time. Here we are talking about combining business development and environmental action in a good way. The main objective of our petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective, as the rapporteur said. This is a good objective, which must be the aim of the coming time, and which is undoubtedly very important for jobs and well-being throughout the country. I am pleased that we can adopt two field developments today, and I am very optimistic about the opportunities offered by this industry throughout the country in the years to come. I look forward to several such openings in time to come. Not least I'm busy with the northern part of the country in this context. I am pleased that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, take a positive view of the decision that the field should have power from land in the operational phase. This is linked to the desire to avoid an increase in climate emissions from the Norwegian base. This is, of course, a question that needs to be considered for each project, but which must be at the heart of all such planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e689	There was a clear statement by the rapporteur, Per-Willy Amundsen, and by the representative, Bendiks Arnesen. There is, of course, a unanimous committee here, with one small exception. It is alarming to the extent that the party that now wants to appear as the new climate party, the Progress Party, reserves itself against electrification of installations on the base – yes, even where the builder sails up to use electricity from land, such as in the Martin Linge field, where the Progress Party reserves. Working for increased electrification on the base is an important element to cut the climate emissions on the base, and I am very pleased that this is a broad consensus, with the exception of the Progress Party. Electrification is demanding because it requires good coordination and order to get it done. In this case, the seaboard builds up to it. It is also an important element in the climate communication and in the comments from the majority to the Climate Communication that we need to increase electrification. But I notice that the Advance Party reserves itself against this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e696	The expansion of the Martin Linge field is, as I said, well and thoroughly done by the case-speaker, therefore only a few comments from the Center Party's side. The operator Total adds a build-up solution based on land-based power with a connection point on Kollnes. Electrification of a major part of the petroleum sector is an important part of the objective of reducing CO2 emissions from industry. In addition, it could contribute to a better pooling of energy resources. The possibilities for electrification will depend on costs, technological solutions, infrastructure and networks on a case-by-case basis, of course, in the sea, but also on the existence or establishment of robust infrastructure on land. Not least, it will depend on shore-side power supply, enough power and clean, renewable power. Only by the use and contribution of the petroleum industry to more renewable energy production is one of the sources of real climate benefit from this type of measure. Therefore, the government’s long-standing clear commitment to renewable energy is important. Through the green certificates, large amounts of new renewable energy are entering the Nordic market in time. Some of this should be used to reduce CO2 emissions from Norwegian base also. Finally, it is worth noting that the field has been named after Captain Martin Linge – known actor, but perhaps even more known as an opponent during the Second World War, as leader of Company Linge. Both the Lofoten radii in 1941 and the Måløi radii were leased by Linge. It was under Måløj-raidet on the 3rd of Christmas Day 1941 that Linge himself was shot and killed in battles in Måløy center. These raids contributed to the impression that the German occupation of Norway was facing a real danger of attack from the West, and so it helped to bind up large forces of the German supercommand that could have been used other places in the world. Thus, this effort had a real impact on the outcome of the war. This is a part of Norwegian resistance history that consumes attention. So it's okay to be able to mention this in this debate as well, since the oil field has got the name it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e711	This is a good thing and needs from the Christian People's Party just a brief comment. That's how, as the representative Sande was about, this field that we now have for treatment is named after the head of the Linge Company. What he does, among other things, is known for, is the battle he himself was killed in – Måløy-raidet. It was a needle stick. In that context, I want to use it as a transition to that case and the field we are dealing with today. So the Martin Linge field has to be electrified. As the Målø-raid in 1941 was of great importance to the war, I believe that the matter we are dealing with today will be of great importance to the further operation of our petroleum industry. Today we decide to electrify a new field. It is important for the present, but it is primarily important for the future. I think this expansion will have good ring-effects for the area around the field. As has been said earlier in the debate, it is important that we have the power to do so, that there is a clean force to get on the pedestal, but it is also important that we get networks, both to land and to water, and that is possible in this expansion. That is why it is an important field that we are considering today, with a good name in relation to what Martin Linge did for us, as a country, under his raid on Måløy, but also in relation to what this field will do for us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e720	This is a big day. Today the Stortinget treats two new independent extensions in the North Sea. The total is about 50 billion. kr in investments and new resources of about 370 million barrels of oil equivalent. It reminds us once again of the enormous values that lie in this business, and that the oil and gas age is near. I want to give honor to the committee for a good attitude. There is a coherent position that further underlines the stability and predictability of Norwegian oil and gas policy. Norwegian base and Norwegian oil and gas policy stand out very well. The activity in the petroleum sector gives us growth, well-being and economic freedom for the whole country. Everyone involved in this business has reason to feel proud. In order to disseminate a more accurate picture of the importance, value creation, long-termity and opportunities of this industry, the name policy has changed. This field has been named Martin Linge. It's a man remembered as an officer and opponent during World War II. This is the first new name of a field that Stortinget is currently dealing with. The Martin Linge field was detected in 1975. It is gratifying that there is now finally a profitable development solution for this field. The field is located in a well-explored part of the North Sea and near large producing fields, such as Oseberg and Troll. The development shows the importance of long-term industry, and that there are still opportunities in those areas of Norwegian soil where we have been active for a long time. It is essential that the industry also has the capacity to mature resources like this in order for us to be able to keep production levels up in the coming years. The size has previously decided that the force from land should be assessed in all new independent expansions and major conversions on the Norwegian base. That policy has recently been pursued through the notification of petroleum. Through the CO2 tax and allowances obligation, companies have good reasons to operate their fields using power from land. Such an energy solution shall be investigated in the work of all development plans. Such a solution should be compatible with the power situation on land, so that we do not end up with situations of regional imbalances. For the Martin Linge field, a solution has been chosen where the power demand will be covered by power from land. It shows that today's policy is working. The Martin Linge field will thus contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions from Norwegian cap compared to a gas turbine-based solution. In order to maintain production from Norwegian pedestal in the years ahead, we do several things at the same time. It looks for and builds up new findings. Several measures are being launched to increase extraction from existing fields. In addition, it is important to develop good development solutions from existing findings, where no commercial development solution has yet existed. The Martin Linge project is an example of the latter and illustrates that it works well in all areas. I am very pleased with the Committee's unanimous agreement on the government's proposal to extend and operate the Martin Linge field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e745	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e748	Of course, the Council of State is quite right in that there is an overall committee which, in the form of a comment, is behind the matter. I would like to stress that the consensus expressed by this House in relation to Norwegian oil and gas policy is important for predictability. On a small point, the committee cracks a little bit. It's about electrification. The Committee stresses the importance of not compromising on shore-based power supplies when operating. Can the Council of State give an assurance that you will not be in a situation where the power supply on land is put at risk on the day of production?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e755	This is a point that has been raised several times and in word changes in the Storting, after having had unfortunate experience of excessive point withdrawals on the power grid, without sufficient security with new transmission capacity for a new production, has created regional imbalances with related problems. It's incredibly important for me to avoid. We are also warned that we will look this up against the regional supply situation and, if necessary, demand to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e761	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e766	I really didn't need to make this a big political debate. It is essentially an overall committee which supports the position and most of the comments. But when there are some claims about electrification, I feel the need to take the word. I would like to refer to the State Council Ola Borten Moe who said in his post, quite correctly, that electrification in this case will reduce the climate emissions from Norwegian socket. The representative Sande is very concerned that this will have an effect on the climate. The last one, with all due respect, is not right. So whether you burn this on the platform to produce energy there or pass it on to a customer that burns off and generates energy there, the result will be exactly the same – it's exactly the same CO2 emissions. The only thing to avoid is getting it in the Norwegian climate accounts. The emissions are going to be the exact same. It is shifted from Norwegian climate accounting to another country's climate accounting, but globally no world things are achieved. It is then necessary to ask the question, at least to the extent that these are costly operations, of the rationale of this type of action. Then it's not that the Progress Party is basically against electrification. We're for electrification where it's economical, rational and sensible. But it also means that the builders have to bear the real costs of electrification. As it is today, electricity customers indirectly subsidise electrification in terms of the transmission of power in the grid. That's why it's important that we have clear dividing lines there. The party of progress is not in principle opposed to electrification in order to oppose electrification, but we say that it must be economic and rational, and the oil companies themselves must bear the real costs of power transmission. Making this a climate debate only seems strange – all the time you talk about climate change as a global problem. So it's not that national boundaries have any meaning in this context. Listening to some of the speeches today, especially from the Sande representative, almost seems as if national emissions are the target, not to reduce global emissions. We will probably come back to this in one matter later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e780	Introductoryly, I would also be clear that the concessions given to Martin Linge today are very positive and wanted by everyone, including the Advance Party. With the concession and the clear signal being given today, the Committee on Energy and the Environment points out that the planned expansion solution is based on the fact that the power demand for the operation phase is to be met by force via a land-based cable. The Martin Linge field will therefore set a new environmental standard in the North Sea. The field should be operational already in 2016 – 37 years after it was found. In the force value today, this is a very short time, and recently we were able to read in the media that Total has no guarantee that these two new powerlines to secure the power supply from Kollsnes are in place in time. It shows up to challenging processes on land, such as the concession for power supply, and if that's what we're all aware of, it's just that these processes take time – a very long time. The two powerlines needed to increase the power supply at Kolsnes are Mongstad-Kollsnes and Modalen-Mongstad. But as the Kollsnes plant accounts for one third of Norwegian gas exports, this will probably be resolved, it is claimed. But it's left to see. The Martin Linge project will use around 40 MW of power, but Total wants 65 MW because 8 MW will be lost in the transfer, and there may be a build-up of satellite fields associated with the Martin Linge project. According to Total, the electrification of the field will prevent emissions of 2 million tonnes of CO2 over the lifetime of the field. The Committee’s plurality, all except the members of the Progress Party, welcomes the decision that the field should have power from land in the operational phase, and the rationale is that there is an important contribution to avoiding an increase in climate emissions from Norway and Norway. The party of progress, as has been called by others, is not fundamentally opposed to the electrification of the base, but is concerned that we do not experience the same thing as a see in Middle Norway, when a build-up of the Worm Lange field. Lack of power generation and supply lines have led to record high power prices and have cost industry very expensive – and still threatens new start-ups. Industrial workplaces in the region are still under pressure because of unsolved power shortages, and increased line capacity is many years ahead. We don't have to take care of ourselves so that we get many of these black caves along our coast. It destroys the treasure that one has intended to live on for a long time after the oil and gas adventure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e800	I had initially not intended to take the floor on this matter, where a unanimous committee is behind the vote, but as the debate has evolved in terms of electrification, I felt the need to make some comments on behalf of the Right. We are in the comment where we give honor to the licensees because they have chosen electrification. We from the Right believe it is important to encourage the companies and show that we value the decision the licensees have taken here. I stress that this is a decision the licensees have made on a commercial basis, based on CO2 tax, on allowances, on the estimation of electricity prices, etc. It's a purely commercial decision. Nevertheless, I think that is the basis on which we, on the part of the Committee, give the licensees credit for the choice they have made. The expansion is important in order to maintain volume on the Norwegian base, as a cross-political collapse has said in connection with the petroleum notification that we are going to. Then this is an important piece in maintaining volume and making profitable expansions in the petroleum industry on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e812	The progress party says that they have no principle view of electrification, but nevertheless they cannot agree to give honor to a builder, as Siri A. Meling said, who has made a commercial decision to electrify. What can well be concluded is that the principles of the Progress Party are primarily about what costs the least money in every respect. That's rarely going to be good climate policy. It is important to state that burning gas on the gas turbines on the platform usually means using 20 pst. While on the continent you can use it up to 80 pst., so it's wrong to say that there's no better climate policy to electrify the socket, sail if the gas burns elsewhere. Then, of course, more international cooperation is needed, which is not now in place. Until then, we must actually be concerned about how we can cut our national emissions. I finally have a small correction in terms of reducing it. Now when we're talking about a new expansion, we're talking about reducing an increase. If we're really going to reduce in the North Sea, we need to electrify existing fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e821	I note that the representative Amundsen categorically states that the electrification of Norwegian socket does not reduce global emissions, only national emissions. These are as many errors as categorical to claim the opposite. The background is that it depends entirely on what is the alternative use, and the production of the gas, which the representative of Aegean was in. It is about the use of the energy that is being taken up, but it is also about the contribution to new renewable energy production and in the case of the production that comes in addition to, or as a substitute for, another type of fossil energy production. There are several things related to such an analysis, but it is quite wrong to categorically establish that electrification of the socket does not help to reduce global emissions. Rather, it can be done if the ratios are adjusted for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e826	I just want to say first that it has been interesting to get a clarification from the Council of State regarding the claims made. How else would we understand what came from the representative of Egeland about electrifying existing fields – and whether it is government policy? I think that's a little easy to clarify, at least don't have it hanging in the air whether it's government policy or not. As I say in this debate on electrification: in fact, you're burning a unit of gas – natural gas – in Norway or in Germany, it's going to be exactly the same CO2 emissions. It's not like the laws of nature change from where you burn that gas. It's a fact you have to relate to. Then you can construct substitution, what it replaces, and -- I kept saying -- other alternatives you drag into the system, but the fact is that if you burn off that gas on a Norwegian base or in Germany, the CO2 emissions are exactly the same. That's what I said in my post, but I see that here you go a little bit in the trench because this is kind of an important part of climate policy. The question that needs to be addressed is about the cost-benefit assessment of climate policy, because in many cases this would be very, very expensive — expensive — expansions. I mention the example of Snow White – the electrification of Snow White – which is estimated at 10 billion. Norwegian Krone. It's a pretty expensive electrification, to put it mildly, if you were to carry it out. I then question the ability to evaluate some projects against each other, when one initially believes that electrification is the only right thing. As I said, the Progress Party is not fundamentally opposed to it, but there must be a diet-benefit assessment – economically such – at the root of it. At least you have to be safe with regard to the power situation on land. It must not be the case that we have experienced in other cases, that it goes beyond security of supply and price formation, which means that consumers are the ones affected by electrification. Then we have to get rid of this principle of indirect subsidies on network rental, which current customers currently stand for, in terms of power transmission. In the end, I really want to boast of the government's name policy. I think it's good, I think it's great, that Norwegian historical people can be used to refer to important things that we're talking about, such as Norwegian fields on the base, which contribute to enormous income and wealth to this society. Then I think it is great that you can have references into Norwegian history.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e843	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e857	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e866	The matter we are dealing with now concerns plans for the development and operation of the Edvard Grieg field – also a great name, cf. previous case – formerly known as Luno. The rightholders are Lundin, Wintershall Norway and RWE Dea, where Lundin has half of the rights. The field was identified in 2007 and is planned to be developed with a bottom-solid device with wells, process facilities, auxiliary systems and residential quarters. An export solution for oil has been proposed via Grane Oil Pipe to Sture Terminal. The gas export solution will be via Sleipner or SAGE. The extractable reserves in the field are estimated to be 29.1 million standard cubic metres of oil equivalent. It equals 183 million barrels of oil equivalent. About 90 pst. of the extractable resources are oil, while the remainder is gas. It is planned to start production in the fourth quarter of 2015, and it is expected to produce over a period of 20 years. The operator's economic analysis says that the expansion has an expected present value before tax of 33.3 billion. 2012-krona. It will therefore make a significant contribution to the Norwegian community. Studies have found that there are significant co-ordination gains and cost savings in a coordinated development solution for the Edvard Grieg field and neighbouring Draupne. The rights holders of the two extraction permits have therefore entered into a coordinated development agreement, which facilitates the final processing and export of the production of a future Draupne device through the device in the Edvard Grieg field. A relatively large investment has already been made in the development of the Edvard Grieg field – before the Stortinget has taken its decision. Early in May, it was known that Lundin, as an operator, had entered into a contract with Kværner for the production of the deck for the platform. The contract value is assumed to be around 8 billion. kr. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has the possibility under the Petroleum Act to allow such early investments under special conditions. That's what's been done in this specific case. It is in isolation very happy to see that a mission of this size goes to a Norwegian supplier. At the same time, as rapporteur on this matter, I feel the need to stress that the handling by the Storting of plans for development and operation is sovereign. Early investments are made entirely at the risk of the builders themselves. It is important to identify – also in view of the treatment of future development plans. When large investments are initially to be expected after the Storting has taken its decision, it is because no binding and undue economic pressure should be placed on the Stortinge in terms of its ability to deal with matters on a free basis. It is important for me to stress that this is a principle that must not be challenged over time. So I'm not going to make any attempt to pull back from the previous case to the general debate on electrification, but just to state that the current policy is that force from land should be explored in connection with all the new fields. In the case of the Edvard Grieg field, the operator has found that the price per tonne of CO2 reduction for power from land is around SEK 700 if coordinated with the Draupne and Dagny. The cost of the Edvard Grieg field alone is intended to exceed NOK 1500. The joker who can seriously reduce costs, if you go for a coordinated solution in the area, is, of course, the Johan Sverdrup field. Now all operators at the southern part of the Utzira Height are required to determine an overall solution for power from land, which is expected to be completed by the end of the year. The plan for the expansion and operation of the Edvard Grieg field makes it clear that if there is an overall solution for power from land at the southern Utsira height, the Edvard Grieg field shall be associated with such a solution if the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not decide otherwise. In that case, the Edvard Grieg field shall cover its legitimate share of the investment and operating costs of the solution. It is therefore pointed out by a Joint Committee that the Edvard Grieg Facility must also be built in such a way that it is prepared for reception so that it can receive power from land if it becomes an appropriate solution. In the context of the climate notification, which is dealt with in this room later today, Stortinget sets an expressed target for electrification of the southern part of the Utzira Height. With these comments, it is a pleasure to say that there is an overall committee that recommends that the plan for the development and operation of the Edvard Grieg field be approved by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e895	It is a unanimous committee that supports the position on the development and operation of the Edvard Grieg field. I will nevertheless link a few reflections to the matter. Firstly, the choice of Lundin as an operator is positive and exciting. Lundin is a relatively new player on the Norwegian pedestal. We from the Right are concerned with the diversity of the socket and dynamics of the competitive situation. It is therefore very positive that Lundin is the operator of this field. Secondly, I am happy to register, among others: by reading today's edition of Stavanger Aftenblad, that the platform in the Edvard Grieg field is the first in a long time where the Norwegian content is so large. It seems that the operator has had a very conscious relationship with the benefits of acting locally also on the yard side. This was the case rapporteur inside. This is a global market, but we must be allowed to rejoice that the actors choose Norwegian solutions in competition with others. The third moment I want to mention is the question of power from land. Now it may almost seem as if we have a small foreplay to the climate debate – the climate report will be dealt with later today. The right is concerned that we supply the installations with power from land, where this is economically sound. It's this cross-political line The Greatness has settled on. But the issue of the economy also depends on how many devices are assessed together. How to look at coordination, time aspects, etc. is important in these economic considerations. Here it is important that the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Directorate of Oil are clear in their orders in terms of what is considered collectively. I record that the operator has found out that the price of power from land, coordinated with Draupne and Dagny, will be approx. 700 kroner, and that the cost of the Edvard Grieg field alone is calculated at over 1500 kroner, which was also covered by the rapporteur. If there is an overall solution for power from land at the southern Utsira height, the Edvard Grieg field shall be associated with such a solution, unless the Ministry of Oil and Energy decides otherwise. Perhaps the Council of State in its statement can elaborate a little on what lies in this that the Ministry of Oil and Energy can decide otherwise, and what assessments will be left behind in the event? These leaders mean that gas turbines are now being installed in the Edvard Grieg field, but at the same time they are being facilitated for electricity from land. We must then assume that the heat demand can be met by other means than exhaust gas from the gas turbines. I hope the Council of State can also confirm this in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e910	First of all, I want to join in the glory of the government's name policy. In this case it was a very musical name choice. The representative, Mr. Hemdal, pointed out in the previous case that the Martin Linge field could become a historical extension in the field of electrification, and that this is the beginning of our electrification by new fields and conversions. It was relatively simple in that case, where it was commercially profitable for the builder. Here it's more demanding, because a unilateral electrification of the Edvard Grieg field will be very expensive. It just points to the demandingness of electrification; that it requires good coordination in the right order to get things done. It is – as pointed out in a note on the climate communication – a special responsibility for the authorities to get and facilitate that order. But as others have said here, if you electrify the height of Utsira, where the Edvard Grieg field is included, it will be within an acceptable economic framework, and it will be an important contribution to ensuring that the climate emissions of the petroleum industry do not increase. The Committee therefore points out that the Edvard Grieg device should be organised to receive power from land and that it is a prerequisite that the Edvard Grieg field should be included and pay its share of the investment and operating costs of electrification. It is important to point out that the investment of the builder in the gas turbine must be at the risk and cost of the builder and not contribute to weakening the profitability calculations for electrification of the southern part of the Utsira height when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e919	In the case of the extension of the Edvard Grieg field, the technical information and speech were well done by the case-speaker. The case spokesperson also addressed the energy supply of the field, both the plans ahead and the work that is going on. For the centre party, it is important to draw up and underline the objective of the government expressed for electrification at the height of the outer space. The goal is more than one expressed goal, but that is when the Ministry has asked the legal entities of this part of the High State to re- study the potential and consequences of a co-ordinated force from land-solution for this area. The decision we are making today helps to facilitate such a solution. We also record that Statoil, which is in charge of this work, has plans to have the basis for investment decisions ready during 2012. From the operator’s side, it is foreseen that the field shall have a leading Stavanger operational organisation and operational support associated with the Oslo headquarters. Geographical proximity between the operational organisation and the specific activity is good, both in terms of HMS and environmental considerations. It also helps to create ringing effects on land in the areas where one has petroleum activity, which is a clear objective of Norwegian petroleum policy. It's also nice, seen with the Center Party's eyes, that Norwegian business life is heavier within the project than it might have been for a period of time. It is important for employment, but also for the development of skills and growth in Norwegian industry as a result of the petroleum activity, all of which should rejoice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e928	The Edvard Grieg field represents in many ways a trend shift in Norwegian petroleum activity. This large finding on the Norwegian side has changed the attitude that Norwegian petroleum activity was a sunset industry, to great optimism before the industry. This is very joyful and means an infinite amount for the Norwegian maritime industry, for its revenues and for its investments and threatens the long term ahead of the petroleum industry. Since the left-hand side of Norwegian policy, with SV at the head, has repeated the mantra that oil is near its end, this shows that there is every reason to take both engineering training in the field and maritime education – at the whole stake in a future in the petroleum sector. This is the Progress Party very pleased, and after 2013, hopefully also a government shift will ensure that the Lofoten and the northern parts of our country participate in the evolution of the petroleum industry, to the delight of both community and region. This is the Progress Party for the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e935	Today's debate should well be embedded in a tapestry of Edvard Grieg's 'Lyric Pieces', 'Morning' or 'In the Dovregubb's Hall'. It had set a good mood for this debate, but I don't know if it would fit. There are shared opinions about the Minister of Oil and Energy's new name policy for field development on the pedestal. Personally, I guess there are other things I would have done with oil policy than rename, but at least that gives us the opportunity for some good associations. The question is, would Edvard Grieg have been honoured by this call? I think it's hard to know, because I don't know exactly what Edvard Grieg meant about climate and environmental issues, but I'm kind of in doubt whether he would be satisfied with this PUD that we're discussing today. As I remember my music history from high school, Edvard Grieg was busy writing for his time, or his present, and also for the future. Then that's exactly what we have to check out this PUD against: the date, the present and the future. Norway’s oil and gas industry accounts for a quarter of Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions. We have previously decided that Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 30 pst. by 2020. That's familiar numbers for us. Two thirds of the emissions we're going to do at home – yes, we know this. We're going to debate it further beyond the day. The best way to achieve this is to operate the installations in the sea with power from land instead of installing gaseous pollutants on the platforms. The Edvard Grieg field we are dealing with today is located in the southern part of the Utzira height. In this area, more major findings need to be developed in the near future, including: the large Sverdrup field found last year, and Draupne, near Edvard Grieg. The Government states in the Climate Action Communication that it aims to supply the southern part of the Utzira Height with power from land. The government will take a final decision on this, among other things. in the light of the ongoing analyses by the rightholders. Electrification of the height of Outsira will only be profitable if all fields are included. This is where the problem lies. This is where I think Edvard Grieg would have trouble. He was busy with the date, and he was busy with the future. In fact, the government in this case allows the operator of the Edvard Grieg field to expand the field with two gas turbines, which will otherwise also supply the Draupne field with power. The authorisation we grant today is given only months before the basis for the investment decision for a coordinated power-from-country solution for the entire southern part of the Utzira Height is to be provided. We are critical to facilitating so much investment in gas-powered turbines at the Utsira Height in parallel with working on a common solution for power from land. It's not just us who's worried. In its opinions to this PUD, the Oil Directorate pointed out that investment in field turbines and generators will result in a coordinated power-from-country solution for the area becoming more expensive and less cost-effective. In order to achieve profitability for a common force-from-country solution, the costs have to be shared across all fields, including Edvard Grieg and Draupne. That is why we have written in our remarks that Lundin must bear these investments himself. It is a bit alarming that the representative from SV, Lars Egeland, said in his post that it is obvious that the operator must be in charge and pay the bills even when he cannot be on it in the comments that the undersigned has on this matter. These investments should not be included in the calculation basis for the entire southern Utsira height, because with such an estimate we know the answer to the next investigation we are waiting for. And that's not in line with the climate we're going to adopt later today, it's not in line with the government's wishes, and I don't think it's in line with Edvard Grieg's solution to write for the date and write for the future. The future of our petroleum activity is power from land.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e958	In 1965, extraction authorization No. 001 assigned on Norwegian base first round. Since then, large parts of the area of this extraction permit have been returned and allocated several times. The fact that the Edvard Grieg field, which we are dealing with here in Stortinget today, forms part of the first extraction permit granted on a Norwegian base, also says something about what opportunities still exist. The expansion of the Edvard Grieg field is in many ways the starting point for the development of a new, exciting area on the southern part of the Utsira Height. It has therefore been particularly important to put in place a solution that makes sense from an area perspective. Three aspects in particular: field coordination, export solutions and power solutions. This is a matter on which, through the administration process, we have given an extra focus. The development solution for Edvard Grieg facilitates the realisation of coordination gains with neighbouring Draupne. The authorities have pointed out to the rightholders of the two extraction permits that this means that the significant identified potential for cost savings and coordination gains is actually realised. The agreements currently in place between rightholders facilitate this. Several alternatives exist for transport solutions of oil and gas from the field. When the size of Johan Sverdrup was adjusted in the autumn of 2011, this required a new analysis of optimal export solutions based on the southern part of the Utsira height. Gassco is now studying alternative export solutions for oil and gas from an area perspective. I believe it is important to have alternative export solutions illuminated for the entire southern part of the Utsira height. Final export solutions for oil and gas with plant and operating plan will be submitted for processing for the autumn. The Edvard Grieg device is designed to take power from land if there is a current solution in the future. Currently, the possibilities and consequences of a coordinated power-from-country solution are being studied. The work is managed by Statoil and all interested parties with extractive permits are involved. A possible solution requires a significant power take-off from countries — demanding commercial solutions — and therefore needs to be thoroughly investigated. The companies plan to establish a basis for investment decisions by the end of 2012. Never before – it is important to stress – is field development as specific conditions linked to force from countries that are being developed. Conditions are set to ensure that the rights holders in the Edvard Grieg field actively contribute to the investigation and pay their proportionate share of the costs of the investigation. In addition, if the Ministry finds that a coordinated power-from-country solution for the area is to be implemented, then the Edvard Grieg field shall also be associated with such a solution unless the department decides otherwise. In that case, the rights holders of the Edvard Grieg field shall cover their proportionate share of the investment and operating costs of the solution. These conditions provide the necessary flexibility for the design of an optimally coordinated force from land solution for the southern part of the Utzira Height. It means in clear order that there will be a coordinated solution forcefully from countries of the Utsira Height, this field will be part of that solution. The development we are dealing with today brings great tasks to the supplier industry at home and outside. As Siri A. Meling pointed out at the outset, it is gratifying to note the large contracts placed in Norway, which will help to attract the Norwegian supplier industry further and give significant activity to many Norwegian companies. The supplier industry is experiencing high capacity utilisation and there is considerable international competition for their services. In order to ensure optimum project progress and economics, the award of contracts at an optimal time is a central element of the industry. To contribute to this, I have therefore allowed the award of contracts before the plan of operation and expansion is finally approved, as the Petroleum Act opens. I want to remind you that this is a great day. We're opening a new province in the middle of the North Sea. I am pleased that the Committee has endorsed the government's proposal to extend and operate the Edvard Grieg field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e979	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e982	The council said in its statement that there had never been such clear conditions for electrification as were associated with the Edvard Grieg expansion. But I have to ask the Council of State once again: as long as one takes a reservation that the Ministry of Oil and Energy can decide otherwise, what factors are there that make them decide anything other than that the Edvard Grieg field should be electrified? That's the one question. The other very specific question is whether the heat demand can be met by means other than exhaust gas from the gas turbines if one selects electrification.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e988	I think it's important to read what it says, based on what is the starting point, that it becomes a coordinated power-from-country solution, this field should be part of that solution and pay its share, not only of the planning costs, but of course also of the development and operating costs associated with such an infrastructure. Then the department can decide something else. In this case, it requires an active action from the Ministry to determine something other than the starting point. The starting point is time-ready, further underlined by Stortingen's discussion and the Committee's comments here today. For my part, I cannot now overlook good reasons why we should exempt the Edvard Grieg field from a power-from-country solution if there were to be a coordinated solution with it from land. But there's an assessment that the ministry will have the opportunity to make at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e995	The reason I ask these questions is the fear that the table can catch, and the cost of a solution chosen captures the decision in advance. So I want to ask the Council of State again whether he also assumes that the heat demand in the Edvard Grieg field can be met in a different way than through the exhaust gas from the gas turbines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1000	The starting point for the choice of force from countries for the whole Utsira formation is explained in the Stortinget on several occasions, at least it has been debated in this Chamber on several occasions. The size has, by means of the petroleum notification at the latest, laid down the general framework conditions. Here, in my opinion, it is well suited for us to do it, which I have also expressed publicly. It is our clear goal that we should get to this. However, it needs to be worked through, investigated, to see how we can put in place the good, concrete solutions to get there. In the case of any heat demand at the Edvard Grieg field, and whether it can be covered in other ways than using exhaust gas from the power turbines, I believe it is implicit in the PUD treatment, simply because if the power turbines no longer operate, the heat demand has to be met by other means.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1007	The debates on the Martin Linge field and on the electrification of the Edvard Grieg field are like music in my ears, to keep me to the thermology. What the Council of State explains in its statement is right, it's accurate. But at the same time, the council says that there will be an overall plan with power from land, the Edvard Grieg field will be electrified, there should be no doubt about it. But what's the question here, the challenging one, is whether it's recommended that there be electrification with power from land in this area. In its opinion, the Oil Directorate pointed out that investments in turbine and generators in the field we are dealing with today will result in a coordinated power-from-country solution for the area becoming more expensive and less cost-effective. How does the Council of State view this opinion in relation to the work to be done in an overall plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1014	Once again, I would like to stress that I feel that there is an overall committee, a mass that stands behind what is the ambition of the Utsira Height, namely that we are going to be able to put in place a proper and good power-from-country solution. It also makes demands and signals here today that are clearer than any licence any operator has ever received in the past, related to the power-from-country solution. So what the Storting is doing today is offensive, not defensive, which you can get the impression of when you listen to the representative Hemdal. I think this is well in line with the ambitions of Edvard Grieg for the Norwegian community. Nor can we draw the conclusions in advance. There are important things that need to be investigated; there is a significant need for power. We need a cut-off for this without destroying land power supply, regional imbalances, and we need to have a cost picture that is socially profitable – the totality should be good. When this decision is taken, the generators are going to be depreciated, then there is a "sunk cost" for society on the part of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1021	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1024	Some words from me about the question of electrification. Although there has been a debate about this now, we may see it in connection with the Martin Linge field. I believe that both the Martin Linge and Edvard Grieg expansions show that this government is taking offensive steps towards electrification, at least on new expansions, and that one follows clearly and clearly what the Stortinge said, that power from land should be assessed by all new independent expansions and major conversions on the Norwegian base. As the Council of State pointed out, never before have there been as clear conditions attached to force from countries as those that were now doing in the context of the expansion of this field. The Martin Linge field shall be supplied with power from land. Both the proposition and what has been said here show that a co-ordinated solution between all the actors in this part of the height of the radiation can open up to the realization of force from land. Here is the Johan Sverdrup field, which was also the case spokesperson in. I see that there are arguments both for and against electrification, but if Norway is only going to increase CO2 emissions, we have to get rid of the oil sector, at least the new expansions, in order to reduce national CO2 emissions. I'll assume that. The other, such as Erling Sande was also in his post, that there will be a good use of future renewable energy. Green certificates will hopefully produce an excess, some tracks actually 40 TWh. If we're going to realize the expansion, the builder needs to have some certainty that it's a market for the new power. That market can obviously be a power-intensive industry, it could be exports to other countries, but I believe that offshore business must be part of that market. To realize this, one has to see that there is socio-economic benefit and value in it. At the same time, I understand what the representative, Mr. Hemdal, was in, that there must also be a business-economic profitability in it, and it can quickly get worse when a person calculates the investment of turbines, which one should do at first. But as the Council of State stresses, when one comes so far that one can realize power from land, it will be written down and thus perhaps a corporate economic profitability in it. Other barriers to success are clearly both power generation and supply, and there must be clear signals from the actors about what might be the future in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1047	I would like to return to the representative Oskar J. Grimstad's posts. It turns out that the Progress Party's attempt to appear as the climate party was a relatively short career. We have now recorded through the debate that the Progress Party, in principle, considers electrification to be immaterial. Then there's an excited Grimstad who declares that the future is oil, he's excited about all the new findings and makes a visit to SV on that occasion. My view is that there is more oil in the world than the climate tolerates that we exploit. That's the situation. But for Grimstad, it's like this: pump up all the oil, we're happy with all the new findings, it gives us an opportunity to let ourselves go, while perhaps the rest of the world is turning into a future in a renewable society. Then he ends by guaranteeing that if there is a change of government, no petroleum-free areas will be left along the Norwegian coast, no matter what value they may have for fishing, animal life and plant life. Then the largest cod stock in the world will be threatened in Lofoten. I fear that Grimstad may be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1056	The SV representative here tries to create an impression that he has to fight to establish when it comes to the Progress Party and climate policy. What we know is important when it comes to energy and petroleum, is that it is one of the most important forms of energy that exist. In order to solve the poverty problem, which I thought maybe SV was busy too, energy must also be distributed among the poor on earth. In this context, Norwegian petroleum policy is immeasurably important, simply in order for one to have food on the table among the world's poor. This is the reality, but it seems that SV is not as busy of these as it is at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1063	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1077	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1086	In the future, climate change forecasts suggest that weather conditions in Norway will become wetter and warmer, and that the incidence of extreme weather in different variants is likely to increase. This has consequences in terms of the danger of flooding and migration in Norway, how we will live with this risk picture, and how we will meet this challenge in the future. The announcement of floods and migrations that we now have to deal with is therefore a daily and important matter with significance for both small communities and larger cities. State hazard monitoring has revealed that more than 150 000 people live in areas exposed to flooding or migration in Norway. In addition, there are a number of schools, hospitals, kindergartens, commercial buildings and the type of facilities. The attitude of the Energy and Environment Committee to the Stortinget shows that there is a broad consensus on the understanding of the danger potential for floods and the future and the organisation of responsibilities and work in the field of flood and pace problems. We have a lot of beautiful and exciting nature with high mountains and deep valleys, waterfalls, rivers and fjords. In Norway, we live pretty close to nature, and we are happy to use it — both by exploiting the resource base in the context of nutrition and for pleasure, recreation and experience. The message states that it is not possible to secure 100 pst. against any natural disaster. With Norwegian terrain and ground conditions, it is not realistic to avoid completely building in flood or sloping terrain, nor is it physically feasible or economically viable. However, we have to work within some main axes. Firstly, it is important to manage land use through good land planning. In this area, it is essential that there are clear responsibilities between the different levels of government: state, county and municipalities, and of course builders and private actors, and that land planning is based on knowledge. The notification indicates that the area still unexplained in terms of responsibility is who is responsible for the damage to existing buildings and the Committee agrees that a clean-up on this issue is necessary. The government announces such a review in the message. I understand that, for example. The municipality of Bergen had some challenges after the landslide at the Hatlestad terrace, where the municipality was almost sent from the department to the department, and where there were uncertainties about responsibilities. Of course, this is demanding for a municipality to deal with. In the wake of this incident, the municipality of Bergen carried out its own ROS analysis, a risk and vulnerability analysis, of the entire municipality. This one was expensive, but the municipality cost it itself. From the Right, we believe that the State needs to take greater national responsibility for monitoring, focus on knowledge development and research and provide training courses that provide relevant competences in these disciplines. People should be able to feel confident that areas such as spent for residential purposes shall be relatively safe in view of the danger of flooding and slippage. In order to provide maximum knowledge base, monitoring and information by private actors are also intended to be made available to both the public and the authorities. The initial aim is to establish voluntary agreements to make this type of information available to the Community. For the right, it is important that a good dialogue be established with these various private actors. Prevention is always better than repairing damage afterwards – it also has something to do with people’s sense of security and quality of life. Of course, parents who send their children by school bus every day in rugged areas feel insecure. Cost/benefit assessments are used as a basis for action. It is important because the challenges in the future are major, and the issue of where and what priority should be given to action is important. The sum of money we want and should make available for this type of action will always be limited, and good socio-economic analysis of food value is important. The right considers that we need a proper monitoring of vulnerable areas in the country with an associated strategy for meeting this situation. We believe that the state must pledge itself to take greater responsibility because the challenges are going to increase, and it is a good social economy in preventive activity. Within today's system, the municipalities have 20 pst. It is right that it should be a marginal, but we believe that this should be flexible as regards the challenges to small-budget municipalities. On behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, I address the proposals that we have promoted in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1112	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1115	The rapporteur has now prepared this in a good way. I would like to thank the Committee for the work it has done. The challenges of floods and migration will increase as a result of climate change. More rainfall and more intense rainfalls increase the risk of slipping, and not least the danger of a race that has not been reckoned with. A complete message has not been provided in this area since St. gemeld. 42 from 1996 to 1997. This Communication deals primarily with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, but the responsibilities of other departments are addressed where there are common challenges. It is important that a focus is on shaping an active and knowledge-based policy in this area, so that Norway is even more prepared to meet the challenges of the future without losing life and health. Strengthening land use through land-use planning is important to prevent an increase in damage potential as a result of new development and to address increased challenges arising from climate change. Good arrangement in advance is better than repairs in retrospect. I think we all agree on that. However, we will emphasise the need for increased knowledge, increased prevention and, in particular, good alert procedures and contingency plans in order to have an acceptable level of risk associated with these types of events. Security requirements need to be balanced against the continued possibility of societal development in parts of the country that are demanding, inter alia, in terms of security. difficult ground conditions. It's shown a lot of things in that context. This message sent out the course further. There is a lot that can be done, and there are many actors who have to take their share of responsibility: the state, the county councils and the municipalities – and not least the individual. It's important in such a context. I would also like to point out that fortunately, very few people have died as a direct result of floods, but floods can in return lead to great material destruction and would like to have consequences for larger geographical areas. The survey since 1900 shows about 30,000 events, and by 500 of these events, 1,100 lives have been lost. There's 1 100 people's lives too much. It is important that we take prevention seriously, so that we avoid the loss of human life by not raging. I think the government – and we – is doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1134	An important purpose of the message is to identify the risks of flooding and scrambling for humans, the environment and material values in Norway, and how these challenges should be addressed by different measures and the clarification of responsibilities. The flood and gliding notification covers significant land area and liabilities of around 150,000 people living in racial, natural and fragrant areas. Detailed monitoring of hazardous areas is one of the measures aimed at improving the capacity of society to live with this risk as a race, affluence and other forms of living in a built-up area. And there are many different dangers associated with unstable mountain pages, mercury that can rage out, and last, but not least stringed – to name some. In More and Romesdal, we have established three monitoring projects: the Geirangerfjord, Heggura in Tafjord and the Man in the Valley of Rome. All of these projects concern large mountain pages that are moving, each representing a major danger to life and health. In one of the country's most visited tourist areas, at the Geirangerfjord in More and Romesdal, a scientist works to secure himself against a possible disaster. This is done through the establishment of a monitoring centre that continuously monitors the scrambled areas. In this way, a learnt can predict when the race comes, and prevent as much as possible. That there will be large values lost when the race goes is known, but human life will be saved through an established warning system, which will provide for everyone to be evacuated when needed. It is also known that there is a shortage of mercury in central Norway and in the Austland, where large areas have been exposed, and many lives have been lost. Annually, we also receive flood warning in different parts of our country, and even though very few people have died as a direct result of flooding, the flood has led to great material destruction. This is also the case with a string of loopholes, but due to years of events, it is a fact that you are well aware of what is needed for prevention. All of these examples in the outsourced area demonstrate the need for a holistic and methodological approach to the assessment of the acceptable risks and costs of risk mitigation measures. The Progress Party will point out that clear responsibilities and the greatest possible degree of coordination are very important, so as to avoid any confusion of responsibility to the detriment of both individuals and society. Among other things, we see: ambiguities relate to whoever is responsible for securing the existing settlement, and we look forward to the government clarifying this responsibility more closely, as notified in the message. Here you can expect municipalities to play an active role in the future. Once the damage has been done and the need for cleaning and repair has been clarified, an increasingly frequent case in which municipalities become disproportionately hard can be experienced, with the consequence that it may be very demanding for local authorities to carry out the necessary cleaning and repair tasks. The party of progress believes it is natural that the state assumes a greater financial responsibility in such cases. It is therefore appropriate to take a closer look at the design of today’s legislation on compensation for municipalities following flooding, race and natural damage. So I'm going to register that one in the media is saying that many people are excited about what the possibilities for action against flooding and slipping are. I can only support the announcement that it's not a message, but the budgets ahead that determine the security and security of people and communities living with these threats around them in their everyday lives. Prevention costs, and where no action can be taken, I refer you to a joint committee that underlines the importance of effective monitoring and alerting of floods and escapes. History shows us that nature can be ludicrous, but it also tells us the value of good governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1170	As has been said on the part of both the Right and the Labour Party, this is a matter that is linked to another important issue that the Stortinget is dealing with today, namely the climate message, because increasing floods and migration is a consequence of climate change. If we cannot globally reduce greenhouse gas emissions and stop anthropogenic climate change, we will have to expect a further increase in floods, gliding and storm floods. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is therefore important and is probably cheaper than investing in climate adaptation. But now we have to do both; we also have to make better sure of floods and escapes. The number of floods and events is greater than we get the impression of through the media that covers spectacular events – while smaller events can be dramatic enough for those involved. Securing us against floods and strides is primarily about securing us against the loss of human life and the loss of property and values, but it is also about the uncertainty associated with floods and hazards, which can lead to negative health effects with anxiety and insecurity. In addition, our society has become increasingly vulnerable in view of the loss of power, mobile phone and landline coverage, and not least the disruption of rail and road traffic. State hazard monitoring has revealed that 150 000 people in Norway live in areas that are exposed to floods or escapes, but many more can be affected by floods and escapes. It is the NVE that is the national step authority with operational responsibility. The notification warns that the NVE and other State actors will jointly develop a strategy for cooperation and coordination on floods and migrations when an accident has occurred or threatens. It is equally important, as many have said, to prevent accidents. It is about the fact that natural hazards to a much greater extent than they are now being taken into account in land planning and construction processes. The government also warns of a clarification of the legal liability with regard to ensuring existing settlements, which can be very expensive both for the country and for local authorities. But there is a clarification that is needed. It is also announced that the Ministry of Environmental Protection will look into the impact of future climate change in terms of migration, floods and sea level rises. It is important that municipalities have clear guidelines for their planning. This will come in a separate biggest message about climate adaptation, which we look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1187	Although not all parties in this room are some of the causes of climate change, there is no doubt that more frequent weather changes include: increasing precipitation and temperature fluctuations will increase the risk of slipping and a change in the flow patterns. This is something we have to live with, just as the message says, "How to live with the dangers". But then we have to make this as safe as possible for those who live in and travel by deferred areas. Linked to the identification of danger zones, the Centre Party sees what is particularly important to be able to use the local knowledge existing in the municipalities of these different geographical areas. This knowledge, coupled with knowledge of geology and meteorology, could provide the best possible basis for developing hazard maps. The first danger maps of unsafe areas that were presented some years ago were more diabolically designed and resulted in some municipalities apparently losing all the space they had available, due to the introduction of zones where there was a risk of race and flooding. However, local knowledge showed that the hazards were partly excessive and that the amount of the land could still be used. There is a need for more accurate surveys at municipal level. Nevertheless, a lot of land is unsafe, and many municipalities have a large part of their area in such danger zones. It is therefore important to stress that measures can also be taken within these zones, if one has taken the necessary protective measures at that place. I would like to draw attention to the need for increased knowledge, increased prevention, good warning procedures and contingency plans in order to be well equipped in a crisis situation. At the same time, it is important that the requirement of security does not unilaterally prevent social development that is natural in those parts of the country with demanding topography or difficult ground conditions. There is reason to stress the important social flood suppression potential of regulated watercourses and magazines in relation to flood situations. It is particularly important that the regulators have sufficient competence and tools to handle the water content even in a bulky situation. The different regulators' responsibilities are in this way invaluable, connected with local knowledge as one has, because one is often located close to the power plant and close to the watercourse. The centre part will also point to the fact that forest planting, in addition to being a good climate action, could be with and prevent the release of slips into deferred areas. This paper warns that the NVE, in cooperation with other state actors, will develop a national strategy for cooperation and coordination in relation to flooding and migration. It will be important to have clear responsibilities between the different levels of government, state and municipality and between builders and individuals. The message assumes that municipalities have an active role in preventing damage, including for existing busses. It is important that local authorities are given the necessary assistance to do this important task. In this way, it is important that the material in private ownership, in the form of basic studies and hazard assessments, is made available. Here I would like to draw attention to the importance of having good and constructive cooperation with private operators. The security measures linked to flooding and slippage will be the most cost-intensive measures for the individual or for the municipality. In this way, it is of great importance that the State, in the form of the NVE, assists in this work. The requirement for local co-financing is important on the basis of an assessment that a person has a principle of participation in the financing of those benefiting from the action. At the same time, local co-financing will contribute to stressing the owner’s responsibility for maintaining own ownership and avoiding the development and destruction of hazardous areas. On the other hand, there may be considerable costs associated with extreme weather, and in some cases the impact will be very large. It is also important to include in the further assessment. Increasing the focus on flooding and walking and the challenges they bring will be important in the future. From the Center Party's side, we refer to the warning of the legal work in this area, and we're looking forward to this. The work on preventing flooding and walking is also about creating security for all those who daily have to face these dangers, whether they are running on racially dangerous roads, or they live in displaced areas around the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1208	Climate change is likely to cause a warmer and wetter climate in Norway. We will increasingly experience so-called extreme weather situations. These changes update work on preventing and living with the dangers of floods and gliding. It is therefore important to have an active and knowledge-based policy for this, so that Norway is prepared to meet the challenges of the future without losing life and health. One of the main objectives of today’s debate is to make visible the risks of flooding and migration to people, the environment and material values in Norway, and how to prevent and limit the risks of different measures and to clarify the allocation of responsibilities. Problems with floods and sprawl are most often linked to the use of areas that are flooded or slumped by nature for human activity. Norwegian terrain and ground conditions make it unrealistic to avoid completely building in flood or sloping terrain. Nor is it physically feasible or economically viable. Fortunately, few people have died as a direct result of floods in Norway. In return, floods can lead to major material destruction and may have consequences for a larger geographical area. The mapping of steps that we've had since the 1900s shows about 30,000 events. At 500 of these events, there's a record of life loss. In addition to the physical hazards of floods and escapes, it is important to stress that uncertainty about floods and hazards may have other adverse health effects, such as anxiety and insecurity. State hazard monitoring has revealed that around 150 000 people live in areas exposed to flooding or migration in Norway. In addition, there are a number of schools, hospitals, kindergartens and commercial buildings. History has shown that it is important to have clear responsibilities between different authorities such as state, state and municipality. According to the Planning and Building Act, municipalities are responsible for assessing natural hazards and taking into account spatial planning and handling. Municipalities today do not have a clear legal obligation to ensure existing settlements. The responsibility for existing settlements is unclear today, and the Christian People's Party is therefore looking forward to the government clarifying this responsibility, as announced in the notice. The notification assumes that municipalities have an active role in preventing damage also to existing buildings. The identification of danger zones is of great importance to society, but it is resource-intensive. The Christian People’s Party therefore agrees that it is reasonable for the State to assist the municipalities in this work. Christian People's Party is also pleased that the government is now planning a big deal on climate adaptation as a follow-up of NOU 2010: 10 Adaptation to a climate change. I hope this message comes quickly. The framework for the NVE’s assistance scheme for security measures is presented in the annual budgets of the Stortinget. The practice has been that municipalities have to cover a share of the costs, and this share has been set at 20 pst since 1998. It has been possible to obtain a reduction or exemption from the district share in some specific cases. This supports the Christian People's Party. The proportion of districts can be a major burden on the budgets of some municipalities. In some cases, natural damage could occur in municipalities with a large area and a small population, resulting in limited budgetary resources. The Christian People's Party will therefore underline the need for a flexible approach to the financing issue. More often, we see cases where municipalities are disproportionately affected by flooding and migration, with the result that it becomes difficult for local authorities to carry out the necessary cleaning and repair tasks. In such cases, it is natural, as we see it, that the state assumes greater financial responsibility. Together with the rest of the opposition, the Christian People's Party is promoting two proposals today. We ask the government to review the law on compensation in the event of flooding, race and natural damage to the municipalities, with a view to the state taking greater financial responsibility when municipalities are disproportionately hard hit. We also ask the government to provide an overview of the need for flood and racial protection, including the associated strategy and state escalation plan for meeting the situation. These proposals will be voted on by the Government parties today. I hope that the Council of State will nevertheless note the intention behind these proposals. I believe that in the long term this is an area where it is important to stick together – it is an important area to ensure for people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1236	Flood and escape are natural processes and represent the dangers we have to live with. The question is how to live with these dangers – what responsibility we all have as individuals and what responsibility the authorities should have. That's why the flood and gliding messages are important. Here we present the government's policy and describe the steps we want to take to prevent damage from floods and escapes. Population growth and general economic growth contribute to the growth of the damage potential of floods and gliding. Future climate change will reinforce this. A main message in the message is that we can – and should – do much to prevent, but also that we will never be able to guard against new floods and new steps. That's why we've given the message the title How to live with the dangers. The government will work through targeted and systematic work to keep the risk of flooding and slippages at an acceptable level. In this work, all actors must contribute to their responsibilities. Each of us has the fundamental responsibility to protect himself and his own property. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring security against floods and migrations through redevelopment and local preparedness. It is important that municipalities are active, carry out risk and vulnerability monitoring and take responsibility for managing the flood and escape risk at local level. In addition, individual sectoral budgets and activities need to address floods and hazards, inter alia. in the planning and securing of infrastructure such as road, rail, electronic communications and power networks. Then, of course, there is also a need for strong government involvement from other departments and directorates. We want Norway's watercourse and energy directorate to continue the work on flood and tailor-made prevention. The NVE shall have an overall approach including both monitoring, spatial planning, security measures, monitoring, alerting and preparedness. Monitoring is important because it is the basis of all other prevention activities. There's already a lot of good done here, and there's a need to continue and reinforce this. Flomsone maps shall be updated, inter alia: to capture the effects of climate change. In addition, snow slide care maps shall be improved. With more detailed maps, municipalities will have a simpler job in land planning, and it will be easier to avoid construction in vulnerable areas. Existing settlements located in exposed areas must be protected as far as possible. The government has increased the appropriations for monitoring and securing since the merger of responsibilities in NVE in 2009, and we will continue the state's efforts to secure vulnerable settlements against floods and gliding. That means that we gradually and every year achieve better security. Not all settlements can be secured, and there are also many who travel in areas where there is at times a danger of flooding or slipping. Therefore, it is important that we monitor conditions and alerts when there is danger. The flood warning service is well established, and we are constantly working to improve it. In addition, we will continue to work to improve snow-spraying and continue the development of landslide alerts. Although the authorities do what they can to improve security, it is important that people take responsibility for themselves. You have to know the local conditions and take them into account. We're doing a lot to prevent flooding and going, but we can't avoid everything. In critical situations, it is particularly important that roles and responsibilities are clear. The interaction between the municipality, the county, the rescue facilities and the NVE is central. For some areas of prevention, responsibilities are not clear enough. The government has therefore announced a review of the cover. 3 in the Natural Damage Act, on Protection against Natural Damage. The objective of such a review shall include, inter alia: be to clarify the responsibilities of local authorities for securing existing buildings and to assess other aspects of monitoring and securing. The Communication also warns the Government that a national strategy for better cooperation and coordination should be established. All aspects of prevention will be part of the strategy: mapping, land planning, security measures, monitoring, alerting, preparedness, crisis management, R & D, education and knowledge dissemination. The various actors shall contribute within their responsibilities. They shall cooperate in solving problems where appropriate and exploit each other’s peak competence. The escalation of this government has contributed to the fact that today we have come a long way in the prevention of flooding and migration. This message sent out the course further. A lot can be done, and there are many actors who have to take their share of responsibility – the state, the county municipality, the municipality or the individual. It is the government's aim to improve the capacity of society to prevent flood and escape risks. We're going to do everything we can to prevent, but we won't be able to guarantee ourselves against new floods and new steps. The most important thing we can do is therefore to learn how to live with the dangers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1268	Hazard monitoring is important to ensure that an alert system is in place. Then you can live with danger. Living with danger as one knows is there, without one knowing what time it is triggered, is unsustainable. But unexplained responsibilities of existing buildings have a focus in the message. What is being done, and where are things now when this particular issue is at stake?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1273	The government announced in this message that we believe that there are not enough responsibilities here. We are therefore alerting a review and a teamwork, which will of course be presenting the Storting in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1278	Cost-benefit assessments are important in relation to a limited amount of resources that can be used for these key prevention purposes. Now a few questions have been asked to the Council of State regarding the dam safety regulation that came into force on 1 January 2010, and lack of diet/benefit assessments there. Stakeholders in the industry believe that the improvements we have to do on the ponds are comparable to whether we have a mint on the E39 and that we put a few centimeters on a pre-existing mint. Thus, it is required to make investments to billions of dollars without any cost-benefit assessment. Does the Council of State consider it a sensible management of society's resources that one spends so many billions on such a limited upgrade of the ponds?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1283	Dam safety is a major and important issue. It is not directly covered by this message, but I will nevertheless link some comments to the comment of the minority. The main point is that no dietary/benefit assessment is carried out for these safety requirements as the regulation did not intend to tighten up the requirements. That is, there is also wear, new knowledge, sentences, etc. linked to existing ponds. The requirements that have been imposed are mainly related to the maintenance of the standard and the safety assessments that are already in place. I think that makes sense – at least I think the opposite is unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1288	I record that I am not getting further on that question, but I hope that the Council of State also sees that it may be reasonable to have diet-benefit assessments related to the regulatory part. My question goes on with this step-by-step. The Council of State was in its intervention on the importance of improving the snowmobile alerting. Now, unfortunately, it is also such that the research resources for snow slide research have been reduced, and it is actually in contrast to the challenge of snow slide. So my question to the Council of State is whether he sees the need to escalate the funds for snow-track research.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1295	The representative is right, on the general basis, that the 2012 allocation is slightly reduced, from 3.5 million. NOK 3 million. kr. But we're still going to grant $3 million. kr for snow slide research. This is important to us, and it is a subject that we want to focus on in the future and want to develop further. It's also important to draw the overall picture, and it's about a significant escalation within snowmobile alerts, where there's now a separate website where people can go in and see if there's racial danger in the areas where you're going to move. We're constantly working on improving that both qualitatively and quantitatively. I have great faith that it can be a useful and important tool for anyone who travels in this country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1302	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1305	Climate change alerts will make Norway's climate both warmer and wetter, and we will still be able to experience extreme weather conditions. These changes make it even more important to focus on preventing damage and learning to live with the dangers of floods and escapes. It is important to shape a knowledge-based policy, so that Norway is increasingly equipped to meet future challenges without losing life and health, as many have mentioned. In Rome we got a good example of how strong wind can set a whole section of the country out of play. The Hurricane 'Dagmar' did great damage to the North-West. It was frightening to see how a whole society was out of play for several days because of the power cut and the break of the telecommunications network. In my part of the country, there has been a great leap and a great rush that has claimed many lives. Both in the Lodalen and Tafjord, there were huge mountain blocks that created river waves and the ruins of entire branches. In Lodalen a total of 135 people were killed in the two large rascal hatches in 1905 and 1936. In the Taphud, 41 people died in the Great Rasulukka in 1934. These rasulves have seen their deep tracks. When you know that there are many places in the mountains where fear is to come out, this creates fear and anxiety. In Stranda municipality on Sunnmøre a whole mountain range in Åkneset can fall down in Storfjorden. There is a monitoring centre, Åknes/Tafjord Standød IKS, which monitors Åkneset in Stranda, Hegguraksla in the municipality of Norddal and Mannen in the municipality of Rauma. The work will be on monitoring and warning if a mountain trail with the following river waves arrives. The train legs expand evenly, and it makes people nervous. It also has implications for development plans, both for municipalities and business. It is crucial to strengthen knowledge and to put in place good alert procedures and contingency plans in order to have an acceptable level of risk associated with this type of event. The monitoring centre on Stranda is very important both for the fjords in More and Romesdal and in a national context. It is also crucial for a wider social development in these areas that the demands for security are balanced against the need for people to live there. The construction ban introduced in Storfjorden created major challenges, and it is good that the general ban could be lifted when the monitoring centre came into place. Right? I think it's very important to clarify the challenges of floods and races, and then it has to be done more by the state than it is being done today. This is also why the Right proposes to ask the government to provide an overview of the need for flood and racial protection, with a strategy and state escalation plan for meeting these challenges. For municipalities that are affected by such events, this also leads to major economic challenges. Right therefore means that it is also right that the state assumes a greater financial responsibility when a municipality is hit by such major and serious events.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1326	Loose meal told of the damage done by the hurricane ‘Days’. The plume in Gudbrandsdalen and Østerdalen last year is another example of how flaum and scrape can quickly destroy houses, gardens, roads, and even parts of branches. Only great effort – finally, many gardeners now have their own excavator, and these were quickly introduced into the rescue work – saving lives. This is an example of the dramatism that occurs when you're running out of time. We also had an example in 1995, and there are many such cases throughout the country. Many people who have made contact, media communication and discussions in retrospect also reveal great ambiguities about responsibilities and role-sharing when it comes to hazard monitoring, prevention and redress. In the latter case, compensation, there were at least high expectations that the government would cover all the costs of damage to county roads, municipal roads and others. In particular, certain central announcements and signals contributed to such expectations. That is why it is very good that we now get a big message about this, and it is very important with the specific follow-up that the message outlines. It is important to clarify responsibilities and also to provide a framework for increased efforts for prevention, security measures and emergency plan osb. When it comes to contingency plans, I don't think it was so bad in the Gudbrand valley, but it was at least a great effort to save the situation for people. There are some things that have been in focus in retrospect, among other things. the need for rapid cleaning and securing in the event of new damage. That's the time from the damage, until the damage comes, one claims to be too long. Many people find it very difficult to repair and not least prevent new damage. A lot of people can go a long way, but they were pretty worried about the big advance they had to make last year. Therefore, it is good that we have some additional arrangements for new security measures. It is perceived as particularly unfair that the state is repairing its own roads, but not beggars when it comes to county roads and municipal roads. Therefore, we need to clarify what is the state and the NVE's responsibility, and what they can contribute, so that there is a correlation between expectations and realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1343	Many of the speakers here today have been talking about large municipalities with small budgets, which have been hit by such disasters. As the appointed rapporteur in the municipality of Holtålen, I cannot say anything. We're a municipality of the size of half of Westfold, and we have 2,000 inhabitants. On August 16, 2011, we were struck by an incredibly large flood, which traveled downwards with the whole center. There's been a lot of talk about prevention and monitoring, and no matter how much a surveyor and meter, that's not all you know. To us there was no reported flood warning at all, and suddenly the river rose by six meters in just a few hours. So one can in any case not be prepared for everything. There has been a lot of talk about emergency preparedness, and it worked very well with us despite the fact that the village was divided into three parts with all the infrastructure that was gone. But two or three days later, the really demanding work comes. The challenges in retrospect are unforeseeable. Despite the fact that many here have been critical today, I am really very pleased with the follow-up we have received. I am in contact with both the administration and political management, and we are pleased with the follow-up we have received from the county council, and we are pleased with the follow-up we have received from the state, both through departments and through the underlying agencies. As mentioned above, the district share is adjusted in extreme cases. In this case it was fortunately adjusted. There were several similar events in the country at the same time, and it was adjusted down to 5 pst., which means incredibly much to be rebuilt again. In the case of beauties, it is the fact that the fair share around is 250 kroner per capita. I have to say that I am surprised that we are so well helped by the big community when we are hit so hard. In our municipality only expenditure on municipal infrastructure was 20-30 pst. of the municipal budget, and it goes without saying that reconstruction without the help of the state would have been absolutely impossible to get ashore. Then, of course, there are some challenges and things that can be done better. In particular, I am pleased that the Ministry of Oil and Energy now announces that they are starting legal work with a view to clarifying the liability for securing damage to the natural environment. Among other things, we have a challenge that the NVE has clarified the kind of action they are going to take in the 11th century, but at the same time we rely on the county to finance the new county road that goes on top. So I'm very happy that this work is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1366	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1380	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1389	The corps are concerned about poor conditions for the corps and want more attention around the problem, as they know daily. It is worrying when many youths end up in the school corps. Norway's Music Corps Association is Norway's largest voluntary cultural organisation with over 65,000 members. As I understand them, the patience is now sparsely worn out by what they think is a lack of interest from the government, the Ministry of Culture and the cultural power of Oslo. You don't mess with old corps. Last year, they threatened to boycott 17 May. Fortunately, there was nothing of it. The corps feel that they are not getting attention about their concerns, which are especially about strengthening the corps. This should be a golden opportunity for the government to enter into discussions with the organisations and the corps community. There's a dramatic drop-out in the school corps. It's a big drop-out of musicians between 10 and 19 years old, which gives cause for great concern. The school corps have lost 40 pst. by members aged between 10 and 19 since 2004. The latest figures show that they have lost 3,500 in this age group only in the last year. It's just the group between 10 and 19 that we want to catch up and get involved in the movement. These are dramatic numbers that give cause for concern. If we plot these curves for the school corps, the corps will be gone in 12 years. What is the reason for the non-response? Is it only in celebrations that volunteering in Norway should be strengthened? The Progress Party believes that it is not right that only the parents should take responsibility for the movement of the people who are the musicians. Everyone must take responsibility: the government, the municipality and, not least, the Stortinget here today. The Progress Party has some ideas about how the movement can be strengthened, as we also write in our proposal. The progressing party realizes that patience is over. The party recognises that the framework conditions for the school corps need to be significantly strengthened. The Progress Party is aware that Norway's Music Corps Association and the Kulturskole in Bergen are now working together on a project to strengthen the school corps in the Laksevåg area and corps education in school time, with very good experience. It can be a solution for other of the country's school corps, without the government wanting to assess this, and I find that regrettable. The work done with the training of the corps at school has produced good results and has contributed to the recruitment of more aspirants to the corps. Corps is important because it creates a community for children and young people. Most schools will also be able to meet more fully the requirements of the curriculum by introducing corps into schools. ‘Korps at school’ is also an effective tool for creating more musicians. There is very good and positive experience from a cooperation between Nes and Flah cultural school, Nes primary school and Nesbyen school corps, where the project was carried out in the school year 2009/2010. The educational system has strengthened both the teaching of music at school and the recruitment of the school corps as well as the music and cultural life for the rest – yes, a cheek egg. I don't know if it's forbidden to say "child eggs" in the Storting today, but there are at least three good solutions that we should consider. The school playground was also more than doubled the following year. The UNESCO study also notes that poor education in the cultural field has a direct negative impact on children's creative self-confidence. What this study emphatically states is that good education in art and culture has great positive effects on children and young people in school. Cultural education contributes to increased self-confidence, less absence and better reading and writing skills among children and young people. So good education in the cultural field, with good quality and competent staff, has clear positive effects on children and young people's health and overall satisfaction and motivation. Good education in the cultural field can affect children and young people and the whole community. It can also affect students' motivation and self-confidence. This is a win-win thing that the government should engage in dialogue with the corps. Finally, I want to promote the proposals on which the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1410	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will draw attention to the fact that it is both permissible to talk about cheek eggs and to buy it, as far as the President has understood!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1415	The movement of the body is an important part of cultural life in Norway, and it activates very many children and young people. The body music is also a central part of Norway’s major events, and not only on 17 May. Corps has also been an important part of the cultural promise of red-green parties. Already in the first budget we presented in the autumn of 2005, we established a completely new system, a separate instrument system for the school corps. It was then granted 2.5 million. kr for this scheme in the autumn of 2005. Today, this plan is 10 million. kr, and it is actually important money when the school corps are to invest in new instruments. Corps is also an important part of volunteering, and the red-green government has taken great, important steps to lift the will. We reinstated Freefonds on the state budget after the Minister of Culture Svarstad Haugland proposed to remove it in the 2006 budget. This has really benefited the music villages as well. Today, the music boxes receive 10 million. kr through the Freefonds scheme. On Friday, Minister of Culture Anniken Huitfeldt presented the sporting announcement, which included: proposes to change the key, and that means even more money for Freefonds. The red-green government has also introduced a system of grassroots percentage. Some believe that the grass root has benefited only from the sport. It's definitely wrong. In 2011, the music towns – the local music towns – received 16.5 million. kr from the scheme. I am quite amazed that the opposition could oppose and vote against such an arrangement when it was established. It is also a system that provides direct support to the communities of organisations. Without the grass root fraction, most of this would have gone to the central joints, and we don't know how much that would have come directly to the locust joints. We have also put in place a stepping-up plan for the VAT compensation system. Today it's 600 million. And we know it's going to be up to 1.2 billion. kr. The corps movement also receives its legitimate share of this arrangement. In 2009, the Corps received 1.9 million. kr in VAT compensation. Just two years later, in 2011, the sum had doubled, to 19 million. kr. We know this is going to increase sharply in the years to come, when the escalation plan is carried forward. The red-green government has made a strong commitment to voluntary organisations, and we have also made a strong commitment to the corps movement. Never has the state given more money to the corps. At the same time, we know that the movement of the corps wears down. We know that the number of members is decreasing, and that the cost is increasing. But if this is due to a lack of public funding, I am more uncertain about it. There might also be other reasons. Maybe there's a lack of hard work among parents, or it could be that kids have got a slightly different focus and want to keep up with other things. But what the crew movement should be sure about is that in the years to come, we red-green want to bet on both volunteering and the crew movement. We are the main guarantor of a further cultural promise. If there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that if we get a bourgeois government in the autumn of 2013, with the Progress Party on the load, there's not going to be any more money either for culture or for volunteering, because you're going to do completely different priorities. Then, in the proposal, it is proposed that the school corps should be included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. We're not red-green initially negative to that, but the ministry has now given the Council of Culture a mandate to develop procedures for that. When those procedures are in place, it is important that it is also assessed whether the corps can become part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site. Then I just want to say that I think it is completely wrong – and I think we have also clearly documented it – that volunteering is not just a party speaker from the red-green government, but it is a change in the key, it is a VAT compensation scheme, and it is an instrument scheme, which shows that we are betting on both the volunteer and the music stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1434	The proposers indicate that the school corps have a special position in Norway. I think all the parties in the committee agree on that. At the same time, we see that the movement of the corps is experiencing major challenges. School corps are struggling with the downturn and the economy. When we celebrate our national day, we also notice that the many places experience not getting crews that can play in the nursery. Some have to resort to corps from our neighboring country. It may be particularly serious as we approach the marking of our anniversary of the Constitution. The challenges of the body movement are complex, and that state resources alone are not sufficient to maintain the number of members, I think we also need to recognise. The decline in the number of school corps is as much a local problem for each school, school of culture and municipality, and it is important to see what kind of action can be taken to stop the decline. It is a major challenge to keep track of youth, but also to recruit new ones. The corps are struggling with what very many other offers are struggling with, that when there is more competition, and you have more opportunities to participate in different things, it will be difficult to maintain the membership mass, the commitment and the time you spent in the past, for example. The corps. State aid to the corp movement has increased significantly under the red-green government. Through the Cultural Promise, a new instrument purchase grant scheme of 10 million in 2012 has been established. kr. In addition, the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations and the Grassroots share has been introduced through Norwegian Typing. We see that through these schemes, support for the corps movement has increased from 15 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 55 million. kr in 2011. I believe a joint committee is aware that the corps movement is facing major challenges. But I think we're wondering ourselves if we just say at the same time that this is about economics, because it's clear that alone it won't motivate and lead to more people wanting to be in the corps. So here both the municipalities, the schools and the cultural schools have to take responsibility, because under this government it has been seen that more economics have been contributed to the corps. At the same time, we see that you are struggling with a good enough follow-up that makes even more people want to participate and use their leisure time to play in school corps.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1447	I would first like to thank you for a very good proposal from the Christian People's Party, which we are debating here in the Chamber today. The right fully supports the very good initiative of the Christian People's Party. It's not long since we became five million Nordics. We're still a small country in the world, but we're a big country in the music village world. In fact, Norway has more active band musicians compared to the population than any other country. We've had this tradition for almost 140 years. The music corps create musical joys for both practitioners and listeners throughout Norway, and they are important to our national cultural heritage. From my hometown, Klebu, where we have an amazing music village, I know how much it means to the village that we have a good crew when the village gathers for a party. But we also know how much work is behind it, and we know to appreciate the fires that work many, many, many hours for us as an audience to get so much amazing musical joy back. It is a pleasure that the corps movement over time has mobilized so widely throughout the country and kept Norwegian cultural heritage alive through exercises and concerts, for the non-material culture we must use, whether it should live in people's consciousness. Unfortunately, we see a negative trend in which the school corps are struggling with a fall in membership and rising costs. When the government refers to what they've done for culture, they like to talk about the increase in cultural budgets. But how much of the cultural promise has gone to the voluntary cultural life? A study by Freewill Norway shows that voluntary cultural life is eaten off with such a small increase as only 4.5 pst. It's not much to brag about. The framework conditions of the corps have been drastically deteriorated. The situation is now serious. Volunteering became the loser when the government broke its promise of 200 million new VAT compensation for 2012. The corps also continue to pay more VAT to the State than they receive through public support schemes. Since the Cultural Lift came, the Corps have also lost 4.8 million. kr i Frifond. The instruments have become more expensive. The Instrument Fund needs to be increased strongly to meet the needs of the Corps for new instruments, in particular after the Young People's Orchestral Association became part of the scheme. Expenditure on conductors' wages and salaries is increasing. More and more corps are losing their agreements to cover their conductor expenses through the cultural school. In this picture, it is unreasonable that the purchase of uniforms and instruments by the corps is subject to VAT. Until an exemption model is in place, the Right expects the government to make its promises now and that the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations will be increased. Already in the revised national budget, the Right proposes an increase of 50 million. kr to voluntary organisations. We're waiting to see what the government's going to do. As in sport, it is also in the field of music that broad culture and elite culture are interdependent. Many professional musicians have started in the Corps and are now both role models and role models for today's corps musicians. We must therefore take seriously the role of the administrator of the Norwegian music village tradition and contribute to the renewal, strengthening and further development of the corps for the future. We know that poor education in the field of culture builds up the creativity and self-confidence of children, while good education in art and culture has great positive effects on children and young people in school. Children get increased self-confidence, better reading and writing skills and less absence. In addition, the health of children and young people is improved. I hope we get a majority for this good proposal, so that the government will also soon come back to the Storting with a strategy that strengthens the corps movement. So to the UNESCO Convention and the protection of intangible heritage. Here, too, the Norwegian School Corps movement makes itself felt. I hope this one will be able to enter the UNESCO World Heritage List, because this is a tradition that is unique worldwide. We're going to be proud of the corps tradition. It should also be possible for the whole Storting to stand behind today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1470	For many years, we've been raising the cultural budget year after year, until now it's just up to 9 billion. kr. So the question is, how do we want to spend 9 billion? kr on culture? One of my most important answers would be to use these 9 billion. children and young people are allowed to create, and it is provided for children and young people to be able to express themselves through art and culture. It has to be a main task when we have the possibility of such a bet in this field. But then it's a paradox when we look around our country. After this historic escalation, we see that the cultural schools are one of the areas where the government has almost failed to deliver anything in relation to its promise. We see that the corpus movement is only smeared by the cultural budget, and we see, not least, that the school corps are one of the areas that are really struggling. Corps is one of the great voluntary movements in our country, where just grown-up people, but not least children and young people, are given the opportunity to express themselves through music. Here you learn basic music skills, you learn to play an instrument, and – not least – you learn to play with others. The body movement arranges 17 000 concerts each year. It's school corps, it's adult corps, it's drill corps – it's other types of ensembles. Every year, 8,000 new children begin in a corps. We are fantastically lucky and privileged who have such a great actor in music and culture for children and young people, including us. As was said by the previous speaker, this is quite unique in the international context. It is therefore not just a national responsibility, but an international responsibility to take care of the art and the movement that this represents. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wishes to facilitate the entry of the Corps movement under UNESCO's protection as soon as possible. But it's costing to drive a corps, as we all know. School droplets spend 85 million each year. kr for the purchase of musical instruments. In a single school corps, there could be instruments for 1 million. kr. How do you get 1 million? kr through volunteering? It's a huge challenge. Right here, the voluntary movement is making such an amazing effort every day. Last night I was at the concert at Prindal School with Prindal Skolekorps, Holmlia Skolekorps and Prindal Skolekor, who made Latino concert with an enormous voluntary effort, week by week with planning, practice, preparation, rigging of equipment and with parents who worked from early in the morning to late in the evening to get to such an amazing gathering point for the village si. Norway actually has a unique tradition for choirs and a unique tradition for corps. Why in the world are we doing so little when it comes to conductor development? Now it's time we followed that up too. The red-greens are proud of their efforts, we hear. You get the impression that you've done enough for corps. They'll be fine. The rest get them sorted out by themselves – municipalities, community, parents. More hard work is the answer from the red-green ones. Self-satisfaction does not lead to success. I have to say that I am a little stated when once again you have a discussion about how to maintain a unique Norwegian culture tradition as a corps, and get the answer: Yes, we have granted so much, and if the others win the election, we don't know how it goes. It just doesn't make sense to give the parents who drive this unique cultural movement in Norway, so simple, rhetorical responses. Here we have to set up. We need to create a strategy for the corps movement that allows it to evolve further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1491	It's been a bit confusing, but also partly clarifying, discussion we've had in the hall today. Firstly, if you are occupied by Freefonds, which is a scheme the school corps get money from, the opposition should be very happy to lose the election in 2005, because what was the greeting of the Bondevik government in the last draft state budget was to cut the Freefonds completely. The first thing we did was we increased that pot, so it became more of a child and youth culture and more of it to the school corps. If the representative of Håbrek believes that talking about money is too simple an answer, I fundamentally disagree with him in that. It's also about giving some money to the school corps, so they can move forward. It's about volunteering. It's about all of the arrangements we've put in place since we took over. The first was that we introduced an instrument fund – it says 9.7 million. kr. It didn't exist before. We've increased the grass roots to 16.5 million. kr., a scheme against which the opposition lots were grouped in this room. We have increased the VAT compensation scheme so that the school corps get 18.9 million. kr. When we took over, this was approx. One million. kr. We've given a lot of money. But there is one scheme that the school corps have received less from in 2011 than in 2009, and it is from the Free Fund grant. It was the arrangement that the Bondevik government would shave like one last greeting to the Corps before it went off. But it is precisely this scheme that we now want to increase as a result of changes in the key. There are three schemes to which the Corps have been given more – thanks to the cultural promise – but the scheme on which the school corps have not taken part in the increase is the Freefonds scheme, because it is largely on the key. Through the changes in the key, we will give more to Norwegian sport, but also to the part of cultural life that is on the key – it's the cultural school bag, it's child and youth culture, and it's the school corps. I believe that the framework conditions are important, and that we have delivered much to the Corps, but we want to deliver even more. The thing is, since we took over, support for the Corps has been quadrupled. It was good that the Bondevik administration went off. The proposers believe that corps are part of the intangible cultural heritage, and I agree with that. Norway has also ratified the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage, and we have obligations to preserve the intangible cultural heritage of our country. Now the Norwegian Cultural Council is working on an overview of the intangible cultural heritage in Norway. When we have such an overview, we can see if there are appropriate ways to protect this, and what need there is for it. Now it's working on such a list. Whether it's Corps, whether it's folk dance, or whether there's a storyteller tradition that's to be on the list that Norway is submitting to UNESCO, we're going to decide at a later stage. But at least there's an important discussion that we've had here in Stortingen today about what's going to be on this list. It is rare that the discussions in this room correspond so much to what you experience at home. I myself went to the school corps, Jessheim school corps, when I was a little girl, and that's exactly today I'm going to follow my first child to the school corps, she's going to start in the same school corps that I went into. I know that there is a lot of hard work to do, and a lot of effort from the government, but at least I'm glad that we've been quadrupling the grants to the school corps lately – which provides a basis for growth. Yes, it is good that it is the cultural promise that forms the basis for the corps policy we should have in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1511	No more money has ever been allocated to Norwegian agriculture, and farming disappears every week. There has never been more money allocated to Norwegian corps music, but it disappears on a daily and weekly basis. Everyone sees that there are major challenges in the movement of the corps when costs go up more than subsidies, and the numbers of members go down. It may be appropriate to look at other schemes and find new solutions — and not least to have conversations with the body movement. We have to take care of the cultural heritage, but it must not be the case that the corps movement must operate with cakelottery in order to pay VAT to the state. Then we've gone in the wrong direction. Corps who have tried to cooperate between the cultural school, the schools and the SFO have positive experiences. What will the Council of State do? Will she take the initiative in a conversation, and will the Council of State even take a conversation with the Corps movement to hear about the challenges they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1521	Of course, I'm going to have a good dialogue with the corps movement. It's quite right that the representative is concerned that there are many places you have a very good cooperation with the school, and that it's been lucky for the corps. Some of the projects we support through the funding for the development of the cultural school are just about the cooperation between the corps and the school. These are important initiatives that we will look at in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1526	It is a pleasant event for the Minister of Culture to bring his daughter to practice in the Corps, and it may also be useful for the Minister of Culture, because then she can talk to the parents of the children in the Corps. I don't think the parents of the children in the Corps in the same way that the Minister of Culture is so concerned about what the Bondevik government did for the Corps between 2001 and 2005. I think the parents of today's young people in the corps are concerned about what will happen to the future of the corps. I had also hoped that the Minister of Culture was – that she was not as concerned about what happened in 2001, 2002 and 2003, but that she was concerned about the future and the future corps. My question is whether the Minister of Culture thinks that the proposal now presented by the Right in the revised national budget, by 50 million. kr extra to the VAT compensation scheme and non-governmental organisations is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1533	I have much greater ambitions on behalf of the VAT compensation scheme than that. What we want until 2014 is a total escalation of 1 billion. kr. The extra millions from the Right are getting a little puzzled in that context, so I want to step up the VAT compensation system. In addition, I want to change the key, because Frifond has to a large extent ‘standing’ on the key, so there has not been any progress as well as on the cultural budget. But through the proposal to change the key, as the government presented on Friday, we get a growth in support of the voluntary child and youth culture of about 50 pst. I think we should measure results. We have had great results in the corps since we took over in 2005. I'm proud, but I'm not satisfied, and that's why I want to move on in the same direction, with more to culture and no to tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1540	I was going to ask the Council of State about the joint comments that we had with the Red-Green on conductor development, which is very relevant to the corps movement, but after hearing the statements of the Council of State, I think maybe I have to ask another question. Then I'll get back to conductor development on another occasion. I think the Council of State is aware that we actually increased the investment through Freefonds in our period. It was the appropriations on the state budget that went down, while you got more through the funds. It's the same uncertainty you live with, and the government exposes Freefonds to, when you want to increase Freefonds through the key. I think many people in the voluntary sector will be disappointed that VAT compensation is being used as a support scheme, as an argument against getting more money. That was not the purpose of the VAT compensation. I have to remind you that the proposal that lies here is actually no criticism of the government. It's a proposal for a strategy for the corps movement, which we hope to bring together a majority behind. After hearing the statements of the Council of State, I simply ask: What is the Council of State's strategy to strengthen the movement of the corps in the future – because we know that we are satisfied with the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1551	By moving forward with the strategy we have now adopted, on increasing the appropriations through the VAT compensation system and through the Freefonds – which are good arrangements for the movement of the corps – we want to give greater economic scope for action to the Corps. Then it's not right that the representative says in the case of Freefonds: the truth is that when Frifonds got on the key, the Bondevik government wanted to remove it completely from the state budget. We said yes to both – precisely because we wanted to give more money. So when we changed the key last time, in 2005, the funds went to the child and youth culture – as part of the profit from the key – percent down. Now there's a good basis for increasing this, and that's why we want to change the key to give more to volunteer child and youth culture and more to corps.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1560	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1565	I'm just going to start where the representative, Håbrek, concluded: this proposal was not a criticism of the government, but a challenge in terms of what you want to do with the situation of the corps movement, that it is a reduction in the number of members, that costs are increasing, and that you are therefore receiving less public support. The answer from the red-greens is quite astonishing. It's a tough criticism of the bourgeois parties, that's to show how bad everything was in 2005, and how bad it's going to be from 2013, when the bourgeois take over. By the way you argue, you've already cashed in the election defeat for the red-greens, and I can see that, to a large extent, when you don't have the confidence in your own policies that you should obviously have had the opportunity to have. Because it's like the red-green parties have been driving the government for eight years. They have had a majority in this Chamber for eight years, but they have not been able to deliver — nor in the case of the corps movement. This debate could have been constructive. This could have been an idea of what one wants to do for such an important movement as the corps movement. But it doesn't want the red-green ones. They just want to attack the opposition, which has made an interesting suggestion, and which is mild in its way of referring to the government, both in notes and in this room. We just want to have an idea of what you can do for the corps movement in the future as well. But it doesn't want the red-greens to be on it. I have to say that it disappoints me a little bit, but in a way I can see it too. For an important element in the movement of the corps, to get everyone to play the same tune and to do it pretty fast, and it may not have shaped this government for the eight years it's been sitting. But someone as paralysed as this government has been, one should look for a long time. The proposal promoted by the minority – the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party – should actually have been a unanimous proposal in the UK. It's like: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the 2013 State Budget, to submit proposals for a strategy to strengthen the Norwegian Corps Movement.’ Here you have a sea of opportunities to strengthen the corps movement, both in terms of economics, and in terms of completing the VAT compensation, which this government has fought hard against. So you've had a lot of opportunities, but you've deliberately chosen not to use them. That's what I think is sad, and then I think it might as well be that you get a real government change in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1583	As several speakers have pointed out, the movement of the corps represents a unique feature – internationally – through the broad expression that we have managed to create for a form of music that is not at international level in the same breadth and strength. In Norway, we are so lucky to have this unique corps movement, and this means that we should feel a responsibility – most to ourselves, more than to the world community – to take care of this tradition and this movement. That is the background to the proposal that has been put forward, and that is what we had hoped to have a discussion about: what do we do to meet those challenges? The answer we have received is a table showing some appropriations from 2005 until today. Yeah, it's fine. It's great with the increases you've been making. But the truth is that this unique movement – this movement – has some challenges, and the question to the government is simply: What does the government want to do with it? That is what we want answers to. That there is more money in the state budget in 2012 than in 2005, we know that. But it actually helps the body movement very little, and there's actually no answer to how we meet those challenges. I hope the answer is something more than that the parents get to do even more – that you have more content in their delivery. In the case of VAT compensation, it is nice that at least a piece on the road has escalated the VAT compensation. But I think volunteering feels a little tricked if it's that because you've stepped up the VAT compensation, you use this in debate as an argument: you don't need any more money, because you get VAT compensation. In order to be a little careful, that was not what was meant or thought when VAT compensation was introduced. The idea was that it should be exactly what is in the word – compensation for the payment of VAT, and preferably an exemption. Towards the end of the debate, I will basically just sum up that it is nice to look at the spreadsheets of the red-greens about how the appropriations have evolved. We can add that if the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party had been adopted, there would have been more money for culture. But that's actually not what solves the challenges of the corps movement. I believe that in the context of the 2013 state budget, we should have worked together on a strategy – regardless of government options or elections in 2013 and who will be in government – and formed a majority for a strategy that would have strengthened this movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1596	In fact, Norwegian musicians invite as many as 17,000 concerts a year. They arrange NM for school corps, adult corps, drill corps, soloists and ensembles. The events bring together 15 000 musicians of all ages, and each year 8 000 kids start in the Corps and get to participate in developing and stimulating musical and social communities, through exercises, through tours, through summer courses. It seemed great to the right when the Christian People's Party presented this proposal and put forward an initiative to put a strategy for Norwegian Corps movement in the future. The Christian People's Party has also marked this in a very good way in the public debate, shows initiative, shows that one wants something with the movement of the future corps, that one wants to facilitate its further development. I must say, I am very disappointed at how the Minister of Culture and the head of the Committee on Culture meet such a proposal. Instead of receiving it with an open mind, praise and saying that here you recognise the initiative of the Christian People's Party and are happy to see that someone has the initiative to want to create a common strategy in the Storting, you meet it with suffocation and arrogance. We know that attack is the best defense, but going back to 2001 and telling about how it was then, doesn't hold. It is disappointing that we have a Minister of Culture who is not more concerned with being with the parties in Stortinget and look at how we are going to put together a strategy and ensure Norwegian corps movement in the future. The head of the Culture Committee also threatens in his intervention the Norwegian Corps movement to vote on the bourgeois, you can get the Advance Party in government, and they're going to cut the corps. I have not been in any conversation with any other civil parties here on Stortinget and have not received any promises from the Progress Party that they will cut in Norwegian corps if they come into government. Then the head of the Culture Committee must know something that we do not know in the Right. But I hope that the next time it comes initiative from the opposition to make plans, to be ambitious and to put strategies for parts of cultural life, we see a slightly different attitude from that of the Minister of Culture than that she is going to solve the opposition in the way that we have unfortunately witnessed in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1607	There is criticism from the opposition about the way in which the government parties have dealt with this debate. Then it is good that the posts from the opposition parties have been so up to the degrees that they have been constructive. I have to say that I have to look for a long time for which measures it is actually coming. Firstly, this debate has revealed that there is nothing to be done with regard to the appropriations allocated and the huge increase in support for Norwegian troops with this government. Then you change the strategy and you say we have to come up with a strategy. The answer is that we already have a strategy. We've been following it since 2005 with the Cultural Promise, where, first of all, we've given billions of dollars to cultural life, to volunteer, and where we've now seen a boom in this sector that we've never seen in Norway. In the case of corps, we also have a systematic increase in support, for example: through increased appropriations for the purchase of musical instruments, such as: My home corps, Ytterøy, which I have both played in and conducted, otherwise a very well-run corps, which goes so as to laugh – have benefited, without me having gone into it and influenced it – I have to add it in these times – and through the Grasrotten which Norwegian corps enjoy. With this government we have seen a historic increase to volunteer and to Norwegian troops. Never before has Norway contributed more through the community of our corps. Nevertheless, we see a decrease in membership. Then we have to allow ourselves to stop and ask: what is the reason for this decline? First of all, I would like to say that it is not new that the number of members of the Norwegian Corps is fluctuating. It has not been long since the last time there was a great fall in the mass of members, when many were dismayed and predicted the death of Corps-Norway. After that there has been a violent bloom, and we know that very many corps operate very well. But now, unfortunately, we see a decline. Different trends and situations in each community make it fluctuate in the future. What we know is that, in addition to the public support, parental participation is crucial, for example. on Outer Island and in the other Corps that operate very well. We see a clear context: where the parents are involved and they stand up and help the children play in the corps, it goes so it laughs. It must also be possible to say that there are limits to what we can set up with from statehood. We have increased support, and we're going to keep doing that. But there's a very significant factor in this, and that's commitment from the municipalities and from the parents. That's why it's so happy that many, many parents do good and share in keeping Norwegian troops alive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1614	The president insisted on suggesting that this meeting will last well over midnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1618	Yes, some may take the night shift. Measures were requested. We have to remember that this is a hundred-year-old movement, which is in rapid decline. We want to ensure that the corps movement in Norway has better conditions. The representative of the Workers' Party called for action. Then I think it's a pity he hasn't read the proposal. For there, there are lists of actions across several pages that can make it more interesting to play in the corps in the future, and that can make it more interesting to be involved and contribute. It's about conductors, support for instruments, how to practice, cooperation between the SFOs, the cultural schools and the schools. So we've picked up all of the points. Then they say that the bourgeois parties and opposition parties have not come up with anything constructive. Then I am a little surprised. Everyone sees that the body movement has challenges. Government parties have mentioned the key, Freefonds, economic escalation plan and VAT exemptions. But that in itself doesn't help. It's not very motivating for parents to bake cakes and operate with cacalottery to pay VAT to the state. What we are asking for in this proposal, and what the group movement is asking for when they express frustration in contact with us, is dialogue. They want a conversation, they want to be taken seriously, and they want what we call a strategy in our proposal. The majority and government should have a strategy together with the corps movement in the future to address the challenges posed by the corps movement. Most professional musicians in this country have just started their musical career in the corps movement. But not all shall be tried. For some, it's also a hobby. Parents who have children between 10 and 19 years of age in their corps find this to be pleasant and social. That's really so little we're asking for. We're asking for a strategy for how we're going to think in the future. Everyone should think ahead and not least have a conversation with the crew movement. I would recommend that the government parties support the proposals of the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1631	In the last sentence of Ib Thomsen, there was something I thought was good: conversation with the corps movement. It is clear that in order to establish a policy to strengthen the economic base of the Norwegian Corps, the Corps themselves know best what to do. But then economic conditions are important. I'm not sure what's going to result from a government change. The grass root fraction voted against an overall opposition. Do you want to remove or maintain the Gras Root fraction if you are in government position? The second point is changes in the key for which some parts of the opposition are in favour, while other parts are strongly opposed. Is the opposition to or against changes to the key, giving more to sport and more to child and youth culture? There are perfectly timely questions, to which the corps movement should have answers. What I notice in this room is the same thing we had the last time we had a debate on cultural policy, that the opposition speaks as an overall opposition and to a much smaller extent than a year ago is concerned with marking inequality and distance from each other. Once again we have witnessed a cultural debate where the Christian People's Party does not show in any way that they disagree with the Advance Party in cultural policy. I think we should notice that, because the first area where the red-greens were found together was the cultural policy area in this room exactly ten years ago. I have seen that the Left has chosen a Right Party government after the next elections as its strategy. The Christian People's Party has not defined the direction they now want, but I note what has been the line of the Christian People's Party in the last two cultural political debates here in the Chamber. I think it's a shame. I think it's going to be a disappointment for a whole Norwegian cultural life, for the corps, for the choirs, for the volunteer and for the cultural institutions. But if the desire for a change of government is more important than helping to raise Norwegian culture in the time to come, yes, then it's a choice to make on your own. I am concerned about continuing the cultural promise. 1 pst. must go to culture. It voted against the opposition parties in 2004. We won the election and got it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1642	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1645	If, as a cultural interest, I sat and listened to this debate, I think it was a little strange that the Minister of Culture – instead of being concerned with cultural policy – acts as an electoral campaign for the bourgeois parties. She should rather make some input to her party traps about how to put up the electoral campaign strategy. I think it's a little special to use the final article in a cultural debate to talk about who the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will cooperate with – or not cooperate with – but it should be. Representatives of government parties say that they – since 2005 – have put in place a strategy for the movement of the corps that works well. That is their answer as to why they are not on the proposal today. But what does that strategy lead to? Well, volunteering is the loser after the government's breakup of 200 million new dollars. In the case of VAT compensation, the corps still pay more VAT to the State than they receive, and the cultural promise has caused them to lose 4.8 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1652	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has also spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1655	I have said most of the things I have to say from the stand of the Christian People's Party in this debate, but the Minister of Culture is making this a debate about the Christian People's Party's election of government partners in 2013. I want to say that it should be done to find a changed line from the Christian People's Party in cultural policy in recent years, if that's what she's looking for. What we are discussing here is that the Christian People's Party has put forward a proposal for a strategy for the movement of the corps in Norway. It has been discussed in the Family and Culture Committee. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have said that they want a strategy for the Corps movement. The Labour Party has said that you don't want to. It is a good thing to clarify and vote over. It's no more mysterious than that. Then you refer to the previous cultural debate – it was in connection with a big message. The Christian People's Party wanted a debate on the extent to which the state should govern cultural life. The Minister of Culture did not want to discuss it, but she also wanted to make that debate a debate on government strategy. I just have to say it this way: it is the Minister of Culture and the government that governs the country. That is why we want a debate with the government on the content of cultural policy. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1664	The President indicates that speaking time is not a minimum speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1667	I know that I am now contributing to the Storting meeting being over midnight, so I'm going to try to limit myself as much as possible, but I have to say that I am a little surprised by the aggression we encounter from the opposition when the government parties actually tell me what the facts are in the matter. When we tell you that there's been a stake in music orps, there's been a stake in volunteering, you can't underestimate the fact. That over the last seven years we've been lifting the corps movement, it may be uncomfortable for the opposition to hear, but we have to have our right to actually mean it. It is only to mention the measures that have been taken. We established and introduced a separate equipment system for school music corps. As a result, for the first time in history, the purchase of equipment was supported by instruments. We put in place a separate system through the Grass Roots. Well, the opposition went against it, but it has led a considerable number of dollars to the musical orpsies as well. We are about to escalate the VAT compensation system, which means a lot of money for the corps movement. The last is that state councilman Anniken Huitfeldt presented the sports message and a change in the key, which means significantly more money through Freefonds, where you want to double the support to the children's and youth organisations. That it may be uncomfortable for the opposition to hear it, must be a problem for the opposition, but it shows that we actually have a government that is both acting, thinking and continuing to work for the other voluntary children's and youth organisations and also the corps movement to get better conditions in the years to come. It is true that there are still many roofs that can be taken to strengthen the corps movement and the other voluntary organisations, but no one is going to claim that this government has twinned its hands, been calm and done nothing in the last seven years – because it is directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1676	I'm sorry to prolong the debate, but I've been replaced, so I'm doing it with a good conscience. I have to say that I am stunned by the contribution of the Minister of Culture. It was an article that only contained an attack on the opposition. It is a well-known tactic that attack can be the best defense, but then you have to have something to attack with – and the Minister of Culture is missing in this case. I appreciated the post made by the representative Gjul. There was the representative Gjul a little constructive and pointed out the small government has done, but that is too little. This is why the movement of the corps is in this situation — while the Minister of Culture is taking the opportunity to attack. The Minister of Culture is very concerned about the sports message that has been presented. Then I can only inform the Minister of Culture of the following: the Sports Communication has not been dealt with in the Storting, and it is the Stortinge that will adopt it. Foreshadowing the content of the Sports Communication can be done to the extent that the Minister of Culture does, but it is not right, because it is the Stortinge that decides and possibly makes changes. Then it is that in that message, which has not been dealt with, there are proposals for changes to the key. It has been dealt with in this room, and then the government parties voted down the change that we have requested. But it's nice that the Minister of Culture has so far learned from the debates that have been here in the past and made a sports report. But foreshadowing what's going to be the result there, I won't. What I can say for the Progress Party is that we need to improve that report in very many areas, because it is very deficient. But that's what we'll have to do when that debate comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1689	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1703	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1712	Initially in my post I would like to point out that the distribution of child contributions is primarily a private matter. It is fully possible to agree on the distribution of this without the involvement of the public, but in some cases it is not possible to reach an agreement, and then it can be requested that the state – or the public – determine the child contribution. The rules for it have been discussed and amended several times. This is a statement that it is difficult to arrive at a uniform legislation that is appropriate for all, for each family and ex-family different. That's why it's also suggested that you use a good deal of discretion. In this matter and in the position of the Committee, there is a great deal of agreement on the basic principles on how this should be understood in the future. We agree that revenues are less than 80 pst. income in the full position shall fall outside the exception to the discretionary decision-making. So it's a question of revenue reduction of up to 20 pst. Here are the different balances that need to be made. Therefore, I think it is positive that the Council of State in its letter of reply signals that this should be considered as the appropriateness to maintain, and that the consequences of any changes should be assessed. Therefore, the Committee meets with an assessment of the possible consequences of any change and asks the government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate manner with an assessment of how this might turn out, and then we will have to take the discussion around it. Then there is a proposal from the Right and the Advancement Party which is to be voted on today. That may be the case, but I believe that this proposal is very unexplained. First of all, it says nothing about the reason why you are going into a job or choosing to be at home. There may be a number of reasons for this. It could be education, it could be moving to a new place, and it could be changing jobs. It may also be that you set up an enterprise, and in that case, such a proposal will seem directly hostile to business by preventing you from making such a choice as establishing an enterprise, if the consequence is that you are getting far less money to fund the living of your children. That is why I believe that a sensible approach to the matter is what the Council of State signals in its letter of reply, namely that this must be thoroughly reviewed and evaluated, and then come back to the Stortinget with such an assessment. I personally believe that when the reason for going into position up to 20 p.m. is that you want to be home with new children in a new relationship, I understand that it can be seen as unreasonable for your ex-partner that it might lead to an increase in contributions – that is my view. There may be advantages as well as counter-conceptions to this, but it is important to take a thorough review of this. That is why we look forward to a quick feedback from the Council of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1723	I would like to start by reading out the proposal, if the rapporteur has problems understanding the content of it: «The government immediately asks – and in line with the Innst intentions. S. No 185 and Inn. [[2006-2007]] [[2008-2009]] O. No 25 That is what we are going to discuss today. The rapporteur then says that most people come to an agreement – that is quite clear – but in some cases the rules of the game change along the way where someone has a new child with a new partner. It is important to remind ourselves of what this matter is about. The background for the whole case is the question of reduced income in relation to new children with new partners and the right to charge former partners with an increased financial burden if they have shared children. I will again refer to what the Ministry of Education and Gender Equality said in St.meld. No 19 for 2006-2007: ‘It is not uncommon for parents to re-establish themselves with new children, and it is still considered common for mother or father to be at home with young children. However, a choice to be at home with new children can be seen as an internal issue for the new family unit — a choice that concerns them only. Parents who are dependent on children from previous circumstances are initially free to act as they wish, but it has not been clearly stated that they can, with their choice, release from the legal obligation to provide care and transfer the burden to the other parent or to the public. In the view of the Department, it is therefore the new family unit that is closest to carrying the possible consequences of a choice to be at home with new children.» It supported a unanimous increase in 2007. When this matter became known in the media, there were several people in this room who were engaged. I would like to quote the honourable Member's colleague: ‘This is manifestly unfair. Here, the Minister for Family Affairs and Gender Equality, Audun Lysbakken, should take hold, and it quickly, says bigotry politician Freddy de Ruiter." He is supported by his colleague, Mr. Arild Stokkan-Grande: ‘The story has been aware of this injustice and has instructed the ministry to change its practice for the longest time. According to the Ormseth case, it may appear that the department has not implemented the change’ — as the Stortinget has decided. – ‘That is why the Lighthouse must be fixed as soon as possible.’ Do I need to say so much more? The matter has also gone out in time, much because the Committee has been waiting for the decision of the Equality and Discrimination Department. When it arrived some time ago, it concluded that this interpretation of the law was discriminatory to the party who had to pay more in contributions when the ex-partner chose to reduce income in order to care for new children with a new partner. Then we thought almost the matter was over – but no then. I will again be allowed to quote the President-in-Office, Stokkan-Grande: ‘I am pleased with the denominator’s conclusion. It is entirely in line with our positions. It is important in this matter, and to avoid similar matters in the future.’ To put it mildly, I am very disappointed with the case rapporteur, Mr. Stokkan-Grande, but not least about the seriousness of the matter with the Council of State, who has not followed up on the intention of a previous decision on the collapse. What the Council of State is essentially doing is she's rotating into a discussion of judgement. The progress party has not contested the 80 pst rule, but we have a slightly different interpretation of it. The progressing party reads the rule so that the income should be estimated if a voluntary reduction in pay is greater than 20 pst. relative to previous income. What the Council of State puts forward is indirect discrimination against women, because she believes that one can determine any income below 80 pst. of a full-time job, which systematically affects women, as we know, working more part-time than men. What disappoints me most in this matter is that the Council of State does not touch on what is actually the subject of the proposal, and that she does not show interest in following up what the Stortinget has said, namely that a contributor should not be burdened when the ex-partner voluntarily reduces his income after the birth of a new child with a new partner. Instead, she revolves in this matter into an argument that is more female hostile than constructive. I therefore do not overlook the fact that she may be leaning on the fact that the matter is as complicated as it actually is, and that the bureaucrats have come to argue against all the changes, based on what the rules are today. It is sad that today we are unable to follow up on the intention given by a previous staging. This affects many, and it is also a burden. We in the Progress Party can at least promise that we will fight further on this matter. I would like to raise the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right, which has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1776	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1779	The right is pleased that the Progress Party has taken up and followed up this matter, in particular on the basis of what the representative Horne has referred to here – not least the statements made by the President-in-Office, Stokkan-Grande, what he has said earlier in the matter. I also want to refer to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality in St.meld. No 19 for 2006-2007: ‘A choice to be at home with new children, however, can be seen as an internal issue for the new family unit — a choice that concerns them only. Parents who are dependent on children from previous circumstances are initially free to act as they wish, but it has not been clearly stated that they can, with their choice, release from the legal obligation to provide care and transfer the burden to the other parent or to the public. In the view of the Department, it is therefore the new family unit that is closest to carrying the possible consequences of a choice to be at home with new children. The Ministry will therefore propose that a contributor or beneficiary who chooses to be at home with new children have to bear the economic consequences of this choice.» Otherwise, as regards this proposal, I agree with what the rapporteur has started with, namely that the distribution of children's contributions should be primarily a private matter. But in some cases it's very difficult to come to an agreement. Then we have to have a law that is fair and that treats both parents equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1793	We are now dealing with a Document 8 proposal that addresses the question of whether a parent should pay more in contributions if the ex-partner chooses to be at home with reduced or no salary after having a new child with a new partner. The child benefit shall be determined on the basis of current and future income. The income of both parents is important for this determination. Past practice, where being at home with children under three years of age was a reasonable reason to have reduced or no income, changed from 1 January 2009. The rule whereby one accepts that both contributors and beneficiaries have a reduction of income of up to 20 pst, for whatever reason and without leading to a judgement, has not been discussed in particular in the past. In the media debate, in addition to some of the comments in this case, there is a lot of focus on the unfairness of those who are liable to contribute. It is then important to remember that the legislation contains reciprocity. In the assessment of contributions, a new child is also taken into account by the contributor. The Progress Party has not mentioned this specifically in its submission, but I assume that the Progress Party also believes that such reciprocity will continue to apply. If you take this into account, it's hard to see the bias and the discrimination that's been pointed to. The fact that parents have a freedom of action equal to a reduction in income of 20 p.m. also gives a signal that parents have to a certain extent to accept that the other parent makes arrangements when they are no longer to be included in the same household. The overall assessment that a family makes if you choose to go into income to be at home with a child, whether it is 80 or 100 pst. is not just an assessment of the situation that emerges when a new child is born, but an overall assessment of the situation of the new family. That is why I think there are good reasons both for and against keeping the rule, and it is not so obvious to me what will be the fairest outcome of this matter. That is exactly why it is also important that we get an assessment of the impact, before any change should be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1804	I won't say as much more than what's said in the case, but I guess the distance isn't as big between the majority and the minority here as it might sound like in the debate, when it comes to the problem. The Christian People's Party supports the majority, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. I'm not sure how the Minister of Culture would interpret it, but here we have found the most sensible. The reason why we've done that is because we have some opinions about how this should be solved, to put it like this. At the same time, it is such a complex area that, in fact, requires careful assessment in order to have a fair regulatory framework – it is difficult – a law that is as reasonable as possible and that does not seem to conflict. That is why we have joined the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which says that ‘an assessment of the possible consequences of possible changes is being carried out and the government is being asked to return to the Storing in an appropriate manner’. It has joined the Christian People's Party, and we hope that the Council of State and the Government will do so without going too far, and that we will be able to address these issues. Having said that, I would also like to say that we have a expectation that there will be changes in the legislation, because, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is not just the case, as the rapporteur said, that one understands that it can be "experienced as unreasonable" that one has to pay more contributions if the former partner goes down to 80 pst. in relation to parental leave. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is clearly unreasonable, and we believe that it has to change here, but it has to do a good job, so that we do not have to have that kind of debate after the government has come back to Stortinget with the review.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1813	In this case, proposals for legislative changes are made to ensure that a parent is not burdened financially in cases where the ex-partner chooses to be at home with reduced or no salary after having had a child with a new partner. The exemplification I have seen in the media, and also heard to a large extent here, is to illustrate the matter that father is the contributor, and mother is the one who has had new children with a new partner, and who is then the beneficiary. Here is the example that Father finds it unreasonable to have to pay more in contributions because his ex-partner goes down in income as a result of having a new child. Of course, there are also examples where this danger has children with new partners, and perhaps reduces income as a result. In this case, it could make reduced contributions to ex-partners as a result of his choice of new children. It is important that the matter be looked at from both sides when one first assesses this, which was also discussed by the representative Nilsson Ramsøy. As I understand this matter now, it's the revenue reduction of up to 20 pst. which is the subject of discussion, whether or not a judgement is then to be made. If there is a greater reduction, it is assessed whether this is reasonable or not. As many people have said before, there are many different reasons why parents go down in income equal to 20 p.m., of which care can be one of the reasons. Withdrawal of parental leave for one year is automatically a reduction of 20 p.m., reduced position in order to be able to pick up or follow up to the nursery or time-sleep can also be mentioned. There may well be a common child with the contributor who can be the basis for being in trouble. Changing jobs or continuing training may also result in a lower level of income reduction. This can happen without the choice of having new children with a new partner, but there is a reduction in income that can impose an increased obligation on the contributor. The assessment to be made in the Equality and Discrimination Study has also been taken up by representatives here. As I understand it, there are two provisions of the Income Reduction Code. One is an income reduction of up to 20 p.p. and whether it should be accepted for both contributors and beneficiaries irrespective of reason. The second concerns the reduction of income of more than 20 p.m. and whether it is to be accepted without further delay and whether there is a reasonable reason for the reduction of income. The case that has been considered falls – as I understand it – under the latter rule. In other words, the denominator has not evaluated the 20 pst rule, and that is what I feel we are discussing here today to a great extent. As the Council of State writes in its letter of reply, there may be good reasons both for and against maintaining the rule of the contribution law which accepts that both the beneficiary and the contributor have a reduction in income of up to 20 pst, irrespective of their cause. without determining the income. I fully agree with that, and I look forward to a case in which we can look at the different consequences this can have for both parties, and the reciprocity that this obviously must entail in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1828	Today, the size has proposals for legislative changes in the contributions legislation to ensure that a parent is not burdened financially in cases where the ex-partner chooses to be at home with reduced or no salary after having had a child with a new partner. Initially, I would like to refer to the letter to the Committee of 19 December 2011 and reiterate that from 1 January 2009 onwards, previous practices in which being at home with children under the age of three was a reasonable reason for having reduced or no income. Such cases are now assessed. This is in line with the intention of St.meld. No 19 for 2006-2007, Evaluation of new legislation on child contributions, to which the majority of the Stortinges joined, cf. Inner. S. No 185 for 2006-2007 — the intention of the representative Horne in his statement. The rule which accepts that both contributors and beneficiaries have a reduction in income of up to 20 pst. however, for whatever reason, without the income being assessed, it has not previously been subject to a specific assessment. In my opinion, there may be good reasons both for and against maintaining the rule, and it is therefore good that the majority of the Committee also wishes to assess possible consequences before any changes to the rules are made. As has been pointed out, child contributions are a matter of private law and the parties may agree to contribute between themselves without the involvement of the public. If the parties do not reach an agreement, they may ask the public to decide. The background to the general exemption from the discretionary determination of income reductions up to 20 p.m. must be seen in the context of limiting the requirements for the behaviour pattern that can be imposed on individuals by public authorities. If the government determines the contribution, parents must be able to make maritime choices within reasonable limits — that is the starting point for that rule. The freedom of choice of parents within the given framework applies to all, regardless of the type of choice and without any further assessment. Some of these options could increase the ability to acquire, others could not. The importance of non-discrimination and regulatory consistency and the assessment of individual elements without an overall assessment could have adverse and/or undesirable consequences. Rehabilitation and childbirth are common after a break in life, and in the case of a grant assessment — that is to say, the person paying child contributions when assessing his ability to pay — it is taken for example. consideration of the contributors, i.e. this person who pays contributions, new children, so as to ensure that they too are dependant. If the starting point is that the individual parent with the new partner is the closest to carrying the economic consequences of new children, I believe this must also apply to these children. There has to be symmetry and reciprocity here. Such a result would in that case mean that, in the context of contributions, there would in reality be no possibility of taking care of new children in any context, and there would be more rigid legislation. It may be desirable, but in that case I would like to be thoroughly evaluated. It is difficult to avoid the mutual impact of mother’s and father’s dispositions on the distribution of the child’s costs as long as they have a common responsibility for the care. However, the fact that parents have freedom of action equal to a 20 p.m. reduction in income signals that the parents must to some extent accept the other’s dispositions when they are no longer part of the same household. This may help to increase the tolerance between parents of individual choice and thus also to mitigate conflict. But it is clear, it can also be a source of conflict. In the light of the vote and the debate here today, I would also like to initiate a review of this 20 pst. rule, which was therefore not considered – let me stress it. The following was a rule that was changed from 1 January 2009 – it was an old case in which the Stortinget had agreed that we should change the legislation. In addition, we have now been in dialogue with Nav to ensure that their systems are also sufficiently up-to-date. It's all right now. So it's going to be okay. What we are discussing is this 20 p.m. rule – which gives some flexibility and freedom of choice to parents. At least I can assure the representative Horne that the Council of State is perfectly capable of assessing the policy in this regard. The point is that this is not easy and that it is about taking care of children both in the household of the contributor and in the household of the contributor. My starting point is at least – and I will insist – that any change to the legislation must apply to both parties. It would be grossly unreasonable whether the beneficiary should be the only person who cannot make changes or cannot take into account any new children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1851	As the Council of State was in it, this is a complicated and difficult matter. Often these percentages overshadow what's the matter. The intention of the Progress Party proposal was that of course it should apply to both parties. It shall be such that if a party voluntarily chooses to reduce the position due to new children, the ex-partner shall not suffer financially for this. We have now had a debate on that. I am very happy that several people say that they are looking forward to this change, and that they expect a change to be made. So does the Progress Party. My question to the Council of State becomes simple: Why has this not been followed up before, and when has the Council of State thought that this should be followed up, so that we get a law that was the intention of Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1858	What the Storting was concerned about was the practice of accepting without further delay that being at home with young children under the age of three, in itself, was a reasonable reason to have a reduction in income beyond 20 pst. That's what we changed on 1 January 2009. The matter that was assessed by the company was just about this, because it was a matter that mattered a time before 1 January 2009. We've changed that and cleaned it up. So the question is whether we should not have any flexibility at all, whether it should not be possible to go into a reduced position by 20 pst. or take out 80 pst. Legacy, e.g. I must challenge the representative Horne on this with a contribution assessment. Today, an assessment of the contributor’s ability to pay contributions is being made. If he/she has had a new child in a new relationship, he/she will record it. Thus, the person may pay less in contributions, precisely as a result of having a child in a new relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1865	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1870	I wish we could see a powerful government in this matter, as the government seemed when it wanted to ban advertising for Captain Sabeltan ice cream and Happy Meal. Now, I guess Captain Sabeltan will end up in a freezer that's black painted. This is a matter that triggers reactions on my part, on the Advancement Party and on many. A decision in Nav that a man’s child contribution increased because the ex-boyfriend had a new child with a new partner is obviously unfair. I have understood that there are more people here in the Chamber who also think, so here the Minister should take action, act quickly and be able to act. Some policymakers have been out in the media with this. In the media, Arild Stokkan-Grande also thinks that this case seems unfair. But now, according to his article, he has changed his position. I'm sure it's all right when talking between the parties, the answer was from Stokkan-Grande. So we want a powerful Stokkan-Grande, in the same way that we saw in the media when he got a look at this. The size has been aware of this injustice and has, for the most part, instructed the Council of State and the Ministry to change practice. According to this case, it may appear that the department has not implemented changes and is opposed. What's the reason for that? Governments have to sort things out if there's someone in the department who's fighting it. Former Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Lysbakken, had no intention of changing anything. The Council of State states to the media that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has assessed current practice and concludes that it is contrary to the Equality Act and that it discriminates against men. Now it is well time that someone in this room also stands up for men, and the head of the Men's Role Committee, Stokkan-Grande, should probably have taken on that role. The Ministry has filed an appeal on the subject of equality and discrimination, and the case is not yet settled – and it takes time. The Ministry cannot comment on the matter because it is still under consideration. The thing is special: it's the way SV fights against change in practice despite the fact that the Storting has clear opinions about this. It triggers strong reactions. It seems that the Council of State is shadowy and hiding behind the Department's information department – that's who we hear from – and the bureaucrats there. More than a year has now passed since the Decision of the LDO on Equal Opportunities and Discrimination Ombudsman. With the information provided in this case, the Council of State should instruct without delay to amend practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1885	That's how sometimes some of the most unpleasant things you encounter in politics can be to get your own statements quoted. In this case, I feel that it is going to be very strange to come forward with my statements, which I actually think were very good, and which I am still fully committed to. These quotations concerned this specific matter that was discussed in the media, which – for Ib Thomsen’s information – has been dealt with in the following. The denominator has now concluded that this is going to fall out of discretion, so this concrete question has found its solution. The Council of State has also told us from this interlocutory how it has followed up on this point, for example. Nav and ensure that this will not happen in the future. So the result of the reading of the quotes was really very nice for me. It's good to hear their own words being read up by others. So the question is, what about revenue reduction up to 20 pst.? There may be many different reasons why you choose to go down in the position by up to 20 pst. We have raised several reasons, both in the letters of the Council of State and from this pulpit. It may be that one has both the point of view of keeping the current legislation and the point of view of keeping it. There may also be differing views as to the reasons why you should go into a position. Personally, I believe that when the reason for going down to 80 pst. The position of being at home alone with new children in a new relationship may be unfair to the ex-partner. But when, for example, for income reduction to study, move or get a new job, there may be good reasons for keeping current legislation and for determining the contribution. That is why we think it makes sense that the Council of States is going through the consequences of any changes to the legislation, and then we get a new debate in the Grand Duchy on that issue. I think we're not as disagreeable as we might seem from this pulpit, but it's not just this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1892	It's a little hard to understand whether the opposition, and especially the representative Ib Thomsen, misunderstands on purpose, or whether one actually misunderstands. This is complicated, so I can in and of itself understand it if it's a de facto misunderstanding. But at least the point is that what the denominator has assessed, and that the representative Thomsen is asking for action in relation to, we did something about it already on 1 January 2009. So practice has been partly unclear from Nav's side, and we have corrected it. We have written letters to Nav, and it is now a very clear practice that Nav should follow, which is about cases where you reduce the position beyond 20 pst. So now let's put that ball dead and discuss whether we're going to have a code that doesn't add up to flexibility at all, and now I'm going to ask the representative Ib Thomsen to listen carefully: if you want a completely rigid code against the contributor, yes, then I believe that then the Progress Party and the Right must make it clear that it will also apply to the contributor. The representative Horne was concerned about this, but he did not answer my question about whether it should also apply when assessing the contribution, which today takes into account any new children in a new relationship, precisely because it can be important to ensure that contributors have a good enough opportunity to support all their children. Therefore, this is a regulatory framework that should initially take into account children, not gender equality between parents. It's kids' best that's the starting point here, and I think we need to get a proper assessment of that, so we don't make changes that actually affect children. As has also been said, there are many reasons why you can choose to reduce by 20 pst. It doesn't have to be new children. But what is quite clear is that in the legislation today you have the right to take out 80 pst. custody beds, so that you can stay at home for a year. For many people it would be that if that rule falls away from them, in those cases where you've divorced, it would be problematic for many because they don't want to have kindergarten space in the meantime. For some it may be that they have to be at home with the child without income, with the result that the contribution to the contributor is increased – that is, completely without the intention of the proposers in this room. This is complicated, and that's why it's important to get into it carefully. In particular, I would recommend the Progress Party – and in particular the representative Thomsen – to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1908	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1922	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1931	It is an important issue The Stortinget today will discuss, which concerns children in kindergarten in particular, the safety of Norwegian parents, but also employees in Norwegian kindergartens to a very large extent. From 1 January 2011, the municipalities assumed the financial responsibility for the kindergartens. This government is at the same time in the process of stepping up the equal treatment of private kindergartens in relation to the grant to public kindergartens. This is a large sector, it is about a lot of money, and in this way it is also a very important responsibility for us on the part of Stortinget to manage the money in the best possible way. Therefore, this proposal proposes that the money given to Norwegian kindergartens should benefit the children, and allows municipalities to apply financial penalties where the municipal grant and parental payment are not used in accordance with the intention and purpose set out in the Children's Homes Act. This is no surprise for anyone, it has been working for a long time, and it has also been announced for a long time in large-scale documents. Despite the fact that the vast majority of kindergarten owners work well, run sensibly and plentifully return to kindergartens for operation and quality development, there are also some actors who have seen that this is a sector where there are good opportunities to make large amounts of money. Therefore, the proposals in the proposition are not something that has been found by the red-green parties to be necessary, it comes as a result that someone has taken advantage of the system and put community money in their pockets instead of spending it on their children. Of course, we cannot accept this. By demanding that the money benefit the children, there will be little change for those who are good owners, and there will be less opportunities for the cynical owners. We also know that there are some significant wage differences in the sector. Our objective is that increased transfers to the private should also be reflected in the pay and working conditions of the employees. We remember that the Swedish Private Barnehage National Association, in alliance with the Federation of Education and the Trade Union, stood on the barricades and demanded equivalent grants between private and public kindergartens, precisely because it was to ensure equivalent pay and working conditions. Finally, I would like to make a little visit to the opposition's comments in this document. There have been repeated proposals from opposition parties to promote quality work in Norwegian kindergartens. It's positive. But when we come up with a proposal that will really work, which we know is aimed at improving quality, to ensure that the money benefits the children, and to improve pay and working conditions, it is suddenly an improper pressure on Norwegian kindergartens and a mistrust of Norwegian kindergarten owners. Clearly, the opposition lives very well with employees in some private kindergartens being significantly lower than employees in public kindergartens. Obviously, some kindergarten owners are also very well aware of the fact that they make large-scale dividends, either in the form of clean money or in the form of cunning transactions. I have to say that I wonder why not the Right Party and the Advance Party are more concerned about what taxpayers' money spend on, when we know that this can contribute to better quality for the children, better pay and working conditions for the employees, and we can avoid wasting the community's resources by putting it in private pockets. Why is the opposition not more concerned with what Norwegian taxpayers are involved in financing? I must say that I hope this debate gives an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1946	I have to say that I was surprised to hear the case rapporteur's argument in this case, because he spoke as if all the private kindergartens in this country are large companies that take great dividends and stick it in their own pocket. I would like to remind the case rapporteur that most private kindergartens in this country are small single businesses, small entrepreneurs and sole proprietorships that are able to go around so far, and if there is a little profit, they use it on the children, they might use it to create more places, and they put the money into their own business. If it hadn't been for the private kindergartens, we wouldn't have been there today. We have almost full babysitting. In fact, private kindergartens deserve a great deal of gratitude for the efforts they have made in recent years to contribute to the fact that we have a babysitting in Norway that the rest of Europe can only dream of. But the private kindergartens have great challenges. When the kindergarten agreement came, it was about getting 100 pst. equivalent financing, but this government has only managed to reach 92 pst. What they have done, and of which the Progress Party has been opposed, is to transfer that funding to local councillors. After that decision, we have seen major differences: we have seen that private kindergartens are struggling with predictability, and they have reduced their income. The matter that we have to deal with today came because it was someone who put money in their own pocket. But most are, as I said earlier, private entrepreneurs and sole proprietorships. When this case was notified, there was great concern not only among the opposition, but also in the private kindergartens. Now the matter was not so very bad, and it was probably because the Council of State thought and realized that it was too bad to put such strong leadership on the private kindergartens. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will vote against. We believe that it works well as it is today. We believe – we know – that the money that the private kindergartens get goes to the children. The question of what is meant by a reasonable profit is something that you can only interpret. Documentation requirements are set for private kindergartens, but no documentation is required for municipal kindergartens. Is there anyone who is absolutely sure that all the municipal kindergartens are running for the best of the child, and to ensure the best quality for children? But it's like you're just going out against the private. In this respect, the Progress Party believes that we must make demands on everyone. It should be equal to accounting. Municipalities are very simple because they can take both pension costs and maintenance from other municipal budgets — unlike private ones, which cannot. There has also been a matter in the media now that the private kindergartens are at risk of having to return money because it turns out that the municipal authorities have spent less money than they have budgeted, which in turn leads to poor predictability for the private. It's with this case made a big bureaucracy. The local authorities do not have the necessary competence today, and I cannot see that there is anything extra added to it. The Progress Party is also concerned about the dual role of the municipality as a supervisory authority and as a kindergarten owner. Today, as I said, funding is 92 p.m. The progress party had hoped that the government at least in the autumn had managed to get up to 100 p.m. in order to establish a safe, equivalent treatment of private kindergartens in relation to municipal authorities. The Progress Party also hopes that the Council and the government will look at the funding solution – if they can be transferred back to the state again, so that the private kindergartens can have money paid per child they have in the nursery. The party wants peace and predictability for the private kindergartens. We want to support them, so we can put in more babysitting places. We need the private kindergartens to pull the load, and we don't have to do more bureaucracy and more work for the private kindergartens. That is why we want to put forward the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1967	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1970	The right does not understand why the government now has to push through new rules for the regulation of private kindergartens, when it itself has notified major changes to the Children's Gardens Act with the Øie Committee's "Best for Children" investigation. Private kindergartens have a large part of the credit for the diversity and innovation we see today in the kindergarten sector. It is therefore worrying, from the Right's point of view, that it is now perceived that we have a government with fundamental mistrust of private ownership in the kindergarten sector and the view that money in the nursery sector, in private kindergartens, does not benefit children. Without private kindergartens, the government had never been able to meet the children's hail. It is a pity that the thanks they now get from the government are distrust, suspicion, more bureaucracy, more control and increased costs. It is young people who suffer when private nursery officials now have to spend so much more time on forms, control, reporting and bureaucracy, rather than following employees and not least young people. In its opinion, the Central Statistical Office pointed out that the government’s proposals would make monitoring, processing, monitoring and publication of results difficult. Private kindergartens must have been accepted by society for the use of public funds in their operation. Today, private individuals operate many places more reasonably than municipal kindergartens, and repeated parental surveys show that parents are more satisfied with private kindergartens. Municipalities may, under current rules, impose reasonable and relevant operating conditions, even if the government incorrectly writes otherwise in the proposal submitted to the Stortinget. According to today's regulations, the municipality may reduce grants to private kindergartens if the staff is too low, or the owner has taken unfair dividends or compensation. The government itself has a general impression that the private kindergartens operate well, and that the owners are engaged in providing a good quality offer to the children. That's what the government says. Nevertheless, the reinforced documentation requirements are introduced for all private actors. The right considers that there may be a need to strengthen legislation on certain points, but that need should be balanced so as to avoid unnecessary bureaucratic rules. When the Right asks the Government whether it is useful for society to impose more stringent auditing rules on private children than on other traders, they answer that the control measures are free of significant costs. It is good that the Minister of Knowledge sends out newsletters with Kristin’s math tips, but this proposal introduces a regime that imposes significant costs on private children for auditing, which other traders are now releasing from the government’s proposal. On the right, we believe that we should use the Community's resources more effectively than carrying out unnecessary checks on law-abiding traders. The government also writes that unfair dividend payments are only a problem in individual cases, and when we in the Right ask if they can quantify the extent of the problem, you have no chance of doing so. They refer to a report commissioned by Telemarksforschung, which confirms that most private kindergartens operate well and are loyal to their purpose when using grant funds. The government believes that the report provides indications of a potential for hidden withdrawals of values, but at the same time writes that it is not possible to say with certainty how many cases of unreasonable withdrawals one will be able to prevent with this proposal. The government's report combines completely different accounting concepts, such as profits, dividends and wages and salaries of the owner. On the right, it is unreasonable that the government now chooses to exempt small firms from audit obligations, but introduces extended audit rules and a completely new control regime for all private kindergartens. Right is for control. Right wants control, also by the private kindergartens. But the most important thing to control in kindergarten is kids, that it's good kindergarten, and that kindergarten does the best for kids. The government now assesses that the local government sector has sufficient financial and legal competence to manage the legislative proposal. This is very poor with the letter of consultation from the County Council of Rogaland, which points out that the few municipalities have the competence to manage today’s grant measure or the new proposed control regime. With today's rules, municipalities already have difficulties in comparing their own accounting figures, which are set up in accordance with public accounting rules, with the accounts of private kindergartens, which have been issued in accordance with private accounting rules. That's why the Right is very concerned that this regime will lead to a lot more bureaucracy, and that it will affect the kids in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e1993	That's about. 54 pst. of all approved kindergartens which are non-municipal with requirements for equivalent financing to the corresponding municipal kindergartens. We recognize, of course, that it has been very important with these private kindergartens to fulfill the nursery arrangement, and that we had not had full babysitting without a large proportion of private kindergartens. This does not mean, however, that there is no need for legislation criticising the benefit of children in kindergarten and not for private wealth building. It is precisely this which is the essence of these proposals for amendments to the Kindergarten Act. Although there are a large number of private – most private – individuals who do not make large profits and ensure that the money benefits their children, I believe that it is necessary to have a law that ensures this, and that we can then prevent a few from using the profits for their own gain and can achieve a large private wealth building. At least it's not the intention to have private kindergartens. This type of rule is not new. We'll find it, for example. for primary private schools and private colleges. Nor is it possible to keep profits within the framework of the new legal provision, but this can only happen if the accounts show that the funds have been used correctly, i.e. they are related to kindergarten. We see, for example: some kindergartens use parts of the surplus to improve the outdoor area and so on. You should still be able to do that, because it's going to benefit your children. More specifically, it means that profits can be retained if all the costs in the accounts are child care-related and all related transactions do not exceed market prices, e.g. internal invoicing of rents, whose personnel costs per full-time job are not significantly lower than those of the municipality’s own kindergartens, and – as the representative Stokkan-Grande was also involved – if this ensures the working conditions of employees. The legislative amendments provide for access for municipalities to financial control and economic means of reaction where grants and parental payments are not used in accordance with the legal requirement. Provision is made for supplementary rules to be laid down in rules on accounting, auditing and reporting requirements. These rules will facilitate financial control by the municipality. The representative of Hofstad Helleland believes this will lead to a lot of time use and a lot of bureaucracy for the private kindergartens. Even I'm not very worried about it. There is something to be documented and reported, and as I understand it, it is also possible for the smallest kindergartens to be exempted from some of these rules. The proposal for legislative changes has been consulted, and the Ministry received 100 consultation replies, with general support for the proposals. The consultation on a new funding system also presented a proposal to regulate the extraction of values from the kindergarten sector. This proposal was postponed at the time as a result of a number of relevant input from the hearing bodies, but now we have received a proposal that clearly has a broad dissension and which has had very few objections in the hearings that have been held. I hope that the proposal that is before us today will be widely supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2012	On 1 January 2011, municipalities were given the overall responsibility to finance all kindergartens, both their own municipal kindergartens and non-municipal kindergartens. That added 28 billion. kr in the framework grant to municipalities to finance it. The government is now aiming to step up the municipal grant to non-municipal kindergartens over the next few years to achieve the same level of funding for the non-municipal kindergartens that we have for the municipal kindergartens. The State budget for 2012 proposes to increase the minimum municipal contribution to non-municipal kindergartens to 92 pst. The proposal we are discussing here today ensures that municipal grants and parental payments in non-municipal kindergartens benefit young people. The proposal also allows municipalities to apply financial penalties where the municipal grant and parental benefit are not used in line with the intention and purpose of the childcare law. Dividend payments have not been significant today, assessed in relation to the size of the nursery sector, but in some cases we have seen that there has been a problem. In the media, a number of cases focus on issues where private kindergarten owners abuse today’s funding system to achieve personal gain. This bill is not an attack on private kindergartens. However, when the representative from the Right compares private kindergartens with sole proprietors in general, this becomes a bit special, because the sole proprietor generally does not receive government grants. That's the background for the whole case. And the Right Party, which is committed to using society's resources and taxpayers' money in a more efficient way, should be concerned that the money is just being spent on what is intended, namely the best of the child and the best of running a good kindergarten. Then it is strange that you choose to compare it with private traders in general, as this is actually about using taxpayers' money. I believe that very many non-communal kindergartens operate very well, and that the owners are genuinely concerned about giving a good offer to the kids – and an offer of high quality. The proposals ensure that this will continue in the future, while facilitating that non-municipal kindergarten owners can continue to operate commercially in the future. Through the legislative proposal, the government ensures that the kindergarten sector will continue to be composed of serious actors to use public funds and parental payments for the operation of high-quality kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2027	Kindergartens are an important part of many young people's lives. For students under school age — at least for many of them — kindergarten is the most important arena outside the home and family. For families, kindergartens are also an important part of the freedom of choice to do well for the family and for the young. Without good babysitting, we also have no freedom of choice for young children’s parents. That's why the quality of kindergartens is very basic, and we're talking about the quality of all kindergartens, both private and municipal. The Christian People's Party has been and is open to regulate dividends in non-municipal kindergartens. However, we were strongly critical of the first draft consultation that came – it was probably two years ago – for the regulation of kindergartens. The proposal that the government finally ended up with is very different from that. It could be tempting to make a political point out of it. Rather, I choose to give honor to the Council of State for listening to the criticism, taking a step back and returning with a proposal that looks completely different. We all too often experience that there is a high degree of achievement in this type of proposal when there are strong debates. So it should definitely be noted that it was positive that the government could listen to the objections in a consultation round and change the course. The proposal we are considering today is much better. However, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal for the regulation of dividends that is currently in the proposition. I'll explain. Firstly, we ask questions about the great discretion that the proposal leaves to the municipalities. We see that there will be great uncertainty about how this is being practiced against the private kindergartens. This poses major challenges for municipalities and the private kindergartens are uncertain about their framework conditions. We also see that a significant effort needs to be made in the municipalities to do the control job that these people get trapped, and we ask questions about whether the problem we are discussing is so big that it defends the effort that needs to be put in. Secondly, we have a separate selection that has presented a NOU with a review of the Kindergarten Act and kindergarten policy, and we expect the government to present a complete case to the Stortingen on kindergarten policy in its extension. There will be a good opportunity to discuss kindergarten policy as a whole and the policy towards private kindergartens, the ability to impose quality requirements on kindergartens and to see the whole business in the context. The Christian People's Party then wants an overall assessment, where we see the regulation of dividends in the context of the quality requirements we can impose in a new kindergarten legislation. With good quality requirements and a maximum price, what a private nursery owner can take from dividends is limited. But that question we want to see in a complete way about it, and then we'll see what we land on. The private have made an important contribution to our good coverage of kindergartens that we have today, and to our good quality in kindergartens that we have today. It is a pity, therefore, that we have not been able to offer private kindergartens more predictable funding. It's a big challenge when we talk about going up to 92 pst. financing of private kindergartens as a minimum — there are major challenges when it is so difficult to calculate what 100 pst. Is. Private kindergartens report problems in calculating pensions, wages, temporary allowances, etc. in its calculation — compared to the costs of municipal kindergartens. That is why the Christian People's Party has also made proposals to ensure predictable, fair and real funding for private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2040	There have been major changes and a massive expansion of kindergartens in recent years, and the kindergarten sector is now a very large sector, which is trading for approx. 40 B.C.E. kr annually. In 2010, almost 90 pst went. of all children aged 1 to 5 years in kindergarten, and 3 500 of the kindergartens are private. Figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that owners of ordinary non-municipal kindergartens took out 43.9 million. SEK in dividends in 2010, while owners of private family farms raised SEK 126.6 million. kr from the establishment. There are not large, deterrent figures for an enterprise that in total consists of approx. 40 B.C.E. So half is private. Telemark research has explored the possibilities for profit and withdrawal of values among private kindergartens, and a picture is drawn of a sector where the non-municipal kindergartens are mainly well run and are loyal to the purpose of using funds. But at the same time, there are some indications that today there is a relatively high potential for hidden withdrawals of values. The reason why we're presenting this case is to make sure that there's still a high political commitment to liberalizing money for private kindergartens, so that they can run good quality kindergartens. There will not be so many examples around the community that private individuals make large profits, until you can start questioning whether this is money that benefits your children. That is the background to today's proposal for regulation, that is to ensure legitimacy around all the public crowns that are now going to ensure good quality children's gardens. It's true that someone has been talking about here, that we have had one proposal at the hearing, where there were some relevant counter-conceptions. That is why we have now put forward a new proposal for Stortinget, which has a different logic in its structure. In this proposal, we do not go according to what is dividends or not dividends, but we promise that government grants and parental payments will benefit children in kindergarten. It is a very important principle that is now very clear in the law. We have other areas within the Ministry of Knowledge that have the same kind of principle. At the same time as the legislative proposal presented regulates the use of government grants and parental payments in non-municipal kindergartens, it ensures that municipalities have access to financial penalties where the municipal grant and parental payment are not used in accordance with the intention and purpose set out in the Children's Hospital Act. The bill ensures that the kindergarten sector will continue to have serious actors who want to use public funds and parental payments for the operation of high-quality kindergartens. In the context of the new legal provision, profits may be retained, provided that the accounts of the non-municipal kindergartens show that the funds have been used in accordance with the purpose. In the design of new legislation, the following principles have been central: The appropriations for kindergartens shall be granted to the children. They should not go to private property construction. The expectations of kindergarten owners must be clear through clear rules. New rules must ensure the legitimacy of the sector over time. We must give a clear signal to all actors that private kindergartens in Norway are too serious players who want to run good kindergartens. In order to ensure a clear regulatory framework, the same accounting reporting rules are important for all kindergartens. The legislation must apply to all non-municipal kindergartens, although there are very many different types of company. What we are now doing in concrete terms is: to introduce a purpose paragraph to require accounting and reporting requirements in line with the Accounting Act to require documentation of internal transactions to be subject to audit clearance. As far as the sum of these proposals is concerned, I am very pleased that the hearing bodies have accepted them so well, that there is no one dramatizing what kind of extra work this is going to be for kindergartens, and that KS and a lot of municipalities say that this is a good code that they can practice. I believe that these are rules that will ensure the digestion of the private kindergartens in the future, and that will prevent us from getting many examples of large profits, which could undermine the emergence of a predominantly serious industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2091	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2095	The government has managed to get up to 92 pst. non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. The private kindergartens need predictability, so they need 92 pst. of the municipal kindergartens. But now the undersigned has become aware that some private kindergartens in some municipalities have to pay back 2.7 million. kr after the accounting figures for municipal kindergartens show a cheaper operation than budgeted. Then the council may say that it is good that the municipal kindergartens have also managed to save money, but that then gives unforeseeableness to the private kindergartens. What becomes my question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State considers it reasonable for non-municipal kindergartens to receive a claim for reimbursement of the government grant if municipal kindergartens in the accounts receive a lower level of costs than provided for in the budget and the allocations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2102	In integrating the earmarked grants into the municipality’s framework funding, we have had a comprehensive process with the private kindergartens to ensure predictable framework conditions for them. There is now good contact between the KS and the PBL, and we have even supported the Ministry of Knowledge on the work that the PBL has done to get an overview of how the private kindergartens have been treated by different municipalities. My clear impression is that it is a relatively extensive work for the municipalities to ensure good framework conditions for the private sector, but that things are getting better and better. Then we've assumed what is the cost of the municipal operation. If there have been any mistakes, or if there are great surprises as to how the funding has been, it is not unreasonable to have a dialogue with the private kindergartens about it. But I don't want to go in and comment on single examples in this context. My hope is that we will have a good cooperation between the PBL and the KS, so that we can ensure a good financing of the private kindergartens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2109	I thank you for the articles of the Council of State. There was a lot of sense there, which it was good to hear. Now this long discussion we have had on this very topic has led to some uncertainty for the private kindergartens, and my first question is then: When we have an approx. 50/50 distribution between children in municipal and non-municipal kindergartens is there a distribution with which the Council of State is satisfied, or do you want a smaller element of private kindergartens over time? The second question is: what will the Council of State do to address all the problems that private kindergartens are experiencing today in calculating the right grants in municipalities, linked to the fact that there are so many problems in finding a reasonable and correct cost base for municipal kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2116	We are totally dependent on the private kindergartens to ensure an offer of kindergarten to all the children in Norway who have the right to do so. The vast majority of private kindergartens are really and seriously run and do not take extensive dividends. On the contrary, they are busy running good quality kindergartens. It is therefore also interesting that many private actors in the kindergarten sector support this proposal. I think they do because they see that if you create good framework conditions for the serious actors, it'll also be easier to defend almost 15 billion. kr in transfers to private kindergartens. They also see that they themselves are the ones that are primarily exposed if there were to be examples of some unprofessional actors taking huge dividends, because then a lot of people would question all the heads that go to the private kindergartens. So this is a proposal that will ring around the private serious actors in the kindergarten sector. I'm very pleased with that, because we need them, and they provide good kindergarten services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2121	There are several in the hearing opinions that point out that there are many municipalities that will have problems with competence in their municipal administration and to have conditions to deal with the grant assessment or the control regime. We know that EEA law operates, among other things. with ‘reasonable profit’. They have a good definition that lies in the concept. I know that many municipalities also wonder what the government means by significant dividends. Can the Minister of Knowledge say what she puts into the concept, and how the municipalities should perceive what significant dividends are and are not?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2126	I am quite amazed at the opposition in this matter. On the right, the position is that there should be a ban on dividends from private schools. But now when we put a simpler code around the private kindergartens, you're just looking for a lot of excuses for not going into that discussion. So this is a code that KS believes is appropriate, which is not mandatory for municipalities to use, but which they can use if they see, for example, that they are not required to use. have some private actors in their municipality that charge unbleached dividends. So it's right that they should be denied. For what would have been the situation if we didn't do this was that municipal politicians around some municipalities might have provided some examples of violent private dividends without being able to intervene at all, and there's money that they would get from the municipality. That's not wise, because we need to ring around serious private kindergartens that provide good services to our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2131	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2136	I agree with the Council of State, we must get rid of the unprofessional kindergartens. There are challenges for parental kindergartens, there are challenges for private kindergartens, and there are also challenges for local authorities. We're going to have good quality kindergartens, but we're also going to have a check on all kindergartens, both private, parental and municipal kindergartens. We need to have the quality of those who look after our children, who care for our children when we're at work. We need predictability. But the leading point in most grant cases is the documentation provided by municipalities. The evidence is often very deficient and inefficient to check whether all costs have been included in the calculation basis – a challenge. All costs not included lead to lower contributions to private kindergartens. That private kindergartens receive only 90-91 pst. of the municipal operating grant, which everyone knows. Private kindergartens have revealed that municipalities owe millions of private kindergartens around Norway. Who's wondering who, and who's wondering away money? Yes, that's something we need to get checked, because we need to have quality. But the thing is that in e.g. Sørum municipality in Akershus does not get 91 pst. Once – they are far below. So the error is in the accounts – the error is in a discrimination in the accounts. Municipal kindergartens are renting households under capital costs, e.g., which is not, while private households have it as operating costs. Already there is a bias that it should and can be cleared up with simple grips. It goes without saying that the grant to the private is going to be much lower than 91 pst. where the rent for municipal kindergartens is not included when the operating grant for the private is to be calculated. Until last year, it was possible for the private, for example in the municipality of Sørum, to apply for additional grants to offset this difference. But it was during the campaign. That practice was all agreed on then, but as I said it was during the election campaign, and now you are back to old practice. It is this struggle that will ultimately suffocate the private and parental kindergartens. In several parent-run kindergartens, parents have to spend time arguing with municipalities about getting money they are entitled to. It's unfortunate. We have to treat the municipal and private kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. The documentation must then be the same for municipal and private kindergartens and we must check all kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2149	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2163	The Ministry of Justice is adding to Prop. 95 L for 2011-2012 submit proposals for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. The Ministry proposes to amend Section 84 of the Foreign Affairs Act to allow the foreign authorities to obtain information about applicants or others covered by the Act directly from public bodies. The Ministry further proposes in a new section 84 A that the foreign authorities can process and reuse personal data, including sensitive personal data. Where a government agency has information about someone’s personal circumstances, the starting point is that this information is tacit, unless otherwise specified or clearly provided for by law. However, the proposal refers to the fact that the exchange of such information between public bodies can contribute to more rational treatment and thus reduce the length of proceedings. Shorter processing time is a gain both for society in general and for the individual user in particular. It should be noted in the case that the proposal at the same time involves better service for the user who does not submit the same information several times, or has to himself obtain information from one public body, in order to pass this information on to another. The proposal will also provide better assurance that the management uses correct information. The Ministry notes that in some situations it may be in the interests of the user to withhold information or to provide incorrect information to the non-resident administration in order to obtain goods or to avoid penalties. It is also pointed out that control is in favour of the autonomy of the foreign administration to obtain such information directly from another public body. As regards the objections raised by the Redd Barna, Jussbuss and MiRA Centre that the proposal should not be implemented because it involves major privacy interference and violates privacy and legal certainty, the Ministry considers that the benefits of the proposal outweigh those disadvantages, which the Committee unanimously supports. The European Convention on Human Rights Article 8 provides for protection against disclosure to unauthorised persons. In order for intervention in that right to be justified, certain conditions must be fulfilled. Firstly, it is necessary to decide whether the exchange of current information would at all involve an intervention in the individual's right to privacy, and if the exchange of information involves such an intervention, the intervention must be justified. It is pointed out in the proposition that, in line with the proposal, obtaining information would involve varying degrees of interference with the individual’s right to privacy. To the extent that the procurement involves a private intervention, the question of whether the conditions laid down in Article 8 of the ECHR are fulfilled. Firstly, the intervention must be justified by the objectives set out in that provision. The information collection is justified by the desire for the most effective regulation of who has resided in the territory of the country and by ensuring that this is done on the basis of correct information. Regulation of who has resided in the territory of the State is a fundamental and generally accepted right of the State. A fundamental objective of the foreign legislation is to ensure national security, public security and the economic well-being of the country and to prevent disorder or crime. It is pointed out in the proposition that the proposed information collection thus meets this condition. Data obtained for the treatment of a foreign matter will always have a dual purpose: it will both confer an advantage on the data subject through a residence permit and it will verify that he will not pose a social hazard. The proposition refers to the fact that the same information is later used in a case to assess flight safety in case of return. The need for information will therefore be covered by the original purpose of treatment, namely to control societal hazards. The re-use is in a close and natural context with UDI’s operations, in the sense that the assessment of aviation safety is usually carried out as part of the implementation of a decision to refuse an application for a residence permit, as UDI has previously taken. Furthermore, the re-use of information does not require greater data quality than its original use, as it would generally be more invasive to be refused a residence permit in Norway than to be refused to return without police support on the aircraft. On this basis, the Ministry considers that the re-use will not be incompatible with the original purpose of collection, cf. personal data law. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee has assessed the content of Prop. 95 L for 2011-2012 and is unanimous in agreeing to amendments to the Law of 15 May 2008 No 35 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2193	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 9 and 10 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2220	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign out in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2231	The climate challenge, together with hunger and poverty, is one of the greatest challenges facing the world. They're hanging out. If the world's poor are to be lifted out of hunger and poverty, large amounts of energy are to be needed, energy that today's technology will result in even greater greenhouse gas emissions. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes it is necessary to cut global greenhouse gas emissions by 50-85 pst. by 2050. But only in the next 20 years will the world's energy consumption increase by 50 pst. Countries outside the OECD will provide more than 90 pst. of that increase. Still, over a billion people in the world will live without electricity in 20 years. Today there are 1.4 billion people – more than 20 pst. by earth’s population — living without access to electricity. 2.7 billion people depend on traditional wood and other biomass combustion to make food. World Health Organization figures show that 1.6 million people die every year as a result of lung and breathing problems caused by cooking over open fire, mostly women and children. More than the deaths are caused by malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. The availability of electricity is therefore the main prerequisite for raising the world's poor to a level of prosperity that is approaching us. At the same time, we need technological quantum leaps to realise the low-carbon society by 2050, and the rich part of the world needs to show developing countries that it is possible to combine high living standards with low emissions. The fundamental challenge in climate policy is market failure, or the fact that it is too cheap to pollute and too expensive to be environmentally friendly compared to the likely costs climate change will impose on us. The climate challenge is global. Therefore, this issue is best addressed by using a global pricing mechanism, such as: an allowance market in which all countries undertake. Unfortunately, there seems to be a long way to go before we achieve this, and it remains to be seen whether the promise of the UN Climate Change Conference in Durban to a global agreement from 2020 is actually being implemented. In the meantime, Norway needs to use other instruments that contribute to national emission reductions without increasing global emissions. Norway is currently linked to the European ETS market and, from 2013, approximately half of Norwegian emissions will be subject to a ETS obligation. This is an effective tool for reducing emissions in the sectors involved. For those sectors which are not subject to a quota obligation and are therefore not subject to competition, we are freer to implement any specialnormous measures without risk of carbon leakage. Norway is well placed to contribute to the fight against global climate change. We have technology, competence and capital to make a difference. The Technology Development Fund is one of the main instruments in the government’s climate communication. The decision of the majority suggests that the fund should be fully financed as early as 2016. The Fund shall contribute to the development and implementation of new and immature technologies. This will contribute to both research and development, which can in the long term make a major difference both at home and abroad. Norwegian industry is the only sector in Norway that has contributed significant emissions reductions over the past 20 years. Hopefully, the Technology Development Fund will enable them to do even more while enhancing competitiveness. It is an overall committee that underlines the importance of the Norwegian industry remaining in Norway. Norwegian industry is the world leader in environmentally friendly production. No one has been served to introduce framework conditions for industry to move from environmentally friendly hydropower to gas or coal on other continents. It is therefore essential that we contribute to making industry even more competitive and environmentally friendly. The Technology Development Fund will be able to contribute to this. If we are to realise the low-carbon society, it is essential that we succeed in developing a cost-effective technology for the capture and storage of CO2. This underlines the importance of the work of the Technology Centre in Mongstad, but also the importance of doing more in this area. It is therefore an overall committee that points out that Gassnova should explore the possibility of a demonstration project for solutions for the capture and storage of CO2 from industry and that meets Gassnova’s assessment of the possibility of completing a demonstration project for the capture and storage of a new coal-fired power plant in Longyearbyen. The Committee considers Norway to have the ambition to realise at least one full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility by 2020. In the construction sector, there is a high potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions through simple grips. The public sector should lead by example. The majority therefore believe that fossil fuel oil as a base load must be phased out of all state buildings by 2018. The majority also agree to ban fossil oil firing in households and other buildings in 2020. This presupposes the introduction of sound support schemes for conversion to bio-oil, heat pump or other environmentally friendly alternatives as from 2013. However, the most environmentally friendly energy is that which is not being used. Therefore, it is paradoxical that Norway is the only country in Europe without an energy efficiency improvement target. The majority therefore ask the government to come back with a target for energy efficiency improvement in construction during 2012 and to propose to the Stortinget with instruments to trigger significant energy efficiency and energy conversion, from fossil to environmentally friendly sources in private households. In addition to the reinforced building technical requirements for newly built government alerts in the climate communication, climate policy in the building sector has become much more ambitious than the climate communication originally foreseen. It is important to note that very many energy efficiency measures have a short depreciation period and significantly reduce operating costs for the owner of the building. For individuals, the threshold is often slightly higher than in the industrial market. That's why good incentives are important. Transport emissions amounted to 32 pst in 2010. of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, this is a sector that is not exposed to carbon leakage. It is therefore in this sector that the potential for domestic cuts is greatest. In order to reduce emissions from this sector, it is necessary to phase in new and environmentally friendly vehicle technologies and to facilitate the choice of public transport, corridors and bicycles. The majority agree to strengthen the climate communication on a number of points in the transport sector. The majority determine, inter alia: strengthening the public transport reward scheme by 250 million. SEK in 2013 and 250 million. kr in 2014 and that documented results shall be prioritised. This will be an important contribution and incentive for big cities to invest heavily in public transport in the future. It will contribute to a significant reduction in the growth of emissions in the metropolitan area. It is also important to bet on the railway, not least in the commuting areas of the Central East. The majority therefore ask the government to submit proposals for rapid progress in the development of the intercity link in the Central East. The majority also requests the inclusion of a national public transport strategy as part of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. In the field of transport, it is an important signal that the current tax advantages for the purchase and use of zero-emission cars will continue beyond the next charging period, provided that the number of such vehicles does not exceed 50000. All the batches in Stortinget are behind this proposal, which provides long-term and predictability for both buyers, users and sellers of such vehicles. In addition, the majority assume that fuel taxes and car taxes will contribute to making it more profitable and predictable to choose environmentally and climate-friendly in the years to come. Developments in the transport sector are largely determined in the national transport plan and in the state budgets in the future. Although the majority has achieved significant progress compared to the government’s original notification, much will depend on how the ambitious objectives and ambitions of the transport area are followed up in practice in the coming years. Let me end by mentioning some other areas covered by the message and setting. In the agricultural sector, the majority agree that a national cross-sectoral biogas strategy is needed. An overall committee agrees that Norway must contribute to strengthening the knowledge base of climate work. The Committee proposes inter alia: to increase the allocation of the research centres for environmentally friendly energy and to establish a new geothermal energy centre. The Committee also stresses the importance of the Swedish-Norwegian market for electricity certificates, but asks the government to evaluate the competitive situation between Swedish and Norwegian operators. The Committee review has helped to make the climate notification more ambitious and committed in important areas. As rapporteur, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on Norwegian climate policy. At the same time, it is important to stress that it could have been even wider. The Plural setting is the result of an agreement between six of the seven parts of Stortinget. I am sorry that the government parties did not want to have conversations with all the parties on Stortinget. The opposition parties negotiated as a block, and there was therefore no reason to keep one of the lots out of further talks, not least because the negotiating position on which the settlement was based was actually developed by all four opposition parties in common. Then all the parties should be allowed to negotiate about them as well. Today, however, there is first and foremost reason to rejoice at the outcome, which is a better and more concrete climate policy. I thank the Committee on Cooperation in a demanding process and recommend the suspension of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2304	I want to start by going back to 2008. With the climate agreement at the time, we reached a broad agreement on some basic objectives and principles of Norwegian climate policy. In the wake of the agreement, some very clear and important climate policy measures were taken that have shaped Norwegian climate policy in the years that have followed. I just want to briefly mention green certificates, where we have an agreement with Sweden that makes us responsible for financing over 13 TWh new renewable energy. I want to mention the rainforest plot, where billions have been added. It's been demanding, and it's demanding, but it's got amazing results, for example. in Brazil, where deforestation is halved. Given that deforestation stands for 20 pst. This is very important in itself, in addition to providing much-needed optimism and confidence in global climate negotiations. President, there's something serious wrong with the clock. I think I've got 10 seconds instead of 10 minutes!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2314	I'm aware of that, but the representative can only continue. She's got plenty of time!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2317	Fine! In addition, I would like to point to the railway operation, which has increased sharply since 2008. In other words, it was a message and a settlement that have set clear political tracks and led to concrete action. The message we are now discussing is based on the consensus of 2008 and is a follow-up and a concreteisation of the objectives we set at the time. That is why I am very pleased that we were able to reach a broad agreement with the 2008 settlement partners in the handling of this communication. When we engage in climate policy, we pursue policies in a generation perspective. There are no other policy areas that require the same degree of long-term sustainability and lead to goods thinking as climate. There is therefore agreement both on the seriousness of the climate crisis and on the basic principles of climate policy and on the importance of these measures. That's why we wanted to talk to the opposition with a view to reaching an agreement, despite the fact that the government parties have a majority, and that's why I'm as happy as I am that we got it the way we did. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the settlement partners for their good – sometimes demanding – but important work. So I want to say something about the content of the message. One of the most important areas is transport and the commitment to collective solutions in big cities. For example, in the Oslo area, which I represent, it is estimated that about 500,000 more trips will be made in 2030 – not in the year, not in the month, not in the week, but every day. That figure is hard to take over, but it says something about how huge collective investment that needs to be made just to make sure that people experience having about the same offer as today. If we're going to have an ambition to make the offer better, we're going to talk about a collective promise in a completely different order of magnitude than we have today. It's going to cost money, but we've strictly made no choice. Trying to build itself out of the problem of more roads is useless, there are climate failures and, in addition, several times more expensive than building out collective solutions. That is why the climate communication sets out a target of avoiding traffic growth in metropolitan areas by means of public transport, bicycles and corridors. It is a signal that the government has communicated in the past, including: when state transport modes submitted their proposals for the national transport plan and it is now an important part of the climate communication. It is impossible for municipalities and counties to cope with the investment needed alone. It is therefore a major breakthrough that the state is now saying so clearly that both investment and the operation of public transport in large cities should be given a central place in the national transport plan. To date, NTP has been a plan for the major national road and rail development. Public transport has been the responsibility of the county council, more or less alone. The lifting of public transport now means recognising that the collective challenges of cities are a national responsibility that the state must be involved in solving. It's a big shift in thinking about public transport. The agreement with the conciliators also means that we are getting concrete reinforcement of the reward scheme, which is now to be added to a total of 500 million. kr extra in the next two years. That means more than a double from today's level, and we get up in almost 1 billion. kr. Railway development is also essential to prevent the complete corking of the Central East within a few years. Perhaps the most important single measure in the climate communication is the realization of the entire intercity triangle. The NTP coming next year is going to give us the answer to which sections are to be built first, but the message is crystal clear that the entire triangle is to be realized, and with the agreement of the settlement partners, it is clear that it is going to happen quickly. It's important for the Central East and all the people who live, and will live here, but this also has a very clear national dimension. If the central East is corked, it has negative ring-effects throughout the country. In addition, the bet is doubled on the walk and cycle path, and there is a separate package of measures to get more low- and zero-emission vehicles on the roads. I am very pleased that we have been given clarification through the landfill treatment that the tax benefits of the zero-emission cars today will last for the next majority period, i.e. until 2017, unless we get an explosion and pass 50,000 such cars. This morning there were some of us who met the Elbil Association in front of the Stortinget, and they congratulated on a historic decision. Norway is already the world champion in an electric car. The regime we've created, with a combination of huge tax advantages and other benefits, such as access to collective fields, has made no one near us in terms of the density of electric cars. Until now, the electric car has been mainly a city car, a no. 2-car. With the new models coming into the market, we get electric cars that can act like family cars. It gives a completely different perspective on what electric cars might mean in the years to come. Then the message is clear as far as industry is concerned. One of the really big discussions in the Norwegian climate debate has been whether action in the quota sector has been sensible. For us, the quota system is a very important tool. It ensures cost-effective cut. In addition, we are developing a global transmission value system. Measures in the quota sector will naturally lead to the release of allowances and emissions elsewhere. At the same time, we see very clearly that the quota price is low, and that market-based instruments with low prices are good at realizing cheap cuts. But they're bad at delivering innovation. Therefore, action in the quota sector raises some real dilemmas. In the view of the Labour Party, it is essential that the measures taken in the quota sector have a gain over and above clean emission cuts, for example: contribute to the development of new technologies. With the creation of a climate and energy fund, that's exactly what we're doing. The Fund shall be established on the basis of Enova’s core fund, with two parts, one that carries out Enova’s current tasks and one that takes care of climate technology. The total amount of the fund is going to be 50 billion. kr. This will involve significant funds for the development of new technologies in Norwegian business. It is good for the climate, but it is also good for the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. For the Workers' Party, it has always been a central premise that climate policy and industrial policy must play a role. For a long time, there has been a dominant view that offensive climate policies are hostile to business and that politicians have to choose between business development and climate change. The political grip we're doing now demonstrates with all clarity that it's wrong. On the contrary, we are now using climate policy as an instrument to positively stimulate conversion and secure jobs in Norwegian industry. There are few things that please me more than that. It has long been a wish for me that we should be able to see the offensive opportunities and potential revenues that lie in being early out with climate action, not just talking about costs and burden-sharing. Now I mean we do that. Norwegian climate debate has largely shifted focus in this direction in recent years. Now politics is also doing that, and we're following an international trend. When e.g. The EU continues to have offensive climate goals and takes on commitments, despite the serious economic situation in which they are located, because it has a perception that climate policy is not about deindustrialisation but reindustrialisation, such as climate change. Connie Hedegaard, the climate commissioner, says it. It is a fundamental belief that climate policy, with a focus on both technological solutions in industry and heavy investment in new forms of energy, is stimulating to the economy. I believe it strengthens the message that we now agree with the conciliators that the escalation of such a fund should be completed in 2016, four years earlier than the notification provided. A complete review of all the small and large measures contained in the notification and in the agreement will lead to too far. In addition, the rapporteur has explained too much of this in his statement. I just want to briefly mention a couple of other fields where new grips are now being taken. In the construction sector, it will be noticed that we are becoming more offensive. The most important tool we have for new construction is the Building Technical Regulation. It has to be tightened so that we reach the passive house level in 2015 and almost zero energy level in 2020. At the same time, the replacement of building mass is slow. Therefore, measures in existing buildings are important, and we now have component requirements in place. The notification was submitted for phase-out of oil fires by 2020. Now we take the road and go to the ban. In the petroleum sector, there is also an increase in CO2 tax by NOK 200. We think it's right to do that. The seriousness of the climate crisis requires that we, as politicians, now have the power to take action that will ensure that we move in the right direction towards 2020 and 2050. The IPCC recommendations are clear and so much referenced that I will not spend time on them here. But I believe that the level of emission cuts required in the years to come, combined with the fact that many more people require, and have the right to, access to energy, makes it obvious that we need to use many instruments at once. The approach clearly shows that there is one party that has a fundamentally different approach to the climate problem. Where the other parties share the description of the seriousness of the climate problem, the Progress Party has its own specific comments, which express more concern for the climate of debate than for the climate as such. It's a simple observation to bring with it further into the debate, and it describes very well why we at some point chose to go further with the 2008 settlement partners, who have the same understanding of the seriousness of the problem and the same overall approach to objectives and instruments as we have. It's our opinion that this has become a good deal of a deal, that makes a good announcement, and that the decisions we make today are going to stand over time as something we can be proud of having made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2371	The last few weeks have been a few strange weeks. There's been a lot of media speculation about who's in there, and who's out there. It's a little bit 'Big Brother-schwung' all over the place. The progress party was involved in the open-card negotiations. We went in to move the process towards our policies. We played with open cards and were clear on our priorities. It is important to stress that, above all, in relation to the other civil parties, we reached quite a long way on the list of measures. But this gradually evolved from the government parties to a political game of dimensions. It was about keeping us out, costing us what it would cost. I allow myself to distinguish two things: one thing is the measures that this conciliation is about; another is the description of reality. So it was not the description of reality that was set and discussed for hours with all parties and later with the other bourgeois parties – that was the measures it was all about. Then it is a little strange that the reason for keeping the Progress Party out of the negotiations when they were resumed after the break – and that was confirmed to this extent by the representative Marthinsen – is that we do not believe enough in man-made climate change. So there was not a real political debate about action, and measures can have many effects on society climate change, but also on other societal aspects. Then we were kept outside. So it's hard to understand this as something other than a political game. We didn't think enough. We were not strong enough in the belief in so-called man-made climate change so that we could participate in even discussing it. Together with the other civil parties, we reached a long way in finding a common platform for action – but it was perhaps the government party that feared that there was actually room for agreement here. I guarantee that the Progress Party would not have been finally behind the agreement as it is on the table today. But if we had participated in the negotiations, it cannot be excluded either. Therefore, it should have been a tried way. What I experience, on the other hand, is that when I see the proposals as they lie, and the consensus that lies in the agreement, it is striking that some of the obvious stumbling wires that were placed there in the first round of the government parties have disappeared as dew for the sun. It was clear from the day one on the part of the government parties that the Progress Party was not to participate in this conciliation. Because I know there's going to be a debate here today about who believes enough in so-called man-made climate change, I choose to take that matter right away. The Progress Party has a more nuanced view of that theme. We want a more nuanced climate debate, and we believe that there is strong reason to reconsider the situation, and that it is not that the UN Climate Panel alone is right in all its conclusions. I'm going to say it this way: a chain in 2012 is therefore a person who does not accept unilaterally and without reservation all the conclusions that may come from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and who is open that natural variations can actually play a greater role in the development of the climate than human activity. To establish it immediately: the party of progress has never said that human activity does not affect the climate. We've never said that. What we're questioning is the effect and effect of that activity versus the natural variations that occur around us anyway. We are more open to what is international research, which is a much larger and more open debate in the world around us. We can go to Germany. So there is a person, a former environmental politician from the SPD, who has changed his mind and published a book called Die kolde Sonne – «The Cold Sun» – who has created an enormous debate in German media. We have a professor, a Nobel Prize winner in physics, Norwegian-American Ivar Giäver, who believes that one goes too far in not accepting the questioning of the conclusions of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. There's a debate out there. It's a real debate. So it's not a political task for us, either in this room or other non-scientists, to draw conclusions, but we're going to be open to the debate. It has always been — not to be swollen — in the Western civilisation nature that one is open to debate. At this point, conclusions have been drawn. The media does not even cover it when it comes to prominent climate skeptics in Norway. There is no media interest – it has been concluded, although the debate is largely out there. So you use this argument of consensus. Well, most scientists agree, you say. I've just proved that it's not like that, with just a few references. It's also a rather dangerous starting point when you're going to kind of apply what the majority says. But scientific methods have never been about a vote by a democratic majority. Those who have walked ahead and led the way have always been in a minority and disputed in their time. Had it not been for people like Galileo Galilei, we still thought the earth was the center of university. The theory of relativity and Darwinism, the theory of evolution, was also controversial when they were presented. So this is what's so special: you've chosen to take a scientific position despite the fact that there's a real debate going on around us in the world. That trap shall not enter the Party of Advancement. But we're open to considering the measures. That is what we did when we sat down at the negotiating table in the first round, before the break – even when we discussed this with the other bourgeois parties. So then we have some goals that we're going to apply. We were open and honest about that. We do not accept that climate arguments should be used to impose more taxes on the Norwegian people. We do not want any more injunctions, bans and public regulations and that the climate is used as a basis to bring it about. At the same time, however, there are a number of measures, including those in the agreement, which are good — safe for climate reasons, but also good from other societal point of view. So there's no reason to be against it. But it's about the device, it's about priorities, and whether you're going to use carrots or whips. The progress part thinks carrot is the way to go. Then we're going to base our principles on an acceptable approach and say: OK, human activity affects the climate through CO2 and other greenhouse gases so essential that we have to make changes. At least you should do some priorities in relation to the way you have chosen to go – and then I am talking about the climate communication – for example. two thirds domestic cut by 2020. It's not about cost and benefit, it's about running a symbol policy. If the point is to cut as much CO2 emissions as possible, you have to do it where you get the most cut for the money. It's about using society's resources in this field, and all the time none of us have an infinite horn, you have to make priorities. That is why this kind of symbolism policy is not a believer, as it is quite clear. We've said that one of the sad things in this agreement is that there is no guarantee of future road construction across the whole country. Priority is given to the collective sector, and it is also the Advance Party for it. But when we know that we have a budgetary balance to deal with, the consequence – when you don't take any reservations – is that it's at the expense of the road effort. It's a fact that this agreement leads to. It is also an indirect acceptance of higher fuel charges when twisting the device and applying several climate criteria. We're not against it either, but we don't accept that you just have to twist it over. Then you must at least cut, so that you do not increase the fuel tax. The same applies to the ban on oil firing. There are 100,000 households affected by this. It's the social side of this that I doubt that the committee has thought particularly well through. What is so striking is the lack of ability to see coherence between policy areas, i.e. climate on the one hand, and let us take passive houses on the other hand – passive houses in 2015 and nearly zero emission houses in 2020: Only introducing it from 2015 – in two and a half years – will, according to Block Watne, cost an average dwelling of 250,000 kroner. In addition, we know that the few suppliers are able to deliver it. So the competitive situation will push prices up. It's a natural expression of how the market works. At the same time, significant questions have been raised about asthma and allergies related to dense houses – that they are almost hermetically enclosed buildings. You haven't thought about that kind of thing. Ask members of the municipal committee, who are very concerned about and concerned about what is happening in the housing market, and young people who are kept out of the housing market. On the other hand, the Energy and Environment Committee sits and increases costs and makes it even more difficult for young people to acquire new housing. Coherence – despite the inability to see contexts – is what I am calling for. At the same time – not just being negative, it should not be – is the good action we support. We support almost everything in the field of industry; we believe that even further progress should be made. Industry is not a major topic of discussion. But we're very concerned about the infrastructure guarantee, so it's not just the big cities that are going to get the means of transport in the future. We are in favour of technology development for CO2 cleaning. We are in general for research that can promote renewable energy. We are in favour of using the tax system to promote environmentally friendly measures. But we do not accept the whip you add, when you are going to use higher car charges to punish those who already have a car that is not particularly environmentally friendly. It's also a social side of what you should think about. So I allow myself to ask a question. Norway, together with Switzerland and the EU countries in particular, is responsible for the continuation of the Kyoto Agreement. The self-imposed cuts that we are going to do will also happen in the EU – one of their most dramatic circumstances in terms of the economic situation. I would like to say that I am not in doubt that Greece is going to be able to meet its emission reduction obligations, but it is not going to happen through a conscious climate policy. It's going to happen as a result of economic decline and unemployment. The question to be asked is whether the EU is in a position to follow up on its commitments. Are we perhaps the only country in Europe that has the combination of economic spine to bear the allocation of resources that this requires, and the will to do so? The question should be raised as to whether the EU is able to do so — at least. We will certainly come back on the individual measures during the debate. The Progress Party has promoted a very comprehensive list. We support, to the extent that the setting I, II, III, VIII, X, XI, XII and XIII, i.e. what is the result of the settlement, and we ask for a vote that gives the opportunity to vote for what we're in favour of. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2423	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2426	I will come back to the Advance Party in a later article. I respond to climate policy being put up against poverty, because the poorest are the most affected by climate change, and poverty problems can only be solved if we also solve climate problems. That's how the anthropogenic temperature rises are the greatest threat in the world today. There is no political issue that is more important than what we can do to reduce CO2 emissions in order to prevent climate change with more storms, droughts, imbalances in ecological systems affecting food production and living conditions for people. That is why I am very pleased that we have succeeded in creating a broad consensus that will underpin climate policy in the coming years. In SV, we compare it with the nursery agreement, which was ours until then the greatest victory. Now we have won a long-term climate policy. A good climate message has become even better because we have reached an agreement that in no areas weakens the climate policy contained in the message, but which reinforces and deepens some of the proposals. The parties agree that the climate notification, with the majority comments, will form the basis for climate policy during this and the next major period in such a way that the policy of the message and the comments cannot be weakened, but only further strengthened. In SV, we are very pleased to have had an impact on the objectives of the climate agreement – 30 pst. cut in climate emissions, of which two-thirds at home. The climate notification is the most concrete and comprehensive climate action list presented by some Norwegian governments. Nevertheless, questions arise as to whether the measures are sufficiently dosed. It is important that the objectives are taken seriously so that action can be adjusted if the objectives are not achieved. If we're going to achieve the targets, we need to cut emissions in all sectors, as the Climate Communication puts it. The government proposed an approach to industrial conversion – with a 50-billion-dollar climate fund. kr – and the proposal has received good reception both in industry and in trade. After the committee reading, we will now have an even faster filling of the fund, which will prevent carbon leakage, and enable us to meet a carbon-neutral future without a Stone Age industry. Internationally, we have a low-emission industry, precisely because we have made demands that have not always been made by other countries, but that have stimulated change, and we have combined this with support. In the petroleum sector, electricity is available on the base, which is now under further pressure. In the future, I believe, we must also look at the pace of oil extraction – for several reasons: we have become too dependent on an industry that is in the long run a sunset industry. Instead, we need to use the knowledge available in this industry to develop renewable energy. Electricity in Norway is renewable energy, yet only half of the energy consumption in Norway is fossil-free. We have a big task of replacing the fossil energy use we have with renewable energy. It's going to happen by saving power -- the best power is the one we don't use, as it's called. It will take place through the development of renewable energy from hydropower, wind, sun and waves – in a way that takes care of biodiversity. This will happen by phased out fossil energy on platforms, in industry, in housing and in the transport sector. The Climate Communication contained a target for phase-out of fossil energy in building from 2020. Now this is specified by the government coming back with a ban. At the same time, the State shall demonstrate its way by phased out its use of fossil energy already in 2018. The Climate Communication states that Norway should be at the international front in the case of electric cars. There are no plans to change the tax advantages for electric cars, and until now there are relatively few cars. But now we're waiting for the sale of electric cars to take off, and it's the government's policy to get it done. This is why the charging policy is now concrete to ensure that the tax benefits are guaranteed over the next major period. We have met ElBil Norway, who has understood the historical fact that we can guarantee a car tax for so long! It is with great pleasure that I can join in recommending the majority comments adopted on this matter, and thanking that initiative outside this house – environmental organisations and individuals – which made it possible to come back and find agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2459	Work on avoiding man-made climate change is one of the major global challenges of our time. The reports of the International Climate Panel show that we are national peoples elected at a time when decisive choices are made for the future – choices that will shape future choices that could be decisive for the framework and living conditions of future generations. Someone might ask, does this not apply to all political areas? Yes, at least many, but not in all policy areas that wrong choices are so difficult to reverse, that the consequences are so difficult to correct. The green thread through central party history is the administrator's idea: our administration is to deliver the earth in at least the same condition to the next generation in which we took it, that the assessments and choices we make should be made in view of the coming generations and not build on short-term gains. And when you add the time dimension, there's a lot of math that changes, and some economists have problems getting their equations going up. But it is by no means new that long-term bets respond – also economically – nor is it new that the pursuit of short-term benefits has consequences for those who come after. We now have enough available knowledge about human activity and the impact it has on the climate on the planet so that this alone should lead to an offensive global climate policy. It's right – as the Progress Party also says – that we don't know everything, but it doesn't speak for nothing; it tells us the opposite way to base the precautionary principle. All in all, the management idea and the precautionary principle of the Centre Party provide the ideological and political anchoring that we need to participate in the formulation of an offensive climate policy. We live in a country that has huge natural resources, both fossil and renewable. We've built up the level of wealth we have, among other things. by selling fossil energy. In the view of the Centre Party, this gives us a special responsibility to help develop technologies to reduce climate tax using fossil energy. The climate fund, which will subsequently amount to 50 billion. kr, is an important part of the technology effort. For the Centre Party, this is one of the most important elements of the Climate Action Communication: the climate challenge is real and must be met through action, but there are great business opportunities in the development of new technologies for a new green future. We have a great responsibility to ensure that Norwegian businesses have tools to make a transition to a greener business, in such a way that interesting business opportunities also emerge. That's right, as the case-speaker says: we don't solve climate problems by pursuing a policy that makes the world's purest power-processing industry move out of the country and convert fossil energy sources. Norway has a large untapped potential for renewable energy. The center part thinks it's right to use more of this, whether we're talking about water power, wind power or bioenergy. In addition, we have large resources in energy forms and technologies that are not yet commercially viable. An important contribution to climate work must also be to make more use of these resources through production and technology development. We have long traditions for this, we have knowledge of both the production and use of electricity – and this we need to develop further. This does not rule out an offensive policy when it comes to energy efficiency improvement. The Climate Communication announces a clear commitment to both rail, public transport and the organisation of walking and health care. With the people's alert in our big cities, it is very important – as the majority point out – that the growth of transport should come through public transport, bicycles and corridors. It is important for the future to and the environment in cities, but also for the rest of the country, where road vehicles are still important. If the Progress Party and the representative Amundsen were really concerned about the distribution of road vehicles, it had to be in his interest to ensure that the growth of the population in the major cities and the growth of transport resulting from it would not be achieved through road traffic, but rather through offensive measures on public transport and bicycles, for example. The bet on an electric car is passed on and eaten, and we're in the Center Party naked with that. I believe that the Minister for Transport may be more closely involved in measures within the field of transport. As I said, we can produce and release a lot of electricity that can be used in the industry, such as electricity to the Norwegian base, in the transport sector to the electric car and rail and to new industries, such as: data storage. We also need a new network to ensure that new energy production reaches users. Investment in power generation through e.g. green certificates and new investment on infrastructure networks are already focussed on by the government. The climate message facilitates and focuses on phased into clean energy in areas that currently have a large amount of fossil energy, and this is an important step further. The focus on energy efficiency has been strengthened, and the focus on forests and bioenergy facilitates further investment in these resources, for example: in the heat and transport sector. Not least, it is important that forest policy has been given a clear signal that a good and active forest policy is also a good climate policy. Forest binds CO2. A commitment to forest planting and an increase in the extraction of wood, while exploiting the energy provided by forestry, is thus an important part of the future Norwegian climate policy. Using a tree material in buildings, capture CO2 for even longer time. So there are great climate gains in the forest, and I know that the Minister of Agriculture will also come back later in the debate. There are a lot of reasons to be aware of the climate message. One of them is the clear international obligation that the government and the Storting are now announcing. We're going to be a nation that plays a role beyond our size when it comes to climate, both by taking on domestic climates and showing that a welfare society with a low emission is possible, and also by contributing through the international quota system and through a rainforest campaign that Norway gets great international attention around. We are to be a country that takes responsibility internationally, because it will be other countries and their populations that will become tougher by a strong global temperature rise. The climate message has been delivered through a long and thorough process of globalization and government. The central part of the message, similar to the other government parts, has put a lot of work into it. In cooperation with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, the message in the big deal has become even more concrete and more of the efforts have been further strengthened. One of the world’s most offensive national climate strategies – perhaps the most offensive – is further strengthened. Hence, it is right to distribute praise both to the government party and to those parts of the Stortinget that saw the importance of building a broad settlement in this important matter. Progress party wasn't part of wide agreement. I believe that everyone who listens to Amundsen's posts here understands that there is a great deal of distance between what the Progress Party stands for in climate policy and what the other parties in this room have as their starting point. It must be allowed to have different visions. But one can't wait to meet up with measures and views that go in a completely different direction than the majority would like. It has to be accepted. I also think the case spokesperson should at least think about it when he sums up the cooperation in Stortinget as he does. Would a settlement that also meant a party that so clearly separated its policy from that of the majority want to contribute to a more offensive, forward-looking climate communication and a more offensive climate policy – or would it have pushed in the other direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2496	I want to start this article by congratulating all of us with the day. The size has once again managed to gather around a broad consensus on climate policy, and it stands to the glory of Stortinget. Thank you very much, Mr Astrup, rapporteur. Despite the political distance and the cross-cutting agendas, he has managed to bring together the Committee on a nearly unanimous position. I'd say that's almost a trick – because it wasn't a matter of course that we should come to an agreement this time. The consensus came because many of us realized that the climate issue is too important to be sacrificed for electoral reasons and political games. I must also say I am impressed by the way the Right has stood through this matter. They have chosen the case rather than the game. It is a strength for Norwegian policy that we are able to concentrate on common solutions on such an important issue as the climate issue. Many will agree with me when I say that the climate challenge, alongside poverty, is the greatest challenge of our time. Yes, this quote has already been used by two representatives earlier in this debate. It just emphasizes that this sentence has been said by so many politicians from so many parties in recent years that it has almost become a political speck. Therefore, there is a clear expectation out there among people that we should follow up this rhetoric with political action. The climate challenge cannot be solved without cross-political cooperation between countries and between political parties in each country. Norway is a rich country, yes, we are one of the richest in the world. Around us in Europe is the economic crisis. Greece and Spain are struggling with high national debt and are at risk of being thrown out of the euro zone. Unemployment in these countries is record high, and poverty is increasing. In the United States, there are concerns about the development of Europe and fears that the economic crisis will spread. Obama fears losing the presidential election because of a global impact of the euro crisis. In the middle of this, there were new negotiations in Bonn in Germany at the end of May to establish a global binding climate agreement. The meeting was no great success. The goal now being pursued, following the failure of Copenhagen, Cancun and Durban, is to set up an agreement in 2015, which will only start in 2020. In Bonn, there was a debate about how the process should be and who should be involved in which groups. These were not very uplifting discussions. My simple analysis is that the right to discharge greenhouse gases is also about the right to economic development. If commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions also automatically involves reducing economic growth and development, we will never achieve a global consensus. The difference between poor and rich countries is big enough as it is. Third-world politicians have a legitimate right to fight for the right to growth and development of their people. The solution to the climate challenge therefore lies in decoupling economic growth from growth in greenhouse gas emissions. We need a green revolution, and this revolution is what we rich and well-born northerners must head for. It brings me to the matter we are dealing with today. Those who know me know that I am an impatient person, but also that I have a large dose of patience when needed. In climate matters, we need patience, while we need to be impatient. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to move politics in an even more greener direction than the government put up for in 2007, with the first climate communication, and in 2012. We're not doing it for ourselves, but we're doing it for the next generation. It has clearly twice the Christian People's Party with the Left and Right, despite a majority government. We're not in the goal, but we've taken important steps. Step 1 said we were in 2008. Yes, then we might have taken the steps 2 and 3 through this treatment. The main problem with the climate communication as it existed when it arrived at Stortinget is that it maintains the objectives of the 2008 climate agreement without following up with enough action. Journalist Kjetil B. Alstadheim in Today’s Economy summed up the message well when he said that SV’s claim is that the goals are maintained, while the Workers’ Party’s claim is that there are not enough measures to achieve the goals. This has done something about the opposition. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have managed to put in place more and stronger instruments in national climate policy, which will bring us closer to the goal of taking two-thirds of emissions cuts in Norway. According to the Christian People's Party's own estimates, we have put in place measures that will help us reduce emissions by about seven million tonnes by 2020. Since we're in EM times, I have to say that in order to do that, we have to have some of the measures. But we believe that in these EM times. There are about three million tonnes left to achieve the objective of the climate agreement, and it is a challenge for the government to hear about from us in the next few years. I want to say here from the pulpit that the Christian People's Party had no problem having the Advance Party around the negotiating table. It was not the Progress Party that caused the negotiations to break. The responsibility for the breach lies with the government. That today we see the main positions of the Progress Party in the notification is certainly fair and reasonable when they were not allowed to participate in the conversations. The Christian People's Party is pleased with many things in the agreement we've been to. I would like to highlight in particular that we have brought with us the government to investigate the appropriateness of a Norwegian climate law. The years since 2008 have shown us that we need stronger governance tools in climate policy. As the Communication and the Agreement show, climate policy is cross-sectoral. If Norway is to succeed in becoming a low-carbon society, emissions need to be reduced in all sectors. Transport, industry, petroleum, construction, agriculture, waste — yes, all shells included. That's a well-known slogan for someone. The United Kingdom has had a climate law for several years. Now such a law is to be investigated in Norway, and I am pleased, because I believe and believe that this can be an important tool for us. The Christian People's Party has also achieved important climate policy victories in the transport sector. The current tax advantages for the purchase and use of zero-emission cars continue beyond the next charging period if the number does not exceed 50000 electric cars. This is something all the parties, including the Advance Party, agree on. It is a strength that an overall opposition is willing to commit to an offensive electric car policy that will apply throughout the next majority period. The agreement also means a sharp increase in the reward scheme for public transport. This is a system that has produced good results, and from 2014 it will increase from today’s level to close to 1 billion. kr. The reward scheme is also made more predictable for the beneficiaries by providing documented results on the basis of which aid is paid. This is an important change in the way the reward scheme has been practised in recent years. There is also agreement on major state contributions to large collective projects in and around the major cities. The State undertakes to improve the financing of major rail and tunnel projects. For the Christian People's Party, the intercity triangle has also been important in these negotiations. We have now received a guarantee from the government that we will have a rapid expansion of the intercity connection. It is exciting to have a Minister of Transport who is actually ahead of Stortinget at this point. Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has himself said publicly that by 2025 we should be able to drive intercity both to Halden, to Lillehammer and to Skien. The decision will be made next year – we'll help her with it – but now she's got a clear understanding of where the majority of the Stortinget stands in this case, through today's decision. So there's also consensus about oil firing. It is an important measure with which many of us are given the impression. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I can promise that we will have some noise in terms of conversion. We have to use carrots, but also a little bit of whip in this area to get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2530	In 2007, the government presented the first climate announcement. Then it was Gunnar Kvassheim from the Left who took the initiative that it should form the basis for a large, broad settlement. That's what the government is going to be very happy about, because a lot of the measures that came into that agreement, it's the government that gets to blame when they travel around the world now. We've masted, prayed on our knees, wanted, and sometimes choked a little too, to get this message on the table – and then it finally came. At that time, the starting point of the left has been – from where it was on the table – that we wanted the widest possible settlement in the Grand Duchy of Climate Policy. The reason why settlements are good is that it's good for democracy to have some broad settlements about the really important things. This leads to stability in one of the policy areas where stability and predictability are really needed, and it provides opportunities to build the long lines of policy in areas where it is important. And then there's a very good thing about conciliation that the bourgeois parties – every single time – draw the government in the right direction. Now we actually came a good step forward – such a good step that I have barely heard a government representative boast of some of the things that originally stood in the message, you most boast of what you got into the agreement. I'm glad. That's good. I notice that most of the parties thought that this message should only be dealt with in committee – and go in and out of comment – but I'm glad that we got to a negotiating play, from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which was very good, if I should say so. It was supposed to be the deal we had made, but it was actually a basis for negotiations. I would also like to boast – very much – of the rapporteur, Mr Astrup, who has done a very good job of bringing this forward as far as he could. What's this really about here? Well, this is one of the biggest challenges we're facing. The climate challenge is one of the greatest challenges facing our entire planet, and it is one of the challenges we have in common — all countries. It is also one of the challenges that, if we do not manage to deal with them, will probably not be a major problem for Norway, but it will be a major problem for all the poor around the globe. What fascinates me when we travel around and talk to European sister parties and other political sister parties around the world is how important this agenda is to everyone. Sick for those with major economic challenges, this is one of the main themes around the coffee table in the evening, when discussing what it is important to work on in the future. I am therefore sorry that we have lost so many years working to get this message out. I am sorry that we have lost so many opportunities to take action. For Norway is in a small bubble with other countries in terms of having an economic space to transform our business into the new challenges we face. We have all these possibilities, and we could use these possibilities even more offensively – we could have done it years ago – to make the changes that we know we need to go through. We must not throw away the fantastic economic opportunity that Norway has today – while everyone else is struggling – to transform our business into meeting the challenges of the future, so to speak, when we know that Europe is going to be asking for new technological solutions, new products and new energy solutions in the future. So to a little bit of the content of the equation. It is clear that everything in the agreement is not close to the 45 proposals contained in the primary proposal for the Left, which is on the table here today, but which we are not going to raise, as we support this agreement. But if you compare with other parties, it is clear that it is a piece – also from the primary position of the Left – to what is like here today. One of the things we're most happy about is getting an electric car deal – up to the minimum of 2017. We are very pleased with all the measures we have been given, including the commitment to climate action in buildings, which is one of the great opportunities to cut. Here it is cut in oil firing in private property and industrial buildings in 2020, as well as phased out oil firing in public buildings from 2018. It is important to have good support mechanisms, so that this is not socially distorted, but one is clearly on the right track. The second is to get a big, offensive effort on public transport on the road and on the road. I'm glad we're now getting a fairer reward scheme, where you reward on the basis of results, not on the basis of what the voters have voted in each city. We see an increase of several billion dollars in the next few years, and we see a commitment related to intercity – with the term «fastest possible». These are the major challenges we face in cities. We are also pleased that we now need to implement our own climate legislation. Getting the climate policy objectives legally binding believes we have been an important tool. This has been introduced in the United Kingdom and is now being investigated in a number of other countries. So it's important to say that the climate agreement is a minimum settlement. We're free to suggest even better action on it, and it'll probably be the Left to continue to do so. We might have wanted a different device for the climate technology fund, although we are very pleased that we got a faster escalation in the fund than the government has proposed. This is one of the keys to getting to the good climate solutions in the future. It is clear that the bourgeois parties probably had a different desire for the facilities of this fund. We will also fight for that in the future, in order to achieve better environmental solutions in industry, in private households and in the traditional industries, which are not the best in the climate. We are also pleased to have established research centres for environmentally friendly energy and to have a new research centre for geothermal energy. The ambition to build at least one new full-scale demonstration facility for capture and CO2 storage by 2020, I believe, is also an ambitious objective, which some of us believe we should be able to achieve. We are pleased that a separate biogas strategy is now to be developed. What I'm going to end with is saying that we assume that we disagree with some of the main reasons for the climate challenges. We in the left would have wanted this deal to be even wider, if it had been possible. We never got that opportunity to test, because it was more important for someone to keep out than to get it to as wide as possible. Then I have to say that we can always discuss who is Galileo Galilei, who fought for new knowledge against old tradition, and who is the pope, who fought for old tradition and old-fashioned thinking. I think that might not bring us any further. I had hoped that we would reach a broad agreement on measures here. It would have been good for democracy, and in such an important case as climate, the political game had also been put outside. But the left has kept the principle we've had from the beginning; that the important thing for us has been that as much agreement as possible that can bring us in a climate-friendly direction. For us it was important to have a reconciliation that we could put our name under, which we could actually stand for, sail if it wasn't the primary position of the left. We're glad we got to this deal, we're sorry that it didn't get wider. We're also sorry that we didn't get any more, but we stress here in the debate that this is a minimum settlement, and we want to fight to get some maximum solutions to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2567	I would first like to congratulate the Stortinget on the climate agreement despite the fact that neither Galileo Galileo nor the pope are in it, but SV, the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right. I would like to thank the Committee for a very good work on the matter, but also the parliamentary leaders involved in the final phase. I notice from the debate that this agreement at least has at least one classic feature, which a good deal always has, simply that all parties can boast of it in their very peculiar way and yet be well sober. This compares to the fact that the main lines of the government's climate message are widely supported and will be passed. Important concreteities and changes in climate communication are guaranteed, but the main reason why I have been busy with a wide range of policies is the special long-term planning of climate policy, which several of the speakers have already mentioned. The CO2 that we are releasing into the atmosphere today will be there up to 100 years in time. Unfortunately, we must therefore say that climate policy will be even more important in the decades to come than it is today. In addition, it is one of the areas where international attention is particularly focused on the kind of policy pursued by Norway and other countries. The fact that we have a broad agreement and that we plan for the long term in policy will also strengthen us internationally in environmental and climate policy. The fact that we are planning in the long term, in my view, is expressed in a number of ways – first of all, by a careful policy of the years to come. Congratulations on the climate agreement. Good for Norway and the earth – and for me. I ordered a Nissan Leaf three weeks ago and picked it up today, and I received a text message on the day the climate agreement was concluded. We don't have so many electric cars on the road in Norway – it's registered under 6,000 – but it's ten times more than in Sweden, and a quarter of all we have are registered in the first few months of the year, 2012. We could be inside an explosive growth in electric car purchases. Being careful will be important both for those who produce and for those who are customers. We're a leading electric car country today, and we've laid the groundwork for continuing to be it for years to come. So the broad deal here also ensures a strong measureability in the policy, which we have with us from the previous round, and to which the message also added. There are clear targets for reductions and there are specific measures that can be assessed by others. I was recently listening to BI rector Tom Colbjørnsen in a different context, and he said that at BI, he likes to use a phrase ‘Whats get’s measured get’s managed’. If one measures what's most important, and not everything else is strange, and if one measures it in a nuanced and good way, I think it might be a lot right in it. Now we have different targets towards 2020, which we, regardless of government, can be measured up against by the media, by organizations and others, and we have a number of actions where one in the future can go and see if we have actually done what we have said we should do. What is far more important is what is sustainable and measurable by 2020. But in the work on this message – from the time I took over for those who had worked with her before me – I have been very busy that maybe the biggest changes we're going through will take decades before we've been properly implemented. In Norway, the next few years will see demographic developments that most European countries will envy us. We will have a strong growth in the population. It is estimated that all 19 states in Norway will increase population, but with the largest growth in cities, according to forecasts. In Oslo and Akershus alone, the population can increase by as many as there are cages in Bergen and Stavanger today – roughly 350,000 people by 2030. This is good news, but it also presents great challenges when it comes to transport policy. The red-green government has doubled the investments in the railways, but in the future there will need to be a new power cap. If we are to achieve climate change objectives, the growth of transport needs in cities must take place before public transport. More goods have to go from road to road, and we have to have a railway that binds the country together more and more. It also means that we have to be willing to pursue a policy that gets traffic across urban areas from car to ‘collective transport, bicycles and corridors’. The development of the transport system of the future will have great costs, but will be a huge possibility for us in the first place. We can build a top modern transport system for business and people in daily life – and for better air quality in cities. There will be great advantages to it. Therefore, the aim is to ensure that the growth of urban passenger transport is achieved through ‘collective transport, bicycles and corridors’. That's why we need to expand the intercity connection. That is why we must bet on freight traffic. That is why we must also have an ambitious car policy. The objective of the Climate Communication to have an average emissions of 85 g CO2/km by 2020 will imply an ambitious and radical car policy, which will shape the policy towards 2020. I expect that the Minister for Transport will address other parts of that policy. Then there's another central conversion we're going through for decades to come. It's the conversion of Norwegian industry. For many decades, the contradiction between environment and industry was the most important environmental conflict. Acid rains and dumping of waste spoiled the environment, and a number of industrial businesses had to undergo major changes. Today, many of these environmental problems are far on the way. Greenhouse gas emissions from industry are falling, as they rise in the energy and transport sectors. I want to claim that industry is an important part of the solution to climate problems. New technologies and product and production processes are needed to create a low-carbon society. The industry and industry in Norway are already creating jobs and new production by investing in environmental technologies. An offensive climate policy will make employment and green growth even more possible in the future. It is against this background that the Climate Technology Fund has been launched. It will allow Enova to cooperate with industry in developing and using technologies that reduce emissions from industrial production. The climate agreement means that this fund should be in operation as early as 2013. It will mean a rapid start-up of a central instrument in the Norwegian industrial and climate strategy. At other important points, the message implies a decent future and a commitment to important parts of business. The construction sector is provided with far-sighted, good tools and great opportunities in the years to come, precisely through the climate communication that has been provided. We increase the CO2 tax in the petroleum sector by SEK 200 and also announces a clear target of using more power from land. We are implementing a balanced forest policy, which I believe the Minister of Agriculture will go through more in an article later today. Most of the climate measures that this message announces, and that the agreement announces, will give us a better society in the future – not a cheaper society, but a better society – at a low cost, if we look at the option, simply not to contribute to solving climate problems. Collective traffic will make it easier to make progress. He will also create less queue. Cars with less emissions will cause less local pollution. Buildings that are more energy efficient will provide better houses and lower current bills in the future. New, green jobs will be safe, future-oriented, good and new industries in Norway. A more environmentally friendly society will be a better society. Now the job starts. Steps in the message should be followed up and put into life. Some actions in the Size setting should be real in the coming years. I look forward to continuing my cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2612	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2615	I hope the Council of State can help clarify a couple of things that I'm wondering a little bit about. First, the Party of Governments is well among those who have gone the hardest out in the climate debate and have drawn an image of the future – in particular the predecessors of the Council of State – if you do not cut greenhouse gas emissions, which are almost end-time-like. You've gone very far in describing where you can end up. What becomes the big question is: If you realize that the world is almost going down if you don't tighten up on greenhouse gas emissions, why aren't you busy cutting where it gets the most effect? Why is the two-thirds target in the case of domestic cuts suspended? If you fear the future, the point must be to bring down emissions as quickly as possible – not where you do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2624	I've never heard previous councillor Erik Solheim say something in the vicinity of it to compare to "end-time-like conditions". I should like to look at the documentation. On the other hand, he had the same knowledge-based approach as I did. We have provided the basis for our policy, perhaps the most extensive international research work ever – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. So if we're going to follow it, that's a measure of 50 to 85 pst. cut in global emissions towards 2050, both rich developed countries and many emerging economies must cut their emissions dramatically. We don't get away from them in Norway, and then we're more likely to implement the transition early – slowly but surely – instead of being among those who become the losers in international competition because we're in line with environmental requirements here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2633	The reason I ask the question is not least calculations as to what it will cost to electrify Snow White. It is estimated at 10 billion Norwegian kroner. When you then see the amount of CO2 emissions it will cause, and think about using that money, for example. in other areas of the world, where dramatic higher cuts could be made, it is a little strange that national cuts should be given priority. I ask the question again: If you want to cut as quickly as possible for a limited sum of money, you have to insert the impact where you get the effect as quickly as possible. That is why it appears as pure symbolism when the government and the party of the Council of State are so concerned with this two-thirds goal. It appears to be a symbolic policy, and it is difficult to understand it in a different way. Can the Council of State explain that? Are you not busy taking the emissions there... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2643	Just first of all, a short consideration: I've rarely heard anything so dissatisfied with not getting involved in something that they thought is so stupid, as the representative Amundsen now characterises the broad unity as. The reason why we are once again – all the parties, with the exception of one – some of the targets is that we have to contribute both cost-effective and fast cuts internationally. An example of this is the rainforest rate when it comes to Brazil’s deforestation, perhaps the largest international climate action – fantastically important. The work we have now seen on short-lived climate drivers is another example. But no country, no economies, will escape. Fortunately, then, there has been quite a lot of agreement in Norway – although there is still some disagreement about action and simplicity – that we are most likely to make important changes in transport, industry and other areas quickly, not least because it also means progress for our society. The progress will not be on the Progress Party, and we will only have to respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2650	When the previous climate announcement was presented, the opposition helped to make it more ambitious and binding than the government had planned. This time the opposition is doing the same thing. Today, I have heard several speakers from the government parties expressing great joy at the progress that has been made. But you can wonder why it is that the government parties do not make these good proposals themselves, when the government parties have a majority and could well have proposed these measures that they present today as a victory, without the help of the opposition. Of course, we are more than helpful in making the government's climate policy more ambitious, but still, the question is: why doesn't the government do this by itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2655	The government made a climate announcement that we think is very good, which is a broad review of the policy, and where we put the headlines for what we are now implementing. Almost all of the measures in this area were included, and the main lines of the objectives were included. But then I am, I must say, very happy that the treatment in Stortinget has led to additional measures, concreteities and money that have come before – a number of different things. I am very pleased that we have the potential in Norway, even though it is a plural government, to create a broad consensus on such concreteities and the breadth of politics, and that one here in the Stortinget – at least six out of seven parties – chose politics rather than games in this debate. Then I am also pleased that the representative of Astrup can be pleased that he has been allowed to contribute specifically to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2660	The petroleum sector accounts for 26 pst. of our national emissions. An important measure to reduce emissions in the long term in the petroleum sector is power from land. The climate statement states: ‘With several new, smaller findings in the same area, there may be significant gains in coordinated development. A coordinated deployment can also make land-based power a more realistic alternative than if the findings are developed individually.’;» We are now on case No. 9 on today's map. Case No. 3 Today, the Edvard Grieg field was being expanded and operated, a new field. There we are proposing today to decide that we will have an expansion of two gas turbines that will increase greenhouse gas emissions, despite the fact that we have an overall plan that we are waiting for in this area, about the Utsira height. My question to the Council of State is: is it so that before we actually adopt the Climate Action Communication, we begin to delve into the policy of a previous decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2673	As the representative will probably remember the case earlier today, one of the reasons why it will be possible to apply force from land in the future, and to facilitate it in particular. So I'd rather turn it around: there's one up there that it's possible to do it, if the total review shows that it's wise. With the climate message, we have seen a clearer goal of bringing power from land when it is possible to do so costly and based on networks and other considerations. I think it will be important, because we know that power from land can be an important contribution to reducing emissions in the petroleum sector, and we also know that in the years ahead, towards 2020 and beyond, we will probably have a surplus of power in Norway and an increased potential to actually implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2678	The left tries every day in this room to make government decisions better. We promote daily proposals and are almost always downhearted. But in this case we have been included. The MP in SV said on the News Channel that a good climate report has improved. I just want to confirm from the Council of State Mr Vegar Solhjell that he shares his opinion with his parliamentary leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2685	My parliamentary leader is also my party leader, so I can hardly do anything but confirm that I think he, as usual, said very wise things in this context! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2690	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2693	This morning, Norwegian Elbil Association marked its joy over the climate agreement outside the Stortinget. Like environmental organisations, the elbileire are very pleased with the outcome of the climate communication and negotiations, and in particular with the guarantee we actually guarantee the electric car by continuing the current tax advantage until 2017 – a charging policy that has already led Norway to the top as the world's leading electric car. However, this is only one of many clear grips the batches have gathered around in the agreement to cut greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. It's necessary. In 2010, greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector amounted to 32 pst. of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions. In cities, the sector accounts for more than half of the emissions. Passenger car traffic represents the largest share. Therefore, if we are to succeed in achieving the ambitious objectives of the agreement to cut domestic climate emissions, strong action must be taken on the whole sector. The Norwegian car park needs to be phased over to become cleaner and more environmentally friendly. Over the course of a few years, the government has contributed to a 30 pst drop in CO2 emissions from new cars in Norway. through changes in the charging scheme. The climate agreement underlines the need to continue this conversion of vehicle and fuel charges in a more environmentally friendly direction. The strong population growth in the major urban areas over the next 20 years creates exceptional transport needs, as many have mentioned today. In the larger urban areas of Norway, a population growth of 28 pst is expected. from 2010 to 2030. Population growth requires significant capacity expansion in the transport system, regardless of whether it is by car or by more environmentally friendly modes of transport. The forecasts show that around two million more trips will be made daily in the nine largest urban areas in 2030 than in 2010. There is no doubt that one-sided car-based traffic growth will be significantly more expensive for society than a traffic growth managed by public transport and bicycles. A car-based traffic growth will increase climate emissions by 20 pst. If traffic growth occurs in public transport and bicycles, climate emissions will increase marginally. I am therefore very pleased that the climate agreement continues the government's clear objective that the growth of passenger transport, which the population growth of the larger cities brings, should take place through public transport, corridors and bicycles. It's not just what's good for the climate. Less traffic will also provide cleaner air, less noise, increased road safety and, in general, more well-being in cities. However, cities and local authorities already face major challenges in financing the necessary investments and operations in public transport. Last year, the national assembly of the Workers' Party concluded that the State must contribute more to the operation and investment of public transport. The current framework grant to county councils and the reward scheme is not sufficient. The climate agreement follows up this decision by both proposing a strengthening of the reward scheme and stressing the need for the State to contribute more to the operation and investment of public transport in major cities. In Bergen, the city line is now being built from the centre of Flesland to a total price tag of about 7.5 billion. kr. Most of this is paid by the drivers in Bergen. Then the goal is to build the track from the centre to Åsane and Loddefjord respectively. The price estimate from Bergen centrum to Åsane is currently up to NOK 3 billion. In Oslo and Akershus, local politicians agree on a cross-political settlement that ensures that a large proportion of tolls in the next ten years go to public transport. That's good. But to the perhaps most important collective effort in the metropolitan region, a new metropolitan tunnel through Oslo, it is currently only set of 500 million. kr of an investment estimated at 10 billion. kr. This shows a little bit of need. The right sometimes refers to own decisions to prioritize public transport in the four largest cities. But relatively similar economic challenges with investments and the operation of public transport are also found in our second largest cities, such as Tromsø, Kristiansand, Fredrikstad and Drammen. Municipal authorities and county councils should also have primary responsibility for public transport in the future. They know both the challenges and the solutions best locally. On the part of Stortinget, we are going to work for more people to do like Trondheim, where, through the use of public transport and car reduction measures, they have fantastic results with more climate-friendly transport. It is therefore essential that the climate agreement is followed up, so that the State effectively prioritises and secures investments in operation and investment in public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2722	The game around the climate announcement both before and after it came to Stortinget is not exactly capable of strengthening the confidence of the country's leading parliamentary assembly and the Stoltenberg government. The government’s speech posed so great challenges that the climate message was repeated and overtime in relation to the original announced time – this was in spite of the rhetoric of the same government about the urgent need for a message and action to put in place emission-reducing measures. When she finally arrived, she was judged by many to be so undercommittal that everything would depend on the budgetary follow-up for years to come. The details of the game around the climate negotiations I'm going to go by quickly, but don't let it be that it was more important for parts of the government to find an enemy than to make sure that the climate message became everyone's friend – so much for more democracy and more openness. But most people aren't so little awake that they ignored the game that got us involved. It shows innumerable media lookups all about, in layers with an empty press bench today. At the last crossroads of the climate in 2008, we were not invited. This time one had to resort to almost unethical tricks to keep the Progress Party out. It saw everyone who wanted to see it. If the goal was to establish a wedge in civil cooperation, the government did not close Stoltenberg and SV with it. I'm happy for all the clear messages that come from the civic side about this. What about our many proposals for measures that are not good for climate and the environment? In the introduction to our proposals, we are concerned not to replace symbolic policies with good and effective action – if necessary abroad – as it is not just a national problem we have to deal with, but a global one. Therefore, we ask that the most effective measures be placed where they are most effective. Isn't cost-benefit important for SV as the Progress Party thinks it is? Apparently not. But I record that SV thinks what they have is knowledge-based. Self-rescue shall a listen, for it comes from the heart, I have heard. Similarly, the Progress Party is aware that we are not chasing our industry out of the country through so-called carbon leakage, especially since we have an example of this through the establishment in Qatar and the transfer of production capacity there. The question is whether not the multiples are listed by this issue as the Progress Party is. The Progress Party also asks the government to develop more profitable hydropower and other CO2-neutral power generation, e.g. through the development of tissues and increased efforts to upgrade existing hydropower plants and to evaluate previous protective plans, with a view to increasing production with regard to new time-consuming technologies which are not detrimental to the protection objective. Does the majority not see that this will result in significant amounts of non-emission, renewable energy at a very low cost? The transfer of administrative responsibility to municipalities for small and medium-sized power stations could also bring significant benefits, as these local representatives are close to and competent in the local environment. Last, but not least, I want to make a commitment to the building and development of our welfare society in our long-term country. There is a commitment and desire to build effective, safe and environmentally friendly roads across the country, and the need for a solution is precarious. There is no contradiction between urban and urban public transport. But it is a fact that one should be able to stay outside the cities and towns, the car must be given viable conditions both when it comes to road standards and safety, and that one must have the opportunity to renew the car park, which will reduce emissions. But then we have to say yes to the proposals of the Progress Party on higher wreckage and lower one-time charges on newer cars. Norway can no longer agree to have Europe’s oldest car park with the environmental and security challenges it faces. So finally some words about global challenges related to energy. We are all aware that the poverty traps are linked to access to cheap energy. The world's poor needs new low-emission or zero-emission energy that they could get from the resources in thorium. This is not a national need, we know that. Norway has plenty of access to energy, and through our enormous values relating to the petroleum sector, we have a moral responsibility to research new forms of energy, such as energy. thorium technology could have ours. The fact that developing countries such as India are in the brink of thorium research through the construction of thorium plants for the production of electricity is a paradox. As the energy nation we are, and with the enormous resources that energy has given us, we should be able to use the necessary resources for this type of research.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2755	With this climate announcement, the government has given the forest the place it deserves in Norwegian climate policy. In the climate report, the government states that we are going to use the forest to ensure a high carbon capture of CO2, so that the carbon stock in the forest is constantly increasing. At the same time, we shall use forest resources to produce more renewable energy and wood materials. In Norway the forest covers about 30 pst. of the land area, and the forest takes up each year a CO2 amount corresponding to about half of the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. From 1990 until 2020, the annual net emissions of CO2 in Norwegian forests will increase by 12 million tonnes. Today's high carbon capture in the forest is a result of the work of wise predecessors – the generations before us – who have done through planting and active forestry. At the same time, forecasts show that if we do not implement active measures, the forest will absorb less CO2 in the future. Therefore, the government will follow the advice of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to maintain active and sustainable forest management. Now we're going to follow up and do our part of the job. In the future, forests will also be one of Norway’s most important contributions to achieving climate change targets. To achieve this, we need to have efforts in a number of areas. The first to be done is to increase the forest area by planting forests in new areas. Climate change has seen estimates of the effect of increasing forest land by 1 million and 5 million deches over 50 years. It will provide an annual additional take-up of 2,2 and 8 million tonnes of CO2 respectively. The Government shall provide a strategy for increasing planting on new areas. The development of ecological criteria will be an important and natural part of this strategy. Then we're going to increase the carbon stock in the forest through an active, sustainable forest policy. An active forest policy is based on several different actions that need to be taken together. In areas where it has been chopped, the densities of the plant shall be increased. The plants we're going to use should be better adapted to today's and tomorrow's climate. That is why we need to strengthen efforts in forest plant processing. Then we will reintroduce the ban on the hoarding of the jungle. The third is that the government will improve the incentives for extracting raw material for bioenergy. Particular attention shall be paid to the extraction of more waste at maximum levels such as branches and peaks, also referred to as GROT. More than half of the measures Climate change investigated, the use of bioenergy involved. The government’s objective of increasing the development of up to 14 TWh bioenergy by 2020 is therefore firm. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food already has an energy tile scheme, which is a good and targeted measure to increase the uptake of forest raw materials into bioenergy. The scheme has been very successful, and the activity has now become so high that the scheme runs out of funds long before the end of the year. We will also investigate a scheme of voluntary climate action in forests, including: the possibility of establishing cooperation agreements with landowners on the establishment of climate forests shall be explored. The idea behind this proposal is to capture a will or desire for more people to contribute to climate action on a voluntary basis. There are already examples of actors — among others: in Nord-Trøndelag County – finances forest carbon capture through forest planting, as ‘payment’ for emissions from an enterprise or emissions related to air travel. Then we will ensure a more conscious choice of climate-friendly construction materials in the construction sector, for example. wood materials which can cause less greenhouse gas emissions in a life-cycle context than other traditional materials. Three-based innovation programmes, funded by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and managed by Innovation Norway, are an important tool in this respect to increase the competence of good and forward-looking use of wood. Active forest use is a soil-based and concrete climate policy that can be launched from day one, without complex technology. This is also one of the cheapest climate measures we can do. It is also important to take the perspective that good use of forests in climate policy is also good industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2793	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2796	Governments talked a lot about forest in their posts, and little about livestock and the possibility of using biogas. With the majority consensus achieved, we on the Right are pleased that we are now going to have our own bioga strategy. We have a great potential for biogas, not least if it is upgraded to fuel. My question is: what will the Minister of Agriculture do to help us get a really offensive and good bioga strategy in this country, to the benefit of the climate, but also of all the farmers who have cows and other livestock, and where you can ease the requirements with regard to spreaders – hit several good flies in one taste when it comes to biogas production?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2803	Let me first say that I very much agree with the representative Meling that biogas bet is an important measure, and I am very happy that it is involved in the further work. We started with the biogas work already in St.meld. No 39 for 2008–2009, which was dealt with by the Stortinget in 2009, i.e. the agriculture’s own climate report. At that time, biogas production was one of the most important areas of activity that had been analysed there. In retrospect, we have seen that biogas is a very expensive measure. At the same time, it is important that we continue to work to develop systems so that we can use both food waste and animal waste for biogas production. I'm very busy doing it further, and I've already started it working through the fact that, in connection with the offer when it came to the agricultural agreement, we spent money on a pilot scheme for the use of biogas in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2810	Since the Council of State talked about forest and the representative Meling talked about biogas, I continue a little bit on biogas. It's like being a little patriot, and sometimes you can be, and coming from a city that's been around for a long time in the use of biogas -- Fredrikstad is such a city. Now we have agreed with the government that there is a need for a national cross-sectoral biogas strategy. Then the Minister of Agriculture can provide resources for such a strategy, the Minister of the Environment is responsible for climate, the Minister of Oil and Energy is responsible for energy, the Minister of Municipal and Regional Affairs is responsible for waste, and the Minister of Transport is allowed to use it. But all of these get space around a table, it just requires them to sit down. It is true, as the Council of State said, that it is a costly measure. In the light of the negotiations held by agriculture, a pilot scheme shall be put in place. But what else can we expect from this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2820	Firstly, I would like to stress, as I said in my reply to the previous replicator, that the work was reflected and worked thoroughly in connection with St.meld. No 39, dealt with at Stortinget in 2009. And then we have to realize that it's one of the more expensive measures, as we know the technology and the possibilities today. I am very concerned that we should work with the various actors, as the representative here underlines, in order to find out how we can make use of waste from both the livestock sector and food waste, and thus ensure that we have cost-effective solutions on biogas. The work must start with, among other things: look at a common strategy outlined here in the work on the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2827	I note the strong commitment of the Council of State to spruce. The Minister for the Environment now expressed in this process that he did not want any granaries in the West. The Left very much agrees, and there is nothing in this message that provides any basis for us to start with that kind of production, and that we are going to undermine the diversity of species, which is also an important part of the environment we are actually fighting for. So my question to the Council of State is whether he shares the statements and comments of the Minister of the Environment and the opinions of the Left when we signed this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2834	We share that view that we should actively exploit the forest for climate action. There are probably slightly different opinions in the different batches about how to use the forest in such a context. I think we're going to take that with us, given that the left-wing last time they were in government, there was a bit of the active forestry policy that we've reintroduced in retrospect. As regards the use of spruce, I would say that spruce is a natural part of Norwegian nature. We've had it since before the Ice Age, and of course we'll use it in the future. What we're discussing is how much we're going to use foreign spruce varieties, to what extent we're going to plant it in the future. I think we need to work together to find good solutions to this, as laid down in the new regulatory body created by the Ministry of the Environment, which is, of course, supported by us. We know that we're going to use fir in the future and at the same time take care of the natural diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2846	Some time ago, the government introduced a system of subsidies for heat production of wood on farm around Norway. It seems to be a good measure, especially in the light of the climate communication that has been agreed upon. Last year the box went empty early in the year, so that the last applicants were transferred to this year. Now it is said that the box for 2012 is already empty. How does the Council of States think it rhymes with the climate communication that is now agreed on, and what does he intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2853	The representative of Myraune probably believes that the energy fission system is not a system for the production of wood. The energy flexibility scheme is important. It was introduced several years ago, and we've continued it every year. It is true, as the representative Myraune stresses, that the success of this arrangement is great. It ran out of money last year, and the forecasts now are that there will be little money after August and beyond. We have spent the funds we have so far had on that scheme, and we will of course consider in the future budget how we will strengthen it in the future. I believe the work that has been done has been an important part in the climate action in forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2860	I have to take another question about biogas. As the Council of State, and in so far as the representative Line Henriette Hämdal, was concerned, this is an area where several departments and government councils are responsible: the Ministry of Finance has a responsibility, and the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. What happens in that kind of problem is that no one takes the ball and leads the ball with a view to fighting through a bet. My question and challenge to the Minister of Agriculture is: Will he take on that driving role and be captain for a proper bioga strategy, and that farmers around the whole of Norway are given the opportunity to take advantage of the fertiliser source as a complementary activity in the operation of their farms?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2867	As I mentioned in previous articles here, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is the only department that has made its own climate report. It was done in 2008-2009 and was dealt with in 2009. It states that the government wants to invest in biogas, and that was the most important measure from the agricultural side of this Communication. It's clear that when we're going to make a strategy, it has to involve many departments, as the climate agreement adds. I fully agree with that. It is quite obvious that since we started this job a long time ago and put some money through the offer in the agricultural negotiations, I would like to take on not a captain's role, so at least a challenge role, to ensure that we get results from that work. That work is important, but it is also important that we get cost-effective and good technological solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2874	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2877	The aim of this Communication to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to create new technology developments is reflected in Norway’s major ambitions in this area. With such great and important ambitions, it is important to have a broad consensus in Stortinget, and I am pleased that this is now the case. I must say that I am surprised by the argument of the Progress Party when we hear the representative Amundsen here today. I have to ask: what is so wrong with limiting emissions even if the Progress Party is right in its assumptions? Good climate policy should also be a good industrial policy, and Norway must also be at the forefront here. We see many examples of environmental measures creating jobs, not least in waste management and recycling. We now see that business is playing very well to find good solutions that are good both for the climate and for businesses. Creativity is great, and many wise heads are working intensively to adapt business to new and important environmental requirements. This has given good results, and will give many, many more. In Troms we have good evidence of this in the case of Finnfjord melting plant in the municipality of Lenvik in Troms. This company itself has taken action to modernise the company in an environmentally sound way, but what is happening at this company also shows how important it is with state-owned, good instruments such as drainage aid. Nor is there any doubt that our transport sector can become much more climate friendly. I travel a lot on Norwegian roads, especially up north. What strikes me is the huge traffic growth of car combinations that has happened in recent years. Fish and other important goods are to be moved quickly to the market, and the distances are both long and winding. I therefore believe that it is necessary to look at rail development also in the north as a climate and environmental project, and an important nutritional project to meet the efforts now being made in the north. Such goods transport will only increase in the years that come, if we're going to get what we want. We also have to have more goods across from road to sea, but this requires an even better infrastructure at sea, in terms of ports and fairways. Such an important measure along the Norwegian coast is City Ship Tunnel. Most people who have traveled by the sea and along the Norwegian coast know the Stadhavet. Realising this tunnel is a very important measure for the whole country and is undoubtedly both an environmental project, an industrial project and a project for safety at sea. Of course, we should also be concerned with limiting car traffic in cities, but we must not sacrifice the districts in the name of the climate struggle. Climate action that weakens rural housing and business will be very poor environmental policies. In districts, there are limited opportunities to increase capacity on public transport. All of us who are engaged in district policy and live in such areas know this. This must also be part of the assessment and arrangements must be considered where, for example: may be differentiated city-to-country solutions in terms of charges and restrictions on the use of private cars. Private cars and taxis are the most important collective services in the districts, and the population here must not be punished for not having a bus offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2894	The right is pleased that a climate announcement has finally come from the government. We have unfortunately had to ask for this message repeatedly. It is little clothing that, on the one hand, we define the climate challenge to be perhaps the greatest challenge of our time, while at the same time experiencing repeated postponements of the government's climate communication, which will guide and bring forward climate policy measures. Climate and energy are closely linked. Our well-being is mainly built around the petroleum resources on Norwegian soil, and fossil energy use is an essential part of greenhouse gas emissions. As a nation, we have a responsibility to contribute to solving this challenge, perhaps a greater responsibility than the size of the population, would suggest. Having said that, I will also express pride in our petroleum industry and the grips it has taken to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions on its Norwegian base, which makes them today far below what is average globally. Norway is well placed to contribute to the fight against global climate change. We have technology, we have strong environments of competence, and we have capital to actually make a difference. The challenges are great, and we need technological quantum leaps to realize the low-carbon society we want. We, as part of the rich world, need to show developing countries that it is possible to combine high living standards with low emissions, plus the importance of bringing down the costs of being able to rig to become a low-carbon country. In this context, the threat of greenhouse gas emissions will also provide an opportunity for Norwegian industry. The key to success lies a lot in the development of technology. One of the major grips of the climate notification is the creation of a climate technology fund, which will be fully funded in 2016. It is an important part of responding to climate challenges in an offensive way, namely by providing grants for both the development, testing and implementation of new and immature technologies and support for more mature technologies, such as: grants for the establishment or implementation of production. The right would have wanted more return from this fund and is to the extent satisfied that the return regime is not binding, because this means that another majority in 2013 has the opportunity to increase the return. The Norwegian industry believes, inter alia, that: environmental technology projects are equivalent to twice the amount currently in place, and this clearly demonstrates that the potential of technology development and implementation is greater than that envisaged by the government. I dare remind the government parties that the Research Fund was recently closed down, precisely because the return from the fund was too poor. Ten years' interest on government bonds is now below 2 pst. I would also like to point out that the process of dealing with the climate notification shows that the four civil parties can talk together in a good way, including in relation to climate issues, and that the Progress Party has been willing to deviate from parts of its primary position. This is good. It is a pity that the government parties, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have not wanted a cross-political consensus that also includes the Advance Party. This is obviously a game. This is the second time the opposition is saving the government's climate policy. We had to tighten up our policy in 2008 and have to do the same again now, in 2012. The Committee review has helped to make the climate notification more ambitious and committed in important areas, and we are pleased with that on the Right. The Plural setting is the result of an agreement between six of the lots here on Stortinget. I find it regrettable that the government parties did not want to have conversations with all the parties at Stortinget. The opposition parties negotiated as a block. There was therefore no reason to keep one of the lots out of further calls, not least because the requirements underlying the agreement were actually drawn up by all the four opposition parties together. Then all the parties should be allowed to negotiate about them as well. I am pleased that in many ways this process has brought the bourgeois parties together more strongly on these issues too, but I think it is a pity that the government parties fell for the temptation to make a game out of what it should have been focused on: action and real policy – and a maximum degree of consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2923	It feels good to be Minister of Transport from the Central Party and to be able to report that we are on the way. Ambitious targets were set in the Climate Action Communication in 2007. Despite strong growth in the transport sector, emissions would not increase. This target was considered to be not realistic from some holders and to be overly demanding. I am very pleased with the targets that have now been set for 2020, and to be able to report: we are well on track, the target will be achieved. Firstly, the government has reduced emissions from new cars – over five years – by 30 pst. through the conversion of charges. From being a worst in Europe, we're now among the best in the class. Secondly, we established Transnova. It's a very important ride. We have invested in infrastructure throughout the country, which makes us the world's most climate-friendly. We have the world's most climate-friendly policy for zero-emission cars. Thirdly, we have the multiplicity of the reward scheme. Four-year agreements allow us to establish a strong collective offer in cities, combined with restrictive measures against car traffic. It means better health, better environment and better accessibility in our urban areas. Trondheim stands there in a special position. They have, through their actions and with their agreement, been able to reduce 10 pst. in the case of motor vehicle traffic, and up to 30 pst. in the case of public transport. Never before have we built so many walking and cycling roads. The 2009 survey told us that the number of people who use cars is falling, and public transport is rising. A lot more people are now taking the train. So now there's a new message -- now there's a new wide deal in place. That is a very good basis for an offensive climate policy in the years to come. The government says that the growth of the population is coming in the metropolitan areas, and that transport challenges have to be addressed through public transport, cycling and walking. Then I can report that the government has upgraded the railway. We're ready for a new lift. This was not the situation in 2005. The investment is tripartite, the maintenance is strengthened by 70 pst., it is a lift of competence in the railway works, and we now have a settlement for intercity in the Austland to give us the opportunity to come back with a time fixing in the national transport plan. Then we asked the authorities through the NTP work to provide advice and suggestions on how the state can strengthen co-financing into urban areas. We've got advice. We have also proposed to double the effort for bicycles in the future. It is, of course, socio-economically very profitable. Let me say that Transnova is going to be permanent, and it also gives you new possibilities to bet on zero emitters. I'm happy with what's now going on in the agreement, that the different arrangements here are fixed to 2017. Then we're going to reduce the emission of new cars by 35 pst. This means additional changes in the environmental direction of the fees. Let me finally say: I am very pleased that transport is so much lifted up. A broad plural in Stortinget is behind it. I'm ready to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2945	The council said she was happy to be Minister of Transport. I want to say: Poor people who depend on the car, because there is no doubt that the drivers are going to take a lot of what the Minister of Transport is pleased about, through restrictive measures, rush time charges, road pricing, tolls and other traffic reduction measures. In the context of the negotiations, the Progress Party proposed that at least this should not be at the expense of the roads in the rest of the country, when a massive collective effort is to be agreed upon. Isn't it a little awkward to be Minister of Transport and represent a party that says they want to put the whole country into action, when the consequences are that the rest of the country will get smaller and worse roads, not better roads, because the Senter Party doesn't want to be part of a broad settlement where the Progress Party could be with and secure a real, good road network in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2952	Hoksrud's statements must come from a solid misunderstanding. In fact, from now on it is not going to be built around the country. On the contrary, our geography requires that we strengthen road construction in the districts, but at the same time it is absolutely crucial that, with the increase that a no-one sees in the population of our urban areas, the traffic must be achieved through public transport, cycling and walking. And then I want to add that we also have a unique opportunity to give more opportunities to live outside of our major cities. It would be a great advantage, both for those who today bused themselves in the largest press areas, and for the rest of the country. But a strengthened transport policy is going to be all over the country this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2961	Yes, I hear what the Council of State says, but I have also registered that representatives of the government parties have said that yes, the effort you want to make on a collective basis will go beyond the road allocations. That doesn't mean that that's what the Council of State says, that you're going to bet on building roads across the country. The problem is that we have a road network that rots pretty much all over the country. How are the Council of State gonna do it? Is it the climate agreement that is important, or is it the rule of action that matters to this government – and not least to the Council of State? The consequences now are that we have had a much larger maintenance loss on the road network than before the red-green government took over – perhaps because we have done something about the calculation models. However, there is no doubt that there has never been a greater downturn in the road network than it is now, based on the figures provided in the national transport plan, which came in February.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2968	As Hoksrud will be well aware, year after year the government has increased the path to both road and track. We're going to continue to do that. The big debate on this will take place in the context of the next National Transport Plan – the government will present the big news in spring 2013. There is now an extensive hearing round, which, on the one hand, supports the need to bind the country better together, especially in areas where there is no path, but, on the other hand, a solid emphasis on the force that still needs to be taken in the major urban areas. Fortunately, we already see results, but we have to step up our efforts for years to come in terms of public transport and bicycle and pedestrian routes in our urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2973	We're starting to get used to when the government councillor Meltveit Kleppa is going to make articles, that the first half of the article is a show-off list. In this context, it's a little interesting, because this has happened largely as a result of a climate deal that she made in 2008. But I think today we should talk about what we want to do, and not least how we're going to get there. Much of the responsibility for following up this further lies with us as the promoter of transport policy, and not least the Minister of Transport. One of the measures is the intercity link on the railway, which is of exceptional importance. This council has signalled great ambitions and refers to them as rapid expansion, but she does not mention the organisation. How will she organize to make a rapid expansion at the pace she has outlined?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2980	I thought that the representative Halleraker would be very happy when I now used my first two minutes to refer to what we've got for this period through a broad climate agreement, and then how we're going to get on the road. Because it was not clear that we could reach as far in 2012 as we have come precisely in the transport sector. Then to the road further – or the path further on, I must say. Yes, rapid expansion is important. It applies to both road and path, in this case it is path. Then we have to organize rationally, we have to spend more money, we have to plan faster, and we also have to build up smarter. We look at different types of organisation for road and track. I'll come back to it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2987	32 pst. of the greenhouse gases in Norway come from the transport sector — it is our largest sector. Targeted instruments are important, and targeted instruments are important for our entire long-term country, which is both good transport solutions and good climate and environmental solutions. In the Climate Action Communication, the government says that the population growth in the central eastern region ‘should be taken by public transport, bicycles and corridors’. I am pleased with the Minister for Transport's offensive statements to the VG on intercity trains: 'By 2025 we have as a clear objective that Intercity solutions should be in place', with a decision to be taken in this room until the next spring. [[...]] Then we have ‘12 years to project and build’, says the Council of State. VG is an important newspaper, but Storting's pulpit is even more important. Can the Council of State repeat its message to the VG readers, from this pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e2996	My ambition is to put in place an intercity project as quickly as possible, and the big projects that are being built right now are part of this strategy. Since the fall, we've got a deal that says more in detail what's going on both for money and for time to get intercity trains to Halden and Skien and Lillehammer in place in 2025. That's why I'm saying today that what was important to me was time fixing. It is still the most important thing. So different projects are to be set up against each other both in the government and in the Stortinget in the spring of 2013. It's supposed to be timing. The speed at which the whole distance is completed, I have to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3001	Now I'm going to test out a little bit what it's like to be on the team with Meltveit Kleppa. It is possible that the question is considered to be a test, and that is what it is meant to be: how will the climate agreement that is now on the table change the national transport plan, and how does the Council of State view the leadership of this agreement in relation to the proposals she is going to put on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3007	In one minute, I don't think I can answer it in full, but let me just say, first of all, all the formulations that relate to collective action, state involvement, spatial scope, and also environmental and climate considerations should be strengthened. It's the one. Then I have already agreed with the Minister for the Environment that after this debate and after this conciliation, which he has been even more on the inside of – of course – than I have, we should discuss even more concretely in what way we should follow up on what has been said in the message and the conciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3014	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3019	The climate problem is the greatest challenge of our time. The threat of climate change is boundless, and therefore it is also a theme that requires new solutions, both nationally and internationally. I would also like to say that the emerging generation, which is to take over the globe after us, deserves a predictable, responsible and ambitious climate policy. It requires long-term policy. That's why it's very good that there are now six parties that are united on climate policy for the years to come. The 2008 climate settlement partners have taken a major step further, and I would like to praise and thank all five of our negotiating partners for across the political scale. Then I would like to add that for the Workers' Party, the entrance to these questions is that it is both possible and absolutely necessary to combine responsibility for the climate in terms of securing Norwegian jobs for the decades to come. For the Workers' Party, therefore, good climate policy and good industrial policy go hand in hand. Firstly, what we have now done is to ensure predictability in policy. Secondly, it is a matter of the polluter paying, and so on, of cutting emissions. Thirdly, Norwegian business, which is highly adaptable, will also be able to cope with climate change and climate change. It also follows the climate notification and reconciled with the technology fund where the community is involved in billing both to develop and implement new technologies that help Norwegian business to cope with the changes required by the climate problem. Few countries in this world have greater opportunities and better assumptions than Norway has to deal with climate change and change, but also to contribute to solutions. We are not solving the climate problem alone in Norway, but with the large majority of people adopting it today, we are making a right and important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3028	There has been a lot of praise for how great this agreement has been. I'm not going to go into it, it's the other thing that's probably going to do more of it. The representative of Egeland says that there is no more important issue in the world than doing something about climate policy – perhaps with the exception of the rule of action then, of which he is part. But what is the concrete proposal in the transport sector, which is the area I work on every day? Yes, the electric car proposal is very good, but why are we going to set a limit of 50,000 cars? It should be open, we should say it's great. If it really is that you want to reduce climate change as much as possible, there should be a hallelujah mood whether it was 50,000 or 100,000. I know that it is just beyond 6,000 cars that are registered now, but today we saw some amazing new cars that make it actually interesting for many more people to go to buy an electric car. I think it's stupid that the most concrete thing you can do here is a maximum of 50,000, and we're going to evaluate what we're doing. It should at least be 100,000, as the Elbow Association stood on the outside here and challenged us today. It is good to want more environmentally friendly fuels. Yes, that was why the exemption from biofuels was removed or, therefore, a mineral oil tax was imposed on GTL, which is not a mineral oil, because we are concerned about doing something about climate and climate challenges. I'm actually starting to trick. When I see all the suggestions that lie here, it's very good Christmas and good wishes, but very little concrete. The progress party is engaged in expanding the intercity triangle. The Minister of Transport was challenged in the change of line. Could she not at least be concrete and say that by 2023 the entire intercity triangle between Skien-Lillehammer-Oslo and Oslo-Halden must be built out? It would be ambitious, it would be taking the climate challenges seriously. However, the majority are not there to be assessed, but come back in the national transport plan. Similarly, when it comes to other collective areas, you have to look at how to increase the collective share in the big cities. It's going to be a plan, we're going to get back to it. If you had a real climate announcement with something you really wanted, that would have been concrete goals. Today we had a seminar with the construction industry in road and rail. They say: Can't you be tough and say that until then it has to be done, we deliver it – not such bad formulations that are not binding? In the transport sector there is a lot of good words, and I have heard a lot of praises today, as I said. But I have seen incredibly little concrete in what is in the climate communication. The progress party could be involved in a lot of what's there, but because someone wants a political game, instead of getting a full solution with all the parties, they chose to want a conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3041	The man-made climate change presents us with great challenges, but also great opportunities if one meets it early and offensively. For a conservative party like the Right, it is essential to establish a precautionary principle and at the same time ensure that we do not give our descendants the job of cleaning up after us. In the 2008 climate agreement, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left contributed to our setting more ambitious targets in climate policy. The Climate Communication should give us the answers on how to achieve these objectives. Therefore, the Right has been impatient with the repeated postponement of this message by the Government. The longer it goes, the harder it is to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. The Government's request that the Party should not be seen at the negotiating table put the possibility of a wide-ranging settlement at risk. But for the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, it was more important to achieve results than to continue the game. But not results at all costs. We negotiated on the basis of the requirements that we had also agreed with the Progress Party. That is why the majority of the proposals today will also be adopted unanimously. One can in many ways say that this process not only contributed to a better climate communication, but also contributed to a better climate-climate between the non-socialist parties. We believed that the government had spent too long on getting the message ready, and therefore in the negotiations was particularly concerned about getting more obligating measures and money already in 2013. Had we not got to this, much of the need for a settlement would have been gone. After 2013, we will in any case work to ensure that the majority has an even more ambitious policy. From the agreement, I would like to highlight in particular a strengthened and better reward system for public transport in the big cities, the fact that concrete measures have already been put in place in 2013 to phase out oil firing around the country, both in private homes and in public homes, and I would like to draw up a strengthened environmental technology fund. Whether this is the last time there is a disagreement about how the fund's returns are to be set. From the Right, we want to work to get a greater return, so that you can phase in more quickly when it comes to developing new, environmentally friendly technologies. Norway has the best starting point for being a leading country in this area, if a more ambitious policy is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3056	There is a danger that there will be a speck when talking after speech repeats that today we are discussing what is the most important question of our time. Nevertheless, that's right, because whether we're able to avert dramatic global warming or not in the years to come determines whether we're going to achieve all of our other important political goals. That's what's related to limiting war and conflict, what's related to providing food and water to everyone, and that's what's related to ensuring that we avoid large, involuntary movements of people in the world. It will also determine what framework conditions we will have to develop our welfare society further. What we get today is a new floor in Norwegian climate policy. A new common platform from which we are to build on climate policy is given a broad majority in this Chamber. In the climate communication underlying the agreement, there is a significant impact on a way of thinking about climate policy that SV has been facing for a long time. It is linked to the need for national targets, to the implementation of measures – sector by sector – and to the recognition that we also need action in the sectors covered by quota systems. It's a recognition that we can't help solving climate problems just through out-of-the-world trading. We also need to take action as monks at home in Norway. What also permeates the climate communication is a clear understanding that it is also a contribution to its own future well-being and prosperity. It is by being early in the transition that the world must undergo, that Norway can ensure that we have a competitive business life, that we develop the jobs of the future, and that we create a society that gets better and not worse to live in, for all of us. The low-emission society will be a fantastic society. We need to get away from a debate that draws a picture of the fact that reducing greenhouse gas emissions is primarily about victims and failures. Instead, it's about creating what we're going to live on tomorrow, it's about increased prosperity, it's about better cars and houses, it's about new jobs, new industry, innovation and new technology. Fantastic opportunities for those communities that know how to arrest them. I would like to thank the opposition – three out of four parties – for their constructive contribution to concreteisation on some important points of what has been presented in the Climate Change Communication. It gives us a predictability that this floor will be built on. What we are adopting today is no thanks for climate policy and therefore no end point for the climate debate. Now we need to further challenge each other on the political will and courage needed to achieve what we agreed today, and draw it even further, so that we can achieve the goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3071	There is broad agreement on the Storting, and I would like to thank everyone who has been there and who has contributed to it. We gather on 17 January 2008, and we gather again on 7 June 2012. We have a very good tradition in Norway: when it's big, important things, we're just gathering in broad terms. There are issues of taxation and new tax systems. It applies if there are issues about a new pension scheme. It is valid in terms of the separation of state and church, and it is valid in terms of climate issues. This time, we have the incentive to get both better and more ambitious responses. I'm very happy about that. What has been important now is that we have been given guidance. Many people have picked up the electric cars. There are also several people who have mentioned that we have now taken the first steps towards a climate law, after inspiration from the United Kingdom. What I want to mention is that we're now also making the state contribute when it comes to urban railways and large collective measures within our cities. We need it, because today we have a big paradox, that we have big urban packages that are designed so that if we close with what is meant, and get more people to travel collectively, the funding under the city packages disappears. If we are closed by several trips collectively, there will be fewer driving cars, and we are in the situation where the funding disappears during that construction. That is why we have done both good and important actions. I also have to say something about the process. The government party chose to negotiate in committee. There is the Progress Party, there is not the Left, like, among others. were parties to the 2008 conciliation. But I am very pleased that even if the negotiations broke down, the government party came back and took a new initiative. The Christian People's Party had also been open for the Progress Party to be involved in those negotiations, even though I thought, during the Per-Willy Amundsen speech today, that one must have been strong in the faith that it would lead. But that's the Christian People's Party, and we're also taking on a challenge. What I want to say is that these negotiations have given me greater faith in just cooperating with the Right, who has shown an understanding of the importance of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3088	SV has claimed for 30 years that good environmental policies can be good industrial policies. There is now a wide-ranging view of both business and policy-makers, and there is a key element in the climate communication. That's SV very happy. In the 1980s, the Norwegian process industry faced major environmental challenges. Industry took the challenges and put technology into action. This led to their strengthening of competitiveness and resulted in their development of an export technology. We would hardly have had a process industry in Norway today if we had not had an offensive environmental policy in the 1980s. So already then a good climate policy – a good environmental policy – strengthened Norwegian industry. Another good example of good environmental policy being good business policy is the NOX. When we got the challenges with NOX, and they got to know, and we were going to do something about it, we were going to bet on a collaboration between the Ministry of the Environment and the industry. This has led us to over-fill the goal of reducing NOX emissions. At the same time, we have strengthened the competitiveness of fishing and shipping. There are, not least, several shipyards in the South and Western countries producing environmental technologies, which are a new market they can enter. It brings me to the fact that environmental technology is a highly expanding market. If you read the UN statement, you will see that environmental technology is one of the strongest growing international markets. When I arrived at Stortinget, one of the things I work hard to get in place, the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway, which is one of the arrangements I get the most credit for when I travel to different companies. The environmental technology system has brought Norwegian industry into a forward-looking market, i.e. the renewable energy market and various forms of clean-up technology. With what is now happening in the climate communication, with the Climate Action Fund, we are raising the focus on environmental technologies, and thus on cooperation between climate and industry, to a new level. We have three positive effects: we have reduced CO2 emissions, we have increased competitiveness for industry, and we have developed a product that allows us to reduce CO2 emissions in other countries, much more than we do at home, because Norway is a high-tech country, which can develop technology that will take a long time to develop in countries with poor technology bases. Hence, we have a cheek egg, CO2 reduction in Norway, strengthened industry and CO2 reduction worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3122	The President requests that those who have the floor remain within the allotted speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3125	It's good that most people are happy today. So am I. The Climate Communication represents a whole that takes into account both the climate and the industry. The agreement that has been reached has also been well received both in the trade union movement and in the companies around. I am pleased that the government has provided a basis that has brought together such broad support. It is a good craft that has been presented. It is good for a majority to stress that if the world is to succeed in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions over the next ten years, it is essential that new technological solutions are developed. It is important to stress that offensive national climate policies need to be designed in such a way that they also become good business policies. Climate policy should help to further develop and transform our business into a climate-friendly direction, and to make it even more competitive. Technological developments are central here. It is also important to stress the importance of preventing so-called carbon leakage. The relocation of industrial production to other parts of the world, with less extensive climate requirements due to strange conditions or, more precisely, strange framework conditions, must not happen. Norwegian industry is in many areas the most environmentally friendly in the world, and it would be very unfortunate for the global climate if Norwegian industrial production were to be moved to land with less or worse climate policies. It is also good that Norwegian enterprises, research communities and organisations have the competence and knowledge to make a difference in the climate of the future. Norway is privileged and has a financial opportunity to invest heavily in this. But it requires cooperation between business, research environments, and, not least, political authorities. This is a good deal for a better climate. That, in addition, our wealth came largely from the production of fossil energy, this responsibility does nothing less. We want a national commitment to climate technology. This promises good for industrial development in this country and for the future. Finally, I agree with the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen that when you talk about what we're facing in this country about transport challenges, I'm not the least in doubt that the City Ship Tunnel is a good environmental project. Nor am I least in doubt that we also need to develop the routes we have, and here I am thinking especially of the Nordlandsbanen and Ofotbanen. And then we'll also see the future in a meeting of a Northern Region bet, to look at the possibility of further developing the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3140	After much progress and back, the government finally managed to submit a climate report. It is obvious that there has been a lot of grievance in the government, and the message is very clear about it. Too little and too late is a suitable expression for what was presented. When the message has finally been handled, our work has been done well and targeted by the case spokespersons of Astrup. It has been the right man in the right place. Unfortunately, we cannot say the same thing about the government's contribution. It was quite embarrassing to right-wing parliamentary leader Helga Pedersen from the Workers' Party on TV 2 after the Climate Communication was presented by the Energy and Environment Committee, and her attempt to explain why the government party would not have included the Progress Party in the negotiations. It was thin, to say it mildly. The party of progress has been clean in committee management and had sparked far greater respect from the government parties. It is worth noting that the four bourgeois parties were united on common demands for the government for a much more ambitious climate policy than the government party was able to present itself. It is also very gratifying to see that a citizen can have a substantive and good discussion about important climate action. Promises good for the future. There are many important themes in the climate communication. The majority of the Committee points out that the transport sector is the largest emissions sector, mainly outside the quota system, and that this sector has the highest potential for domestic greenhouse gas cuts. An important measure to achieve this is to get a greater share of freight from road to rail and maritime transport. This is an important signal for those who work for better conditions for the shortship fleet. Safe fairways and better framework conditions are important instruments, and, as the representative of Arnesen pointed out, the City Tunnel is an important project for achieving such a goal. Another theme that is also shown in the message is the cruise boat and ferry shore. These will be important measures both to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and not least to reduce impurity. In the beautiful fjords of the West there is great traffic of cruise ships. When there are three or four large boats at the same time in a crowded fjord, it goes without saying that one also notices the air quality. Proposals for a new high-end shore-space connection standard for ships in port are now approved, including: for cruise ships. Color Line has already started operating such a plant in Oslo. Several pilot projects are now being initiated in Norway and will seek state support through Transnova. This is good for the climate, and it's good for those who live on the beautiful travel meters we have in many of our fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3160	If there are partly overlapping views between the Right and the Advance Party, the Progress Party remains in a particular class among the parties in Norway in terms of climate policy. It would simply not have been possible to reach an agreement at the time we had, if the Progress Party had been there. I think that is confirmed when we look at the comments and listen to the representatives of the Progress Party here today. The Progress Party is special in that it has not yet accepted general knowledge of climate change. The fact that there is a discussion about research status in several countries does not mean that there is substantial disagreement about the fact that climate change is man-made. In the European context, Norway is unfortunately distinguished by the fact that we have many climate skeptics, and that we have a party of such size as the Progress Party, which is prejudicial to such climate-sceptical views. The well-known climate negator and welding professor Goldberg in Sweden also says that he has one party in the Nordic region that he can trust, and that is the Progress Party. So you can say, as the Progress Party does, that you can believe what you want, you can believe in witches; it's not that dangerous, just that you're involved in the right measures. But now it is that not only does the Progress Party deny the reasons, they do not agree with the objectives in terms of cuts, nor does they agree with the fundamental principle that polluter pays. They say that they're more too carrots than whips. In the market economy, there is talk of competition. If you want to sell a product, you can't set the price both on the product you want to sell, and on the item you want people to stop buying. But that's what the Progress Party is doing. The next year, we will have a challenging situation with priority for funds in the field of transport. The Climate Communication said that in NTP we should have a time-frame for new intercity networks, and the majority assume that it will take place quickly. But we can't both build trains and highways in central struts. We cannot expand infrastructure with urban railways and public transport and at the same time facilitate increased car growth. It will be too demanding economically, but the most important thing is that it will achieve the objective of taking growth in urban traffic with public transport or increasing walking and cycling. That is why I am very pleased that there is now a clear majority in favour of using car charges to dampen the total transport work, turn transport from motor vehicle to public transport, continue to have a reward scheme based on car reduction measures, while at the same time charging will continue to be used to promote a more energy-efficient car fleet and more environmentally friendly fuel.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3175	As several people before me have said, the case that is being dealt with today must certainly be considered to be one of the most important issues raised by the Stortinget during this period. The environmental and climate challenges are the greatest challenges of our time. They must be resolved through international agreements, and they must be resolved in each country. No one can volunteer. In SV we are very pleased with what was the government's proposal for climate communication. We were involved in making it, and we're very pleased that there's been a broad deal here in Stortinget. This means that the climate policy adopted today will be implemented independently of future peaks. I will briefly comment on some of the points in the Communication on the transport sector. The sector emissions are 32 pst. of the total emissions. There's got to be a take-off in the years to come. The notification also provides clear guidance on action. The main focus is on strengthening public transport in major cities and rail. Here's a broad consensus. I would like to add that in the years to come, it will also be important to focus on public transport outside major cities, perhaps with the main focus on making the transport sector itself more climate-friendly, with a transition to low emissions. We talk about speedboats, ferries and buses – and take the Hurtigruten. The speedboats that run along the entire Norwegian coast emit almost as much greenhouse gases as aircraft. In the future, therefore, we need an incentive scheme that stimulates municipalities and collective societies to move quickly to low-emission engines – low-emission machines. I stress this, because the experience of my own home country – Northern Ireland, one of the major collective states – is that because it was too expensive, a choice had to be made between the most environmentally friendly options in the last round of tenders for ferries. It blew up the financial framework. It can't be like that in the future. It will not be possible to achieve this within the normal framework of the local government sector. We're going to need a separate incentive scheme for this. So I would like to encourage the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Environmental Protection to follow it up in the further work on the National Transport Plan, which is coming next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3188	Although it has been said before, I think you can bear that it is said again: this case is perhaps the most important we are dealing with in the Storting in this session. Since I have not participated directly in the negotiations, I think I can allow myself to boast about what I have done here. A settlement which this obligatorises. We should not just build on climate policy, but this will also be important for the transport policy we are going to pursue. The role of transport policy is obvious. That's where we can make clear and concrete grips. Collective transport is such a policy area. We in the Right one year ago put forward our own collective transport plan, and I'm very glad that very many of the measures that we went into now have got a place in what I would call a binding climate and collective settlement. In order not to be suffocated by ever longer queues on the roads, new solutions are needed. I think that's what most people now see. These are solutions that are going to cost. Therefore, we would double the incentive scheme – called the reward scheme – for public transport. It's happening now. Now the goal is to get it up to 1 billion. kr. We arranged for the state to commit to 50 pst. of investments in new urban railways and superbuses. It is also part of the objective of this agreement – at least in principle. This is forward-looking. All growth in passenger transport needs to be in the collective sector. But we also need to think new, think smarter and develop models that allow us to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. It concerns organisation, but not least funding models. The ambitions of the agreement do not harmonize with the response of Meltveit Kleppa today on how to achieve the objectives. Therefore, I am disappointed that neither the representative Hemdal nor I received an answer on how to achieve her stated ambitions about intercity connections and other rail connections quickly. We have the answer to this. We need to have project organisation models, call it project financing. We also want an entry of Public Private Cooperation — OPS — in those models. We think it's a forward-looking solution that allows us to uncouple these major projects from the annual budgetary discussions here in the Stortinget, and realize them according to an Avinor model.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3205	I'm not going to talk about games, about conciliation, or about negotiations, but just say that I'm really happy that we've managed to get a broad deal on the future climate policy. As a central party, the administration idea is our reflex – our conscience. We're going to hand over the earth to our descendants in at least as good a condition as it was when we sailed over it. With today's climate challenges, it's a challenging task. The climate agreement points to the way in which we in Norway should do our part of the global job in order to be able to deliver the earth in good condition to our descendants. Combating harmful climate change is not just about what we should not do, and what we should end with. It's just as much about how we can better use our resources, and how we can take advantage of the amazing opportunities Norway has. It is also about letting earth’s lungs — forestry — be part of the solution. It's about keeping this pulmonary function just a good way. The forest cycle becomes part of the solution with the climate message. We're going to actively use forest resources. More woodland shall be planted; better cropping shall be facilitated. The work shall be used for construction and for energy to supply Norwegian households. It is at the heart of the administrator's idea to develop policies that take up the long lines! Then it's about technology development and new solutions for the environment. The Climate Change Fund for technology development is a tool for getting the opportunities out. In addition to green certificates, there are now greater opportunities than ever to put in place solutions that take us from the fossil and over into the renewable society. According to Energy Norway, we have to employ 1,500 new heads in the power industry each year for the next five years, partly as a result of rejuvenation of the workforce, but also as a result of increased activity. It's joyous, but it reminds us at the same time of what's most important for us to be able to achieve our goals. We need the good heads, and we get them through good education. That's why we need a real-life job, a practical job and a high school drop-out. Center parts are practical, we like to focus on practical solutions. If we don't achieve exactly everything we want, it's important to focus on solutions rather than problems. That is why we are pleased that climate policy is now firmly established in a broad agreement that will last for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3222	It is also most appropriate to thank several generations of forest owners and forest managers here today when we debate this important matter. We can read that standing volumes in Norwegian forests have doubled in the last 80 years. Climate policy and CO2 were not now the objective of these forest owners and forestry users with the forest management, but it was to exploit the production capacity in Norwegian outland. They did so well that we can today benefit from it in such an important area as climate policy. That's what I think it's in place that we also thank these skilled professionals for this position. I also think that the Minister of Agriculture had a good description of this very relationship in his main post. The administrative responsibilities that this industry has shown over the past 80 years are, of course, a lot of the comments in the matter: we will continue to do so, and we will even reinforce that by focusing on measures to increase forest production and increase crop yield levels. After all, logging is not an exchange of stored CO2 immediately. On the contrary, increased use of wood fibre in the Norwegian community is a contribution to increased storage, and thus also increased binding, by allowing us to produce new forests on the liberated areas. Then I also want to underline another thing that the forest industry in Norway is noticing. Indeed, they have been given the opportunity through forest policy, by several governments, to operate their industry under the principle of freedom under responsibility. In this way they have addressed species diversity, they have taken environmental into account, and now they have the opportunity to contribute with climate action and, not least, also as a result of it, with economic development. So these are many good sides and dimensions of this important thing, and we have many we can thank for getting where we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3239	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Nikolai Astrup, for the work that has been done – both that which has been done formally, and that which has also been informally said and done – and I am particularly pleased that from day one onward, the Left, which is not in the Committee, should also be involved in this work in an appropriate way. I registered that when the government sent out the message, the message received a good reception in most camps. It is a communication that goes beyond the objectives, as they stand in the 2008 climate agreement. If that has been said many times, I say so too: climate challenges are among the main challenges we face, and climate change is closely linked to other major challenges, such as hunger and environmental disasters. The fact that many have said that also shows here that the market description, that reality, shares the majority. It's important. A good solution to climate problems requires considerable efforts both nationally and internationally, and the climate communication is increasing efforts on both of these arenas. For the Workers' Party, a key point has been that good climate policy is good enterprise policy – that this is related. We need to set up climate policy to strengthen Norwegian business out of the climate debate. I believe that the climate report reflects this goal. I am particularly pleased that the message is so clear on the importance of investing in public transport. The transport system around large cities collapses if traffic growth is to be taken with passenger cars. It's the simple, but at the same time complicated truth that we have to take over as politicians. That is why it is also so important that the government in the climate communication states that the growth of transport in large cities should be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. There's one need to show again when we're going to start working with the NTP. For the Workers' Party, it has been clear and clear from day one, when the message was presented, that we wanted a broad majority behind the message. Therefore, it is very good to note that the Storting shows a capacity and willingness to gather on such an important issue as climate. Here, as the representative Marianne Marthinsen said earlier today, we are pursuing ‘policy in a generation perspective’, and then it is very central to ensuring consensus across political dividing lines. Today, when many have said that one of the main challenges is climate policy, it is not surprising that the principles and the description of reality that are then prejudiced and taken into account are the basis for an actual proposal of the measures proposed. One shows in the hall here today that there's not quite a consensus on what reality looks like. Then I also want to say in the end that I commend both Nikolai Astrup and – not least – State Council Solhjell, who, when there was a break, nevertheless spoke together across both the one and the other, and got up a dialogue that allowed the Storting to adopt today a climate settlement that will stand beyond 2013 – and beyond a game that one could have risked getting about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3256	I also want to congratulate the case rapporteur, Nikolai Astrup, on his good work. Being able to get involved in a settlement is very good. One of the finest things about the climate deal we've had on Stortinget is that it shows a national assembly that is addressing the threat that man-made climate change actually represents. The threat of climate change is a frightening example of how incredibly difficult it is for too many to act even in response to a completely concrete and tangible and ultimately existential threat. Meeting such a threat requires a capacity for cooperation and a willingness to change. Although in the daily changing of words in Norwegian politics there may be considerable distances between the parties in climate policy, it is one of the most beautiful features of Norwegian democracy that the parties manage to reconcile important political issues – of course given that the comparisons are good enough. In this case, it's a lot to enjoy. I believe that the effort on public transport may be something that stands my heart extra close. In Red-Green Trondheim, the will to invest in both traffic regulation and rewarding measures has borne fruit in a short time. There are many more who use public transport, punctuality has increased, and car use has plunged into the center. It's good for the climate, it's like in the other big cities in Norway, good to take away the great growth in the region, it's good for all those who rely on public transport to make everyday life go up, and it's very good for the many who are struggling with asthma and allergies. Measures that increase collective use and lower car density are very, very good examples that climate policy is not primarily about delays and burdens, but about the ability to better organise and find smarter solutions and develop healthier alternatives. The same applies to climate funds. Part of the debate has got the impression that measures in the quota sector in Norway are almost some sort of organised industrial death. It was even a representative from the Progress Party who called it all self-harm, and that is, of course, just customs. The representatives of Holmelid and Lysbakken are quite right in saying that climate action is important – climate action that creates safer jobs, creating new jobs, creating better accessibility and cleaner air. It is difficult to understand how to stand on the side of such measures, and it is even more difficult to understand how to polemise against them. In the end, I want to bring forward one actor that has been incredibly important, and that is going to continue to be one of the most important premiscuous suppliers of Norwegian climate policy, and that is the environmental movement. They do a great job, they set the agenda, they're clear drivers. I especially want to mention Nature and Youth, which combine enormous will with enormous knowledge. I don't think Norwegian climate policy would have taken the steps ahead as it does now, without their contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3269	Talking about others’ posts as ‘only customs’ is not a good parliamentary expression and should not be used in this Chamber in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3272	Unlike the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, I believe that the climate communication and agreement are reasonable offensive and concrete when it comes to measures in the transport sector. This is necessary because the transport sector stands for 32 pst. of CO2 emissions, and road traffic is a major part of this. The challenge is to reduce emissions while increasing traffic in time. In this context, efforts have been made to promote public transport by means of an increased share-taking system and other measures; there are walking and cycling roads with a doubling of the effort there; there is an expansion of the rail system, and there is not least focus on low-carbon cars. I almost felt that the representative Hoksrud had the rule of action that oversees climate action, almost hassled with this initiative, for here it should be more concrete, more ambitious, and one could ignore the use of money and the rule of action. When it comes to these different areas, when it comes to electric cars, there are, of course, many low-exploitation cars for a total of measures, such as: through Transnova, which can contribute to the development of charging stations, through Enova – we actually use Innovation Norway as a tool, and it is conducive to research and development, etc. The most important measure is simply to create a market for these cars. It's just through giving them such a competitive advantage as they've been given. Then one also sees that the technology on the cars is developing, and that we are getting better electric cars and other low-speed cars in the future. When it comes to rail and intercity development, Hoksrud says that this should have our fixed time clearly in the climate communication. I am a little surprised that the transport politician Hoksrud will remove this from the transport plan. Such a large and important transport measure and its consequences must be seen in the context of transport and transport efforts. I'm so absolute that this should be fixed as quickly as possible, but it's in the traffic plan this is home. Walking and cycling is extremely important, and there I will come with a call to follow up, that one primarily looks at the schooling of young people and prioritizes action there. It will have great significance for safety, but also for climate, because it's totally unthinkable that parents should be forced to drive kids who might have a mile or two to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3288	This is an important debate on an important topic. It's interesting to be one of the few who was involved and discussed the climate at the previous conciliation, who also participate this time. I find that the government at the previous climate announcement was going to put the globe on a new course, and this time it has reached a slightly more ground level. That's good. Many of the warnings that the Progress Party came into the previous debate have proved to be correct. There were objectives and instruments that did not stand in the way, and where the objectives then are the ones that are being sacrificed. This is, to a large extent, because this means that it has become better and easier for Norwegian businesses to continue to operate in Norway rather than to respond to the objectives specific to SV in the previous climate debate. In this way, I give all credit to the government, and especially, for having moderated its policy significantly. It also makes the Progress Party think it has been very good to have been in the two climate negotiations – as long as we were allowed to. But we felt that it was obviously a little uncomfortable for some that a party like the Progress Party was still sitting at the table, and we were squandered. But that matter has covered enough of the media. What was important for the Progress Party was how we could help improve our policy so that we could continue to cut emissions, but at the same time improve the infrastructure and energy supply in Norway – but in a more environmentally friendly way, in a more nutritious way and not least in a more consumer-friendly way. I think that the opposition here has taken a lot of good steps in the right direction, I would like to extend a very big thank you to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have contributed to furthering the views of the Progress Party into the conciliation, so that there is actually also a good progress party stamp on many of the proposals. But there's a lot more one could have done. I would like to remind you that the NHO – when they made their 2009 electoral guide – is called the Progress Party to be the most entrepreneurial party and the best party when it comes to pursuing a good climate policy. This combination satisfied the NHO. This is in stark contrast to the way that, for example: SV responded when the NHO came with their review of the previous climate agreement, when SV asked them to tighten up and go out the hall. For example, the Progress Party would like to see something done about it. the climate fund. It is very good that we get a climate fund in place, but it is a little strange that last autumn a research fund that was funded in exactly the same way as you are now financing the climate fund. It was said that the research fund was funded in an ‘unforeseeable way’, that it was not appropriate to carry out research funding in this way, but now when a climate action is to be undertaken, it is precisely the model that you didn’t think was good enough last year. We have pointed to the NOX fund, which this government has introduced after pressure from the Progress Party and the Right. That way should have grounded. It would provide much more money for industry — both in the short and long term — than the government is currently doing. The same is true of public transport: a given tax exemption for collective cards paid by the employer. That would lead 175 000 drivers to public transport – because they themselves want and not because they are forced. These are constructive approaches for which the Progress Party would have had a majority, but for which we now have to wait four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3308	Fortunately, this has been a debate that has been about climate and not about the Progress Party. But there have been so many articles that have asked questions about what it would have been possible to get together with the Progress Party, that I think it is right to make a comment to that end. The representative Per-Willy Amundsen had an intervention at the beginning of the debate today, which was a mixture of anger that the Progress Party was not part of a settlement – which the representative himself obviously did not see any good political reasons for us to have at all – and long layoffs as to why there is no obvious reason to worry about climate change. We also woke up this morning to a radio station where the same representative declared himself to be a climate skeptic. If anyone has been in doubt as to why it was difficult – and would have been difficult – to come to an agreement here in Stortinget that also included the Progress Party, I would recommend a reading of Amundsen's posts. It was a contribution to the central parts not only of the climate communication, but of the settlement that has been concluded. It was a clear desire not to give priority to public transport over roads in large cities, a no to the new standards we have promised relating to passive houses, a no to the ban on oil firing and a clear rejection of the need for national targets. These are both key points in the conciliation and crucial points in the notification. I have also seen that the Progress Party has said and written that when you're unsure about the degree of human interference in global warming, it's because you point to things that happen in the cosmic space. But there are limits to how far out in the cosmic space you can find – and at the same time demand to be involved and play a role in the negotiating space. It is necessary that those involved in these kinds of processes also have credibility that they really want something about it – something other than games. We tried from the government parties to agree with all the parties on the Stortinget. If this had led, we would have had a deal with all the parties. They call the facts that this did not lead, while a process with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, on the other hand, produced results. That's the only reason it was the course we chose – after the first race didn't lead. I think that this debate so far has shown that it was a wise and necessary assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3322	I will be allowed to join in the range of all those who say that they are happy about the matter we now have for treatment. This is one of the biggest issues that we have to deal with politically during this period, and I think it is a great honour for Stortinget to establish such a broad basis for a theme that will become a major theme for many, many years to come. But I also have to say that I am very happy that biology now has a place in climate policy. For I have been present in this hall and heard that someone has thought that forest and CO2 binding in the forest should not be counted on. It has always been a reality in the real world that a binding CO2 in the forest – everyone who was in school the day we had about photosynthesis – but this has not always been good Latin; symbolism has overruled the biological realities. The fact that we are actually going to operate an active forestry industry now seems to me to be very well taken care of in that message and not least in the setting that is now available. Now the Minister of Agriculture said we shouldn't be mowing the jungle. I assume that he did not mean that we should stop thinning in the fields of plants and thinning in the jungle – but not the end-effect. But it's a reality that if we're going to be able to use the forest as efficiently as possible to bind CO2, we should cut the forest that's grown. Then we should plant new plants that bind CO2 while using the forest that we took out – either as an alternative to fossil energy or to bind it in barley and have CO2 bonds for a long time to come. I'm so lucky that I've been allowed to put out well and well 100,000 seedlings – that would give me a pretty good CO2 ratio – but the prerequisite for being able to plant those plants was that one had hogd the forest first. That seems to me to be well understood in this communication, which points to the fact that the forest trip in Norway took place at a time when Norway was a poor country. Then a few years ago, we were in the situation that we might be the generation that both took out the disposable resources from oil and gas and not reinvested in new renewable energy. Here we take the opposite – use the forest actively, make sure to plant, so that we bind CO2 for the future. I am pleased that I perceive that we are now going to take into account nature itself in the future in the field of nature protection, including in relation to climate policy. The next time someone goes to the Nordmark and sees a forest worker doing his daily dont, we know that there's one that contributes to the climate, that's not the natural challenge we see. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3356	The president assumes that the representative Dag Terje Andersen has also fielded some trees in his life, so it goes to deduct the transplanted quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3359	It's a good deal, we're very happy with it. I have a couple of comments to link to the Right and the Progress Party's game in the hall today and in the media. The party of progress has been turned around to prevent them from joining, especially the party's parliamentary Viceleader, who feels humble because he is not in the good company. So we have the Right, which says it's sad that the Progress Party didn't get involved. But it wasn't so hard for one to oppose this that a would forget about climate policy for the benefit of the Progress Party, despite the fact that the plan is coming into government. I think there's someone who's very easy today, and that's what we've been listening to. It's the fly to Bård Hoksrud and Per-Willy Amundsen. Can they listen to them talking about two thirds cut in Norway? This is important for the Progress Party. Can you see that the Progress Party says that unfortunately we cannot build more car parks in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, because we are not supposed to have more cars in the city? Can you see that the two representatives go to the pulpit and say that it is very important that we now get road pricing and rush time tax that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions? I believe at all that this debate reveals that, in fact, there is the position Amundsen and Hoksrud have now had, in which they are most pleased, and that it will be very difficult to keep track of these troops in this part of the Progress Party towards possible government in 2013. But I'm recording that Ketil Solvik-Olsen is trying it, and I like to hear the speech from Amundsen and Hoksrud, and new tones about how to reduce car traffic. Then I would like to say that one of the most important things that happened in the negotiations here was that one got even more pressure on the bet on trains. SV has proposed that we be done with intercity in 2023, but there has been no multiple for that. Now it's obvious that even the Right and the Other Party thought it's a good idea to celebrate it. I've seen a number from the right 2026. It will be an important part of the process towards the national transport plan, which we will present in February, if we are able to achieve it. The main challenge there is the financing of the railway. That's where we have to create a new model. The Transport Committee has been in Switzerland and has seen how they can finance the railway in another way. We must also do this in Norway. It is now being distributed in the Ministry of Transport. We have to make sure that the government comes up with a model that allows us to build trains quickly and not just roll out motorways. Finally, there's one thing the whole Big City is gathering about – it's helping to keep up with what we are, that's the best nation in an electric car. He gave me some.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3377	I have the great honour of being the case rapporteur for a draft representative who is being discussed with the Climate Change Communication, and I think it is right at the end of the debate to spend a minute on that proposal. This is a proposal from Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden. I just want to praise the proposal. It contains many good and constructive proposals. Many of them have been covered by the climate communication, many of them have been admitted to committee, and many of the proposals are already being dealt with by the government. Discussion and commitment are good, and the reality of the proposals being dealt with together with the climate communication suggests to a nearly unanimous committee that the proposal be annexed to the protocol. Once again, with the exception of the Progress Party, there is nothing positive in the Left's proposal. But it probably shows again that the significant distinction here is in the middle of civil camp.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3384	I assume that we are approaching the conclusion of a long and comprehensive climate debate. I want to thank those who have shared. I am glad that there was not only a debate on the Progress Party, but really a debate on the climate challenge – about the goals we see ourselves, about the strategies we want to use, and about the measures we want to take to achieve our climate goals. What is reflected in the debate is that a broad majority in this Chamber are keenly aware that Norway is playing a major role internationally and is taking important national action to meet the climate challenge. I also think the debate has shown that there is a distinction between the Progress Party on one side and the Plural on the other. This is how the debate itself explains why the conciliation has been concluded among those with whom it has been concluded. Let me also thank the case-speaker for the process that has been on his side, to lease this matter through committee and magnificence. It may have been demanding at times, but I think the result shows that there is a good job that has been done – a great effort by the case-speaker and the other committee members. Then I would like to say to everyone, because it is clear that when the agreement was concluded as it was, it made demands on the Progress Party when it broke deadlines, progress and the like. It goes with history here that when that happened, it was met in a constructive way by the Progress Party in connection with ensuring progress in the cause and delivering on time. It should also be commended to the Progress Party. Several of the last speakers have been involved in forestry. It's a parallel when it comes to forestry. It is that when these forest travelers in their time planted forests, they took action that they themselves could not count on to collect the benefit. It was children and grandchildren who received the prize that the investment gave. I hope that's a little bit of what we're doing today, too. Some of the measures we take, and the measures we see, cost money. Some of them require additional efforts, but hopefully there will be the right actions for those who come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3400	It is gratifying that this room has come to an agreement on a climate settlement that it has been working on over some time – a little too long really. But when it first came, it got pretty good. We would have liked to see all of the parties behind this deal. I think parts of the debate today have been unnecessary, which have tried to keep the Progress Party out of it. I really want to commend the Progress Party for their interest in being part of the same agreement, they too. This climate agreement covers our entire society. To a large extent, all parts of society are affected. There is no doubt that in the years to come there will be severe, very demanding. However, it is also gratifying that we should be able to implement the measures that now need to be implemented. Actually, it's about time for the moment. We know that the next NTP – if you want to think about it, since I'm on the Transport and Communications Committee – will be affected a lot of this. The question to State Council Kleppa was earlier today to what extent this will have an impact on NTP. Clearly it must, in my opinion. Indeed, the transport sector is the one that will make up a great deal of savings in climate emissions, if it does so correctly. There's been a lot of talk about the intercity triangle here today. I have not heard anyone who disagreed that it must be implemented as soon as possible. The question is what can be the fastest possible for something, because it costs an enormous amount of money. It's not just IC that's important. Trains as such are very important in this context, and particularly trains running on electricity, i.e. green energy. Last Thursday, I had the pleasure of attending the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the opening of the Nordlandsbahn. It was a nice event, and it was nice to be on. But because of the uncertainty at the airports, I left here. I was given the opportunity to travel by train that went on green energy from here to Trondheim. But then it was evenly over. The Nordic Express is using a diesel engine that many claim to spew out much more CO2 than the bus transport does. There's a lot to do on that path. I see that State Council Kleppa is no longer present, but I suppose what I'm trying to say here can be exaggerated. In central Norway, county councils have taken their own steps to get this to go a little quickly. They have granted money to investigate the electrification of the railway from Trondheim to Steinkjer. It is a very important measure in the context of climate change. The railway works are willing to investigate it, and the county is willing to pay. Today, we are waiting for a response from the government councillor, Meltveit Kleppa. We've been doing that for weeks now. I hope that this can be transferred to Meltveit Kleppa, so that it is possible to start that investigation fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3416	In the change of lines with today's Minister of Environmental Protection, Councillor Bård Vegar Solhjell, he says with great weight that former councillor Solheim and SV have never used the end-of-time approach in their rhetoric. In several articles by SV's representatives, they try to paste an image of a climate hosting image on the Progress Party without closing it. I'm glad for that, because many people praise us for being with us as long as we were, when it's in the deal. Snorre Serigstad The options used in the article are the ‘existing threat’ of the climate challenge. Has SV now decided on the use of resampling? If SV is knowledge-related when it comes to re-use, do they now see differences between these two words, or do they mean the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3423	What the representative Grimstad brought up here is the important part of the criticism of the Progress Party. Many make the climate debate a very black-and-white picture. Either you have to have a full confession of faith, or you have to sit in the eternal brush and deny everything. That is not the approach of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has always said that we want to stimulate a more diverse debate. It's just when many SV's talk about an existential threat, talking about Armageddon and the kind of Bible things, that the Progress Party says: Let's get the debate on a little more correct track. Let's take over the doubts that exist, without that mean we're going to put away measures to cut CO2 emissions. So it's about being nuanced and not very bombastic. So I apologize to Hallgeir Langeland that we had taken the SV a little too much on the word, because when SV has talked about setting the globe on a new course, we thought we also had to talk about cosmic things like radiation, cosmic solar radiation and cosmic levels. Are we humiliated by that reason? No, the Progress Party has said that we are disappointed with the game that the red-green parties started in this context. Because, as everyone knows, we have been negotiating on the civil side as a block, but it was very bad for SV to show the whole world that the opposition has a better climate policy, a more entrepreneurial climate policy and a better consumer policy than the current government has. But I'm sure the voters will notice this in advance of the election campaign for next year. So Langeland claims that the Progress Party was disappointed because we want the most cars into cities at the expense of public transport. That's not true. We want to have an interaction here. I think it is a bit strange to get the criticism from a person who is going to vote today that 50,000 more cars will be allowed to be completely free of charge, and will be able to drive into the city centre without having to pay a penny for it, and even park for free. It is almost a dream world that the private car driver in the Progress Party would wish to exist every day. So now we get support from SV for that scheme to continue. That's good. With regard to Langeland's desire for better rail financing, it is only to support proposal No. 27 from the Progress Party. That gives what SV here wants, that's to finance the railway in a more rational way. What one could do – if one had followed the proposals of the Progress Party – was to make sure that the intercity triangle around Oslo was finished in ten years. It would give us a better and bigger residential area in this city and also a better and bigger labour market. It would make it more socio-economically profitable and more environmentally friendly to live and work in the urban area. That is the whole list of proposals from the Progress Party. Realising the objectives is needed, and it is possible to improve the implementation of this in order to increase the scope of a more entrepreneurial and consumer-friendly policy. Then I again mention the collective card scheme proposed by the Progress Party. The government itself has said that there will be 175 000 drivers out of the roads. I do not understand that the government parties can vote against such a good climate proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3439	SV and I don't think the world is going to go down. However, what many have said in the debate today is that we are facing the greatest challenge of our time, which will mark the whole of this hundred year. Coping with climate change can have dramatic global consequences. We have an extensive knowledge, perhaps a greater and more unified knowledge than in any other field, through one of the greatest research work done internationally, and to the extent that we have a lot of knowledge, and we have something we have to work on more – we should base the precautionary principle. That is the core of the debate here. Then there has been an underlying debate here which is very central, as the representative Amundsen put it early in the debate. He said that we have to make a sharp distinction between two things: the one is the sense of reality, and the other is the measure. When it comes to reality understanding, the Progress Party is more or less on another planet, in the cosmic space or where they are – or in doubt if they should be there. However, when it comes to measures — quite rightly, they argue against many of them — they would like to discuss them. But for most of us, there is a policy objective that there should be a certain match between the challenges we are going to solve and the measures that will solve them. Often, the problem in policy is the lack of consistency between problem settings and responses. I think they call the facts about this: it wasn't possible in the first round to be some. Now we're sitting with a whole consensus, which gives us a good foundation. I will end by saying that I am incredibly happy that we have had such a good and constructive debate today – with broad agreement. This debate has also shown a strong willingness to challenge each other to move forward and implement the many measures in the climate agreement. It's going to be demanding to implement a lot of them, there'll certainly be a need to adjust the rate and look at what works, and what we're forced to do even more. It's a huge task for me as the Council of State, and it's a great task for the whole Storting to follow this climate deal further towards 2020 – and so on. I think we're grown enough to take that task, after we've had a broad deal about climate policy for two rounds in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3450	There has been a long and interesting debate. I now made an attempt to draw myself last – I did not succeed in that. It has in any case been a long and interesting debate, but there is a time for everything, and now it is soon time for dinner. There's something I'm looking forward to at least. Many people have discussed this distinction between the Progress Party and the other civil parties, but let me emphasise that last Friday we negotiated as a block when there was a break in the negotiations. The starting point for the negotiations on which this agreement is based was a negotiating point on which the Progress Party was behind. The fact that there is so much difference in the primary position of the Progress Party and how far they are willing to go in a negotiating situation must be up to the Progress Party to assess. But basically I drew myself to thank for nice words both from the Christian People's Party, from the Left, from the Workers' Party and from the Center Party. I repeat that thanks and am pleased that we have come to an end with what is a more ambitious and more committed climate policy, and that there is a broad consensus on this. Then we just got to realize that we couldn't make it into seven games this time. This is not due to a lack of will on our part. We should like to see all seven of them in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3460	The next speaker is Per-Willy Amundsen. It's allowed to use less speaking time than 3 minutes – it did the last speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3465	I'll remember that. I come from a part of the country, Troms, where the closest we get intercity connections, is the fast route. At home, it is exotic to travel by train – that is why I do it quite a lot – after I got the opportunity to do it when I arrived at Stortinget. The reason I mention this is that one of the important things the Progress Party addressed in the negotiations was just the road guarantee. It was precisely that we should have a guarantee. We are not opposed to collective action in the big cities, but we wanted a guarantee that the increased effort on public transport in the big cities will not be made at the expense of roads throughout the country. There we were agreeing with the other bourgeois parties. That is a very important point for the Progress Party. That point went missing in the equation. There is no such guarantee. It's sad. The party of progress is now the only party that will not actually let this collective effort take place at the expense of the whole country. However, this illustrates an important point in addition to the fast route, namely the need for policy to give and take – it is in the nature of the debate. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, we recognise that it is a great distance from our primary position to that of the other parties, but that was some of the points we prioritised in the negotiations. It was road, it was no to more taxes and taxes and no to bans, bans and more public regulations that were at the top of people's heads most. That was our starting point, and that was what we were open and honest on – yes, even via the media. So it is that we were excluded from the negotiations. Then it sounds quite hollow what various SV representatives have said during – and especially at the end of – this debate, where they are trying to create the impression that the Progress Party is in another cosmic space – that was what the representative Lysbakken used, as a bad reference to something that is actually good research that is happening at CERN, in order to try to ridicule it. No, the Progress Party is assuming that we want to move the policy in our direction. Then you try to make this a debate that the Progress Party doesn't believe enough in man-made climate change to be part of the good company – we don't think enough. We almost have to make such a confession in order to get into the good company. The measures and the conciliation are about practical policies – it is not about creed. It has also revealed this debate to the full.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3476	I believe the final story of this debate is that there is a big difference in the reality between the Progress Party and the others. There is no need for SV speakers to see that – it keeps hearing the articles of the Progress Party. It's not that the opposition has better climate policy than the position. For us it has been important to come to an agreement, a consensus that can stand over time. Then, of course, you have had to give something, and the government has had something to give in concreteising and deepening some of the points that were already in the climate announcement. It is never such that the opposition goes to a broad settlement without being paid for any of its important things. But at the same time, it has been – and you understand that after this debate – also a hard fight to prevent the deterioration of national climate policy in this climate agreement, and there we have been very hard to see that we are not going to have any deterioration. I am among those who have not spent time now thanking the case rapporteur, Nikolai Astrup, and as the last word in the debate, I would like to be allowed to do so. He's made a great effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3485	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3500	This matter is hardly a basis for debate, so just a few words about what is going on. So it applies to a bill-change proposition that clarifies a legal state when it relates to access to criminal prosecution for violation of law in a law-enforcement order that was lifted when the natural default law came into force. The right hand side, I guess, is pretty straightforward. What is at stake is that, in the context of the decision on natural disaster laws, there was an understanding and an intention that access to criminal prosecution should be continued, since regulations which were then governed by laws that had been removed would be allowed to continue. Then the department later found out that this might not be a good enough home, at least not seen in the light of Section 96 of the Constitution. That is why we are now proposing a change in the laws of nature that will last. It is clear, then, that a colleague's committee is behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3507	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 12 and 13 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3534	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 12 and 13 At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 14 and 15 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3561	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and member of Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3572	The paper on the activities of Post Norway AS and the proposal for changes to the law on the provision of basic banking services are two key issues for an enterprise that is essential for active business activity in the country, so that we can work and live anywhere and ‘use the whole country’. There has been a strong decline in demand for transmission payments over the last few years. At the same time, the use of telephone and Internet banking is increasing. Today, everyone has access to the giro of letters, and cash withdrawals from mini-banks and shops are increasing. These include: on this basis, a unanimous committee advises the Stortinget to limit its obligation to provide basic banking services to the country postal network only. The Committee believes it is important to continue services in the country postal network so that we ensure a good banking offer across the country, regardless of residence, functionality or competence in digital communications. Net withdrawals and payments shall be agreed in advance and the amount of cash held shall be limited to the actual need. This has considerable safety benefits and is labour and cost-saving. Let me link a few comments to the comments of the Party of Advancement and the Right. The Progress Party points out that ten years ago they opposed the Post offering basic banking services, and they believe that the other parties only adopt the Policy of the Advance Party. The right point is that they have made similar proposals in the past. Ten years ago, the situation was quite different. It would have been totally wrong to remove the bank obligation then. It would have great consequences for many. Societies are constantly changing, especially in terms of technology and digitisation, and as politicians, of course, we need to keep up with and deal with this. However, if changes and reorganisations are necessary, the Labour Party believes that this must be done after careful assessments, how many are heard, where the relationships of employees are well cared for, and where account is also taken of those who are unable to deal with the new, digitised world – in other words, everything in their time. We believe that the time has come for this. In the history of the Post, 52 milestones have been found since 1647 and up to today, with large and small conversions. Now, maybe 52 isn't a big number in 365 years, but when we know that it's been 29 since 2000, it says something about an enterprise that doesn't stand still in any way, but that's constantly evolving. It takes me to the next case, the message about the business of Posten Norge AS. The post is currently a Nordic postal and logistics group that develops and delivers comprehensive solutions in postal, communication and logistics. The group has more than 20 000 employees. It has over 1,400 outlets in Norway. In 2011, Posten distributed 38.5 million packages and 2,223 million letters. This shows that the Post every day does an important job for society, which the Committee also stresses the importance of. The Workers' Party has noticed that the Post's vision is to become the world's most forward-looking postal and logistics group, and they have offensive objectives: satisfied customers, leading market positions, profitable growth and competitive value development, attractive jobs and a good working environment. The message addresses many important issues and elements of the Post Office’s business. I'll comment on some of this. In order to carry out the social mission in the best possible way, a unanimous committee calls for equivalent postal services and the rapid and reliable delivery of postal services. The Committee notes unanimously that the unit portfolio should be retained, stressing that sending letters domestically in Norway, irrespective of geographical distances and where the consignment is delivered, should cost the same amount. This is a good comment. I expect that during this debate we will get an explanation of how the Progress Party and the Right will solve this, because it is not easy to understand when you read their further comments and suggestions. In the case of the despatch offer, the customer satisfaction with Post in Store is high. The Committee agrees with the government that the Post may convert up to 149 self-propelled post offices into Post in Store. There shall be at least one permanent dispatch point in each municipality, central location and good availability. If it is ensured that the overall service offer is continued, the Committee believes that the Ministry of Transport can accept a further conversion of the post office to Post in Store, without the matter being referred to the Stortinget. However, if demand or competitive developments change significantly, all conditions shall be presented to the Size. With the decisions we are likely to take today, many hundreds of Post employees will be affected. The Committee assumes that the transitions take place with transparency and in cooperation with the employees and their organisations. The emphasis shall be on a safe and predictable process of change, the aim of which is to get the majority of them to work again. Individual adaptation rooms must be provided and the needs of the perfunctory must be adequately met. The management and staff organisations of the post must cooperate on the conversion measures and paces of the conversions. The Committee has noted that HMS work is a high priority in the group, which has produced good results, including: reduction of sick leave. The Committee commends the Post for further developing good services based on new technologies. Digipost is a good example of this. In the setting of this matter, you can read that the committee is also divided into its comments, and I would like to comment on some of this. The members of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, are very pleased that the Post has continued its social responsibility in relation to the environment and that ambitious objectives have been set for the environmental action, including: to reduce CO2 emissions. These members believe that the Post in this area can be a good example for follow-up. The item has employees from more than 70 nations and is an enterprise of great ethnic diversity. The members of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, are in favour of the Post's objective of increasing the integration and diversity share of the staff and management. There have been a few unfortunate individual pissers where the Post or its subcontractors have been accused of illegal cabotage or have caused problems on Norwegian winter roads. The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Right have noticed that the Post takes this seriously. The CEO has stated that in the Post and Bring there is zero tolerance for illegal cabotage operations in all parts of the establishment. These members would stress that there should be no illegal cabotage operation in any establishment. It is important that all orders from carrier services, including the Post, do not use carriers that can lead to social dumping and dilution of our work environment legislation. The Right Party and the Advance Party call for more responsible and forward-looking ownership management and believe that the Post does not take on societal change. They refer to the report ‘Delivery obligations in the postal sector’ by Oslo Economics, where estimates show that the size of government purchases of postal services needs to increase to close to 2,5 billion. kr in 2020 to maintain a postal structure identical to that of today. The figure is correct, but what does not emerge is that this amount includes the effect of the Post Office's expected loss of market shares as a consequence of the implementation of the EU's third postal directive. The amount also assumes that no efficiency and cost-saving measures will be implemented during the period. In other words, the calculations have little to do with reality, at least as long as we do not implement the third postal directive. The right hand party and the Progress Party note that the State purchase from the Post Office has been between 300 million. and 500 million. kr in recent years, and that the Item in 2010 repaid part of the aid because of its good annual performance. To that end, the item does not repay part of the appropriation for the purchase of unprofitable postal services because of good annual results. The reason for that payment is that the extra costs of the social mission and the unprofitable portions of the services imposed were lower than estimated. There is again a consequence that the Post, in common with the employees’ organisations, continuously facilitates and implements changes in the production and conversion of staff. efficiencies, e.g.: The Spinnaker project also contributes to reducing the cost of maintaining good postal services in the country. The Right Party and the Progress Party are concerned that the Post must have the freedom to continue its process of change in order to remain competitive, and the Progress Party therefore proposes that the Post should be quoted. The Workers' Party agrees that, in cooperation with its employees, the Post will continue to have the freedom to carry out the necessary change processes but within politically defined frameworks. This space for action has been in use for more than 15 years, with continuous changes and changes. During these years, the number of jobs in the parent company has been reduced by more than 15 000, without a single day of employment conflict. This is really worth noting, so when the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the Post currently has a small responsibility and forward-looking ownership management, and that the company does not take on societal changes, we simply disagree with it. Right-wing points out that the continuation of today’s postal policy is not sustainable and will therefore set ambitious objectives for the Post Office. One would think that they would then have an active ownership, but they would also have government sales – a little strange, but I find reason to comment on one of the claims. They write, among other things, that the advertising industry is constantly changing and that direct marketing is marginalised. This is not right: the marginalisation of unaddressed C-mail, as the product is actually called, is not part of the image we have seen so far – rather the other way around. Volume has been still growing until now. Nor is the turnover and performance of this product the item expected to be reduced in the coming years. On the right, the item will be sectoral in terms of pay and working conditions. This is mildly alarming, but it is stated in the document, so they must mean it. The return on equity of the company is reduced from 10 to 9 per cent. This is the satisfaction of the Committee, and the Right and Advance Party believe that the requirement should be raised if the company changes its character. The working party agrees that the return claim is being assessed, but I must stress that there must be long-termity and predictability in the decision of the owner, including for the Post Office. In this context, the Right Party and the Advance Party point out that ‘comparable companies’ have had a much higher return than the Post Norway, and refer to Denmark, Germany, PostNord and Itella Group. What is comparable in this context is not one-sided whether there is another postal and/or logistics company. In order to assess whether it really is a comparable company, it is appropriate to have in-depth market knowledge and knowledge of the terms and conditions of the companies, in other words, the concession provisions applicable, if any, and not least to take account of market conditions. It should be clear to the Right and the Advance Party that the distribution costs in Denmark are significantly lower than in Norway, that Sweden, with twice as many people, has twice as many postal items to distribute the determined costs to, and that Germany is very little comparable to Norway. Then go to logistics and ICT. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has noted that the focus of the group is on profitable growth in the logistics segment and is pleased that the entry in 2011 had growth in turnover in this area. On the other hand, the members of the Committee from the Progress Party recommend an amended strategy with a clearer focus on and concentration in the postal field, and its development and renewal. I find reason to comment that with such a strategy, the company's and the state's values would be confused in a short time. A concentration on the postal sector would, in the short and long term, undermine any possibility for the Post to deliver positive economic results. The alternative will be a severe deterioration in the level of service and quality of Post services and products. In order to provide the services of the quality needed by society, the Post must run a large number of routes each day between different locations: from one terminal to another, from this terminal to a post office or distribution unit and from that unit, for example. to a country postal route. Transport and staff costs are only marginally affected by the number of consignments transported. Instead of driving a half-full car with just letters, you fill the car with parcels and goods. The costs are allocated and revenue increases in relation to having only one focus on the postal sector. In that case, transport costs would be about the same, but they would have to be financed by state aid. Performing the transport and logistics needs as the Posten does is also positive and economical in the external environment. Fewer vehicles mean less CO2 emissions from the largest logistics company in the country. As far as concession requirements and competition are concerned, I have mentioned the unit portfolio. Government parties are committed to ensuring that households and traders in all parts of the country have a good and equivalent postal service, and the level of service must be maintained at the current level. Studies show that 70 pst. the population is satisfied with today's postal distribution, and 50 pst. wish for six-day distribution. Saturday distribution is especially important for customers the older they are, and the more out of focus they live. For us, it is therefore important to maintain the mail delivery six days a week. The Progress Party will also maintain a single portfolio, but at the same time will have a free and open market for postal services, they will have free competition by letter less than 50 grams, and they will implement the third EU Postal Directive. How does this relate? Furthermore, they will cut the service offer and only have the Saturday delivery of newspapers. And the Right also opens for this. In a comment from the Right, they tell us that it is the European Community idea that has been the guarantor of peace and reconciliation and has provided a solid foundation for economic growth in the EEA region. A French quotation from the beginning of the 1800s is highlighted: ‘When goods do not cross borders, soldiers will do so.’ This is used as an argument to make the government not veto the Third Postal Directive. I have to ask: does the Right seriously believe that the government is going to pursue a European policy based on the French policies of the 1800s? Ownership: The item is 100 pst. owned by the State, and the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, stress that the primary objective of State ownership in the Post is related to the company's social mission. On the other hand, the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party will end this. The Progress Party will quote the Post and convert it into a so-called public limited liability company, and the Right will facilitate a government sale where small savers and employees will have to purchase shares. In both cases, this shall be done via a so-called public share, where Norwegian citizens who notify their interest receive a discount on their holdings. It may be that strongly discounted shares to the people and the employees had made the move, and that the Post employees had in a way become business owners, each of them. It's possible it would have been good. But the Workers' Party actually believes that the people already own the Post, through the state, and that model we live with. The Progress Party and the Right have a reason why the State's ownership of the Post should not be continued, and this time we are going back to 1647 and the creation of the Post Office. It is referred to that it was Hannibal Sehested, a Danish substitute in Norway, who created the Post Office, and that it was Dutchman Henrik Morian who started the operation. He was granted the exclusive right to operate the Post Office for an annual remuneration. They underline: ‘the business around what is known today as Post Norway had its start as a concession purchase given to a private foreign operator. [[...]] There is therefore no news that private actors are contributing to a task for which the State has overall responsibility.» So this is going to write the progress part and the right part of the setting. So the King of Copenhagen granted a royal privilege in the form of a post-monopoly to these people. I cannot understand this in any other way than that the Right Party and the Advance Party agree that private monopolies, like foreign ones, are top, while state monopolies are not good – really no surprise. The right also justifies its proposal on State sales with the fact that enterprises in the postal sector are by nature international. I also have a comment on this: the international nature of the industry is that the postal items are carried across borders, from one consignor in one country to one receiver in another. Until a few years ago, this occurred without exception by the fact that, in sum, the national postal companies constituted the world web, bringing the international post to the national company, which was responsible for the further distribution together with the national postal services in the respective countries. In the liberalised market, each company itself must build this entire network to participate in international competition. How can one believe and believe that it provides better and more reasonable postal services if two or more postal cars and postal couriers drive and walk side by side or in succession and deliver the mail to the same mailbox? The experience of the countries that have liberalised the postal market is quite the opposite. The Right Party and the Progressive Party propose to transfer the administration of the State ownership of the Post to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Until it is said that although the Storting sets business targets for the Post, the Post is not an industry alone. The post office is much more than that. We from the Workers' Party will stress that the Post is part of the infrastructure services needed in a well-functioning society. The post should help others to feed, and that we can work and live all over the country. Finally, I present the proposals for decisions of the Committee in the configurations of the two cases referred to above, and I believe that the Progress Party and the Right will present its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3672	I was going to say that the rapporteur has done a good job with the Post message, but at least I say that the rapporteur has done a good job working in the Committee on Posten's activities. The Progress Party believes that Posten Norge AS is a very good company, which has shown in a very good way that they have clearly big and tough conversions in a exemplary way. However, the mail we are now processing will mean that the company will have to think again in the future, look at new changes and new opportunities – there is no doubt about that. This is due, inter alia, to: mail rates are strongly decreasing, and there is evidence that this trend will continue in the future. We are convinced that the company, along with its employees, will also be able to cope with the changes that are now taking place in an incredibly good way, which will take care of the company and, of course, the employees in a good way, and which will ensure that the Post will continue to be a company to be expected of in the future. I think it is a little special that the rapporteur is very concerned about the third postal directive, that one actually wants to veto a directive like the postal directive when the company itself has stated that they want to meet the competition, that they are ready to meet the competition, and that they believe that they are actually competent to meet the competition from other actors. They do it in all areas except for letters under 50 grams. The advancement party is of the opinion that the company will handle this in an incredibly good way. We trust that the company, along with the employees, is ready to compete with who it might be, and that they will actually be able to do it in a good way. Post in Store was one of the major changes that was made some years ago. It was quite innovative, and there were certainly a lot of people who were very unsure whether that was right. Today I am sure that everyone agrees that it was a success, and especially for the customers, who could suddenly pick up packages and get postal services much longer than the day or evening than you could when you only had the traditional post offices. We therefore believe that there is no reason not to continue that development, and we therefore support the Post Office's wish to reduce the number of post offices while increasing the number of Post Offices in Store. For many years, the Progress Party has been working to remove the bank obligation that the Post has had to have full banking services throughout the postal network, which we have had a lot of fun for, among other things. by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party in previous proceedings. But it's always nice to record that what you've been fighting for for a long time is actually being implemented. I'm not as sure that this would have been as easy if there had been another government that had promoted these proposals, but it's good that these changes are coming now, and I think it'll be very good for the future of the company. We still want to point out some things that we think it is important to bring with us. As opposed to the rapporteur, the company itself wishes to reduce the postal distribution to five days a week. That means – at least if we're going to go in for it, and that's the prerequisite for the Progress Party to go in to reduce full mail delivery from six days a week – that you have to remove the monopoly on letters less than 50 grams, so that others can have the opportunity to have mail delivery on the day the Post itself does not want it. At least we have suggested that you can go down to five days with normal mail accommodation, but that you should also have a newspaper stay on Saturdays, which is one of the alternatives that the company itself has proposed. We're going in for five days' full load, and in addition, we want the newspapers to be distributed on Saturday. So we've asked a lot of questions about the Post's business, because we're nevertheless a little concerned about part of what we hear, part of what we see, and part of the feedback we get about part of the Post's business. In the Business Communication to the Post Office, it is interesting to note that some of the businesses purchased since 2006, hardly mentioned, despite the fact that it has cost many, many millions of dollars to buy up the companies. In addition, when we look at the results for the logistics business, we see that this is not as good as the results for the postal business. I record that the Post says that there has been a slightly special condition that has caused a poor return on the logistics business. Of course, this may be related to both the financial crisis and other things that have happened, but the company believes that they should continue to provide good services and that logistics should also deliver good results. That's good. But I would like to remind you that the purchases within transport and logistics have cost 1.7 billion. kr for the 16 companies that have now been merged or purchased by the Post since 2006 and until 2011. There's a lot of money, and they're sitting in many ways with the gold card in the back, because it's the state that ultimately is the guarantor, and it's the Minister of Transport who is the General Assembly. I also registered that the rapporteur was very concerned that the Right and Advance Party did not consider moving ownership to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That's actually a completely logical explanation of that. It is the Minister of Transport who is the general meeting of the company, who is also responsible for postal and telecommunications supervision, which is responsible for controlling the activities. This means that questions can be asked from other companies and from others about what is most important to the state. Is it taking into account your own company, or is it taking care to have tight shots that make it the industry and the totality that are important? We believe that it would make sense to ensure that there is one department responsible for ownership and that the company is allowed to develop further, and that there is another department responsible for control. That's the background because we think that makes sense. The rapporteur was aware that there had been very few cases with some of the Posten companies and the cars they use. I myself have been allowed to experience one of the companies that definitely did not have good winter tyres on several of the cars. In fact, the cars were stuck at times when you would never believe such a type of car should stand firm. If the Post now says, it is true that the cars the company uses on Norwegian winter roads, I am very happy about that. I assume that the Post Office attaches great importance to ensuring that the cars are well equipped to drive on Norwegian winter roads. Fortunately, there have been few cases of cabotage, but there have been many rumors that the company has been involved. I think it is good that the Post now says that this is something you should clean up, and that there is zero tolerance for this in the Post and in the companies that the Post uses. I'm very happy about that, because that's how the Post as a State Company, which is 100 pst. owned by the state, of course will be followed with the argus eyes in a slightly different way than the other companies become. So, of course, it shouldn't be that there's a difference between the companies. But it is clear that the Post – with the Council of State as a General Assembly – must go ahead with a good example of how the company’s activities are carried out. I think that the post office has explained well in all the eleven questions that we have asked, and that I think we have received a good answer. I hope the Council of State will continue to accompany the company to make sure that they are working actively to prevent both illegal cabotage and that the cars are not equipped – and the drivers are not suitable – to drive on Norwegian winter roads, which we have unfortunately seen some examples of. It's like it's not a problem to make sure you have a uniform sport across the country. It's completely possible. It's about doing what you now also do: you might have to pay to make sure you get mail across the country and at the price you have to pay. I think it is a good business message that has come, with the opportunity for the Storting to ask questions to make sure that the company operates as one wants it to do. I also record that the Swedish Audit Office has had comments in the past, something that you have been very concerned about in the company. It has been assured that what has been mentioned has been closed again. It's a company that still wants to be, and that will be, an important actor in the future. The Progress Party is pleased, and we think, as I said, that this is an exemplary company in the process of making a good transition, in which both the employees and, of course, the company's interests are well cared for in the best interests of the owner. I would like to deal with the proposals the Progress Party has made, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3702	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3705	I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for having been very thorough and thorough in the committee's work on this communication. Today's presentation on the pulpit was also very thorough, I have to say. I would like to come back to the disagreements that we find in between in the vote, which have also been explained by the rapporteur. The postal service is a very important part of the service provision in a community. The mailboxes were too many points of contact with the outside world, and they are still for some people. The Post Office was established as early as 1647 by a Danish warden. It was Dutchman Henrik Morian who was given the exclusive right to operate the Post Office for an annual remuneration, and, as the case-responsor said, it was a private actor who was commissioned at the time. It's been a few hundred years. We're talking about a service that's been doing the same thing for decades, yes, centuries. The core task of the post is to continue to provide postal services at a reasonable price and of high quality throughout the country. Until a few years ago, this service was carried out exclusively by the Post Office’s own departments and postal agents. In my time as a resident in Germany, I experienced that the post office there was established in grocery stores and thus had a longer opening time than its own departments. I felt that I was very positive, and I was happy when the Post Office in Norway carried out similar places here in the country. The entry recommends extending this scheme, and we will fully support it. In recent years, however, developments on the information page have changed considerably. Too many, and in particular the younger generation, contact with the outside world is quite different from a letter in the mailbox. The digital flow of information has taken too much of what was previously in the form of letters. This has presented major challenges for the Post Office. The revenue generated by the postal services has been substantially reduced. The right will give credit to the Post for the way these challenges are met. The post has provided more legs to stand on and today appears to be a modern company with a strong commitment to innovation and development in the context of concessional conditions. As a very transport and labour intensive activity, the Post also places an independent emphasis on its social responsibility through the objective of contributing to environmentally efficient operation, as well as developing a good working environment and attractive jobs. To meet the digital challenge on the information page, the Post has developed and put into function Digipost. This system should be considered as an alternative core of the country’s commitment to digital information flows between the population and the country. In recent years, the demand for cross-border banking services has also fallen significantly. The right has previously proposed that the Post be exempted from this service, and we are now pleased that the government is proposing to reduce the scope of Post's obligation to provide banking services. It will still be the State that is responsible for ensuring a well-conceived postal service, but we do not believe it is necessary that the ownership of this service should be on the hands of the State. We therefore believe that it will have positive effects if employees in particular were given the opportunity to be partners in the company, and therefore propose that the company be privatised. We also consider it unfortunate that the regulatory role through the Post and Telecommunications Authority and ownership is in the same department and therefore proposes that the administration of the state ownership in Posten Norge AS be moved to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the third EU postal directive, which decided to abolish the monopoly in the European postal market from 1 January 2011, with a transitional period. This directive will in no way frustrate the postal services in Norway and we therefore recommend that the directive be introduced. There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee that the Post is well run in Norway. The post has been very active in meeting the challenges of the future. But we would have liked the government to have been somewhat more active in the dialogue with the Post on the strategic development of the company. There are undoubtedly major challenges ahead, and that is the basis for recommending that ownership should be somewhat more active. I'm taking up the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3733	The representative Lars Myraune has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3736	I would also like to start by thanking the case spokesman for a very thorough work, and not least because one through that work has kept in touch with the trade movement and Postkom, the trade union of the postal agents. There is no doubt that it is very important for a person to ensure that they are taken care of when one is going through such a major reform as this. I myself was at the post office in Stavanger on Saturday and sent a letter. Then I spoke with the added ones that I met, and they said that they were afraid of this, because this was going to be difficult. They're already going to have all the meetings tomorrow early, that is, now on Tuesday, and go through the further process forward. This means that both the bosses and the addees already take this seriously and work on the assumption that they should do so in good cooperation, so that there is no conflict in the further process of the major intervention that this will be and that unfortunately is necessary in relation to the situation in the postal market. Then it's like I'm registering that people are quite happy with e.g. mail breakdowns. Then it's strange that people and other right-wing people -- I kept saying -- should create solutions that people don't necessarily get satisfied with when they're happy with what they have. They want to keep what they have. We'll just have to register that. So I want to boast to the Post that they don't only have satisfied customers, but they're also offensive on the climate and the environment in relation to, among other things. electric cars and distribution by electric bicycles and a little of each such. It doesn't mean at all – I think – a nearly total accumulation of prizes, starting from the previous debate on climate. So some comments relate to the EU adaptation as the Progress Party and the Right want. It is positive to register that the Christian People's Party is separating layers here with potential future comrades on the right hand side and largely with the red-green government when it comes to the mail message. It's positive, and we take it as a signal. But what's weird is these parties aren't looking at the EU's current problems. Why has the EU had a problem? No, they're not, they're not, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, They want to incorporate the same measures that do not work in the EU and that create problems in the EU – we will now get more of them in Norway: more market, more supply, less government governance, more privatisation, more stock exchange. Yes, ask Greeks and Spaniards if there's anything that works, if there's anything they want more of. I think they will get a clear answer, when the EU now has to spend money saving banks and finance, when one has tried out this market-liberalist system that they want more of in Norway. There's no doubt about the consequences of that. There's going to be worse services, and the services are going to be more expensive for most people. That's how a market-liberalist system works, and it's going to be poorer for those who live in the districts. It is open with a market-liberalist system. In addition, the Advance Party is concerned about cabotage operations. Yes, where does this cabotage come from? Did he come from Norway? He is just coming from the EU system, where one has the so-called free competition that makes one come with sophisticated offers and make sure to run a system that challenges Norwegian work environment legislation when it comes to social dumping. If you look at what the Progress Party does when it comes to the Work Environment Act, it's just weakening it. It is a premise that cabotage should actually become the rule in Norway with the Progress Party's market liberalist policy. I thought it was a little fun with the Right that goes back to 1647 – to the bumper society, to a Danish performer who created the Post, and to a Dutchman who started the operation – in order to argue for why one has to privatize the Post. So, not looking at the actual situation in today's EU, but looking back at some old examples from the 1600s and 1800s. I believe that what matters to us red-green today is that we say no to the Postal Directive, we say no to a system that does not work in the EU. We don't want it in Norway -- we want a system that works, like the Post likes, and they appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3755	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very tidy and fine job in connection with the mail message. It has been very good to get to work like this together. Then I want to say that the Center Party is concerned that we should ensure that the Post fulfills its social mission by ensuring the best possible postal service for people and businesses throughout the country. Good and equivalent postal services and the rapid delivery of mail at equal prices across the country are the main essence of that social mission. Even if the number of letters and shipments goes down, there will be mail and packages to be sent in the future. Even if we digitize, there will be something that is not possible to digitize, simply because it has to be sent physically. For some people it would be unreasonable to send the package from, or get answers to some things, if you do not have the country mail routes you have today, which are perceived as very good, as the message states. The centre party supports reducing the return on equity of the company from 10 pst. to 9 pst. This is in line with the requirements of other State-owned companies of a similar nature, and it is very important. With regard to the third EU postal directive, unlike the Right and the Advance Party, the Central Party would say that it is very pleased that the government has announced to the EU that it will not adopt the third EU postal directive. We believe that this directive will require Norway to liquidate special rights and exclusive rights for postal items. It is to fear that this will mean that there will only be competition in the profitable parts of the market. Then we'll get a worse offer for people and business in District Norway. The alternative is that the country has to import an ever-increasing amount to maintain an equivalent offer across the country. It'll be expensive, as Postkom pointed out in the dialogues we've had with them. This poses a greater risk of a worse offer that can fluctuate depending on how much you from the state team will deposit, depending on who is in power. It considers the Centre Party to be an unwise act: to replace a nearly self-financing system, and to replace it with state subsidies. We believe that it is important to maintain the unit portfolio, mail delivery six days a week and ensure that the Posten's exclusive right to transmit letters below 50 grams is maintained. It's a wise move to ensure equivalent offers. We also believe that the post office should be 100 pst. State-owned. It is justified in the societal mission of the Post and it is in order to ensure a fair and high-quality provision of universal service throughout the country. For Post in Store, customer satisfaction is high, not least because of good availability and longer opening hours than for post offices. The central party therefore supports the government's ability to convert the Post until 149 self-propelled post offices into Post in Butikk. The assumption is that the service provision is continued or improved and that the availability is preferably extended. There shall be at least one permanent dispatch point in each municipality, where availability is ensured and located in consultation with each municipality. The total number of post offices and full mail in Store shall be at least 1420. I would like to add that it is important that the migration process is done in close dialogue with the employees, because it is a demanding process. It is important not to accept cabotage, and I am glad that the post office has been so clear that it should not happen. We assume that all transport service providers are aware of laws and regulations and do not undermine ethics, social responsibility, the environment or the HMS. I am also pleased that digital solutions come out more, and that the Post has been offensive in that respect. As we get an increasingly better broadband offer and more people use it, it will be a good alternative for many on some services. We also support the conversion of banking obligations, provided that it is ensured that country postal services still have that offer. It's important. Finally, the right point is that many people have an emotional relationship with their mailbox. Yeah, I can sign it. In my youth, I was a temporary postman and saw how important it was that people got mail, and that they met at the mailbox. It's still like this in many ways, and so the distance can't be long to the nearest mailbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3778	We have received a good message about the operation of the Post of Stortinget. I would also like to thank the case spokesperson for a good job. But first of all, thanks should go to the Post Office and those who have made a change that has been very successful. It's not an easy job to have such a big system going on when we know that some of the core tasks have actually been reduced for over ten years. The post office has done a very good job, and they have done it by doing two things. The only thing is that they've had a successful transition, they've got them added, they're doing great processes, and they've closed it down. The second is that they have found new legs to stand on and have developed successfully. We can compare the Norwegian postal service with what we see in the United States, for example. There's a big mail system that hasn't been through a conversion. One has too much capacity in relation to your work tasks. In Norway, on the other hand, we have had a successful transition. This has also caused one to look at new areas. Today, logistics is the largest unit. The post still represents a large part, but will be decreasing. The IT bet has been successful. The post requested is largely satisfied with this message. The only thing they ask for is that the number of post offices is reduced, because there is no need for so many post offices anymore, yes, some of them have been so obvious that they have said that there is actually too little to do in the post office. And one has had a successful transition to Post in Store. That is why the Christian People's Party supports it. The second is that banking obligations are being reduced. Now the country postal network takes over banking obligations alone. It's also a conversion I think is wise. The third item is what the representative Hoksrud mentions, which relates to Saturday solitude. The Christian People's Party chooses to follow the government party and government here, but I want to say that we get the bills from Monday to Friday and only get the newspapers on Saturday, is not a thought a lost night's sleep of, when we know just how successful such a change has been in Denmark. But the Christian People's Party has chosen to follow the government party so far. We have also done so with regard to ownership. Just the social mission and the fact that the Post has been closed with a change of pace are fundamental. Then I may not be able to agree entirely with the presentation made by the representative of Langeland from the EU. It is clear that there is just a change in the public sector that some of the countries south of Europe have not been closed down. One could have asked the Greeks. Had they really been closed with a good transition within their public sector, they would not have had the government debt they have today. Just because we have activities like the Post as part of our public system that have been closed here, Norway is in such a lucky situation as we are today. The Christian People's Party is also impressed with the environmental work that is being done and that the Post has done. The same applies to HMS work within the Post and the international work being done, with more than 70 nationalities. So it's important in the future that the post office makes it possible to evolve. Stopping development, innovation and transition will have a cost. This operation is not supposed to take place now. Therefore, the view of the Christian People's Party does not share the view of the government of the directive, because we believe that saying no to that directive could prevent the Post from moving further and further competition. They have closed that down, among others. in the Nordic region, and so we don't share that view. A good message is the reason for this. We want to give the Post the opportunity to evolve precisely in the direction they have been doing in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3799	The post has to go. The overriding objective of the government in the postal field is to ensure the provision of universal postal services throughout the country. Postal services are important to sustain construction and business in all parts of our long-range country. I am pleased that the Committee is joining this goal of the Post. The ownership of Posten Norway AS is an important sector policy tool for government. Already when the Norwegian Post Office was created in 1647, mail distribution was considered an important service to ensure good communication. Society's demands for good services have changed over the years, and the Post Office became a company on 1 December 1996. In the years that followed, the post has also made major adjustments to adapt to a new time. Digital communication has exceeded much of the communication previously made by the Post. At the same time, the Post has provided high-quality universal services and solved the challenges in a forward-looking way. People today are happy with the service they are provided in Post in Store. This was not the case when the first post offices were converted in 2001. Now measurements show that customers are most satisfied with Post in Store as with Post's own post office. Even if there are long distances and the winter in Norway is weather-hard, come even over 85 pst. by post-A over the night, measured on an annual basis. Of course, there are periods when this does not happen, but the Post is good at finding good options for the mail. That's what we saw during the ash crisis, and we see it in other special events. If the Post delivers good quality services and delivers good economic results, there are still challenges in the future. Letters are falling, competition in the packaging market is increasing, and Post is experiencing increased competition from digital messaging channels. The mail needs to be converted to fit the new time and the service supply to the request. That is why we in the message and in the bill have presented three changes that are very important in adapting the Post's activity to the demand for services: The obligation to provide banking services is reduced to the country postal network only. The post office will be sent to Post in Store until 149. The post may be created as PiB Simple, a dispatch point where only the most requested services will be provided. The demand for banking services in the post offices has fallen sharply in recent years. A lot of this happens because people are increasingly using competing services like online banking, telephone banking, and letter giro. Containers can take out into mini-banks and shops around the country. At the same time, there has been an offer to pay bills in the so-called Bank in Butikk. Some of the places with Post in Store are also Bank in Store, so customers can get the same services in two boxes in the same store. Nevertheless, there are people in Norway who do not experience the same freedom of choice as most of us do. In some districts it is far to the nearest banking branch or bank in Storeik, and some do not use the Internet. It has therefore been important for me to ensure that everyone has a bank offer. Copenhagen Economics has identified that if the bank supply to the Post disappears, there are about 12,000 people in pig-grown strips who get more than four kilometres to the nearest banking destination. I understand that not everyone in this room cares about that very much, but in the bill we have stated that the Post Office's obligation to provide banking services is passed on in the country postal network. The post operates today 179 post offices. When the demand for mail and banking services goes down, there are still fixed costs associated with running these offices. A transformation into Post in Store will reduce determined costs and improve revenue and costs in relation to each other. Furthermore, transformation from post office to Post in Store will often give longer opening hours. The message also sets requirements for Mail in Stores to be added to locations with good access from existing collective services. I am also pleased that the Committee agrees that a further conversion of post offices does not need to be dealt with in the Stortinget but can be dealt with by the Ministry. Conversion frames added at post offices. The post office that is being created is not set. I am sure that the Post will have a good process associated with the conversion that needs to be done. The message requires that they be added to the process and that as much as possible be made possible to prevent the superstitious from becoming unemployed or ending up in a social security system. The government attaches great importance to improving the quality of mail services. As a result, there are requirements in the message that the number of fully-validated dispatch locations, i.e. post office and post office in Store, shall be at least 1420. The post office wants to create so-called PiB Simple, dispatch locations that only offer some services, such as package delivery. In addition to the places where one provides all universal services, these places of dispatch will improve people’s access to postal services. The post also aims at providing services for secure electronic messaging, Digipost. I mean it so absolutely is a good idea that supports up under the Post's core business. I hope this is an approach that will ensure good profitability and good quality in the postal services at a time when the Post is facing major challenges. At the same time, it is important to hold on to the Post's obligation to deliver mail on Saturdays, that universal services should cost the same in the whole country, and that the Post should have a single right to receive a letter of less than 50 grams. The entry is one of Norway's largest corporations. I have let myself be impressed by the Post's environmental work. I myself have been sharing packages in a zero-emission car in Trondheim. It's part of the Post's goal of being a leader in logistics and thinking new when it comes to the environment. I'm glad that the attempt they've made there will also be passed on to other areas. Then I must say that I am a little surprised that not the whole committee felt that the integration work that the Post is dealing with is positive. Not everyone could gather around, blatantly integrating, and there are, in fact, 70 nationalities that are represented as employees in the Post. It's positive with the extra amount of deficiency. I have noticed that the majority in the committee say to follow it up, also in relation to staff and leadership. So I just have to say in the end: we need good mail services for everyone in this country, and it's obvious that it's a love that the whole Big City is all about. I am sure that the measures proposed in this message will ensure the effectiveness of the Post and provide important services for us in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3848	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3851	Between 2004 and 2011, the nature of the Post Norway has changed considerably. Turnover has doubled, from about 17.5 billion. DKK to 35 billion kr. It's spent billions in the purchase of companies. Are the Councils satisfied with the results? Is she satisfied with the return on the capital used? Is she satisfied with the impact of the large increase in turnover, and not least the synergies in the core area of Posten Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3856	I have a good dialogue with the Post about the arrangements they make. It's the way that the companies they're either inside or inside are very different. They are not designed for comparison without further processing. It's also not all the dispositions the entry has been equally lucky with. I'm happy – I'm very happy – with the way the Post Norway AS is driven, and the commitment they have all the time to try out new areas, as well as the returns on the activities they control.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3868	In question No. 6 to the Council of State in the context of comitology, the Post states in its reply that the company will continue to develop its activities with the Nordics as a domestic market. Then I would like to ask a question to the Council of State, because she has at least got her name on one of the companies that the Post operates with: the so-called Blomquist cars in Slovakia are now called the "Kleppa cars". What I'm asking is: is the Council of State satisfied that there have been a lot of challenges with that company, while we see that it has a turnover of 199 million. NOK and only SEK 3 million. kr in profit? And that can't be part of the core business, because Slovakia is far beyond the North, as far as I see when I read the map. The question is whether the Council of State considers this to be good profitability, and whether it makes sense to continue in this way, with the challenges faced by the company both this winter and past winters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3873	Let me say first of all that the dispositions and the commitment that the Post has in another act are always going to support under what is nuclear activity. It is true that if the post office had been isolated only by post today, they would have had a large and growing deficit to stick to. So for cabotage and what we have traveled there from the representative Hoksrud and others. There's the entry zero tolerance. As demonstrated in winter, the Post has gone through all transport operations in the group to ensure that there are no violations of cabotage rules. They have also tightened up the procedures, so that the transporters who are being used on a single task have to prove in writing that they are not engaged in illegal cabotage operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3880	It has become so in our modern society that companies in the postal sector are international – so also for our modern postal company Posten. Then it is that international trade and trade also strengthen the Post as a company, and it strengthens the total supply for us consumers. But then we also have to give the Post new impulses, also on the owner's side. There are proposals for this today, which are likely to be downgraded. That's why I want to ask the Council of State, which has talked a lot about modernising the Post, whether she doesn't see the need to modernise on the owner's side, as we've done with several other state companies up through, and through it give new impulses to the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3887	The post is, of course, in a very special position, with the idea of rethinking both the activities they are in to secure their core business, and the way in which they perform their services. The ownership of Posten Norway is an important part of the postal sector policy. Together with one-off rights, it is essential to ensure a good and equivalent supply of universal postal services throughout the country. I find it impractical to move ownership to Posten from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I see no reason for this government to go in for the privatization of the Post. It's not up to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3892	I am pleased that the Council of State gives credit to the Post for the way they perform the services and plan for the future. Nevertheless, the Council of State does not give the Post much freedom. Now we have experience that there is a postal message for each major period, i.e. four years between each. What makes the Council so sure that in the four years we must have 1,420 post offices, and not allow the Post to have a dialogue with the Council of State about the number that always fits? And what is it that makes the Council of State not willing to engage in a dialogue with the Post on Saturday's delivery as it goes down and down and down and is therefore a precious service?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3899	It is important for me to have a dialogue with the Post on many questions. Therefore, we have had a discussion of how many post offices and how many other service locations are needed. I thought that we have been constructive, listening to the Post in their desire to turn 149 post offices into Post in Store. That's what we think is right for the future. When it comes to Saturday's summer, I'm the only one in what was said, I don't think anybody's laughing if they don't get their bills. But I have to say that at this point there is no proof of what it is, for example. means to be added to the Post if the Post is only responsible for distributing newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3906	I thought the Council of State had many wise and good judgements about the Post Office's operation. But I have two short questions. The only thing is, where is the rental in the Post so much wrong when it comes to their assessment of the Postal Directive, to which the Post is in favour? Where is the path to the Post completely wrong? The second question relates to a matter that is a great success, that is Post in Store. It's for private customers a salutation, it gives longer opening time. However, we know that there are certain challenges for regional entrepreneurs, because this has some limitations, for example. by postal quantity and unaddressed item, and there are also some limits on the amount. What is the strategy to ensure business in the districts with the current conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3914	It is such that one in a company and in the political leadership and government can evaluate the same questions differently. I record with respect to the Postal Directive that it is important for us to keep track of the decisions that we want to make when it concerns the Post, within the possibilities that exist today. We don't take the one-right letter less than 50 grams, we want the postage to be the same in the whole country, and we don't take it easy on other proposals that had to appear, either on Saturdays or on other proposals. So a strategy for business in the districts. There I think Post in Store Einkel will supplement other Post in Storek, and there also Saturday summer... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3921	Unfortunately, the number is out, and so the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3924	Let me again from the Progress Party stress that we are pleased to register that the Post has a willingness to change. The notification also shows that the company has a greater willingness to change than the owner does. Then the message to the company must be: Hold on, there are new owners on the way! There are three strategic adaptations in the Communication as such, and also that the Government is willing to make changes, although the Progress Party has some proposals relating to their premises. But that's good. Where there is a difference in agreement between the notification, the main strategy for the Post Norway AS is to buy up and move into other areas. The Party recommends an amended strategy, with a clear weight and concentration related to the postal area and its development and renewal. I noticed with satisfaction that the Council of State concluded with the enthusiastic mention of Digipost, and then the invitation to the owner is to ensure that the development work and reconnaissance work that the Post has actually planned for the longest time is used by the owner in a broader context, when the owner has also said that we will all be digital in the mail round. We have recommended a different strategy, and we have made some critical remarks, among other things. through questions to the Council of State when we have discussed the outcome of what has been done in the period from 2004 to 2011, which I touched on in my comment here instead. We're not alone in this. I would like to point out that at the end of April this year the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee dealt with a position related to the management of state companies for 2010, and I quote a committee opinion: ‘The Committee points out that high profitability was an important prerequisite for the expansion of the Posten Group during the period 2004-2008. The follow-up shows that the new postal and logistics activities of the Posten Group have still not achieved satisfactory profitability and that the Posten's IT investments and investments in Bring Citymail have so far caused significant losses to the Group.» «The Committee» – and there is still an overall committee – «calls for the Ministry, in its ownership management, to clarify the importance of activities outside the country or outside the core activities of the Post to contribute to the strengthening of core activities, either by creating profits or synergies». So this is an overall control and constitution committee – including the representatives of Langeland – which, I assume, brings out some of the critical views that the Progress Party also has as a background for its comment on an amended strategy. I remember that the company has changed its character during this period. It's grown a lot, you've bought a lot of sales. The result can be discussed. The effects include: the traditional postal activity at the end of that period – 2010–2011 – fell below half the activity of Post Norway. We believe that there is reason to change that strategy, and we believe that it is also possible to do so without having to have significant adverse effects on the overall performance of the Post Office. Therefore, it is natural to conclude with Digipost, because it shows the ability and willingness of innovation in the traditional area, and more related to the core activities of the Post. We believe that this is a more sensible strategy to follow rather than to buy up transport companies and rather than to buy up IT companies. Finally, I can also mention – since I was in the mention of the position relating to state companies for 2010 – that it was with a tail with references to previous committee comments that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has also had. The result is that the matter is followed further. It is therefore not only the Progress Party, but also an overall Control and Constitutional Committee, which has a critical look at the large buying-in activity carried out by Posten Norge AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3943	The representative of Hoksrud now believes that Posten Norge AS is a good company that does a good job, and he trusts that the Posten, along with the employees, will renew itself and do well in the future. The representative of Sortevik also stressed with satisfaction that the company had a willingness to change. It is good to hear, because in the suspension, the Progress Party calls for a more responsible and forward-looking ownership management, and believes that the Post Norway does not take on societal change. It is good that they obviously mean something else now. With regard to the implementation of the Third Postal Directive and the Unital Portfolio, the Progress Party says that it should organise it with government purchases. I doubt whether such a case would have taken place in the EFTA Court, that they would accept that the Norwegian State would enter with State purchases in order to maintain the unit's portfolio. I would think that they would see it as a distortion of competition. In addition, I have to refer to a report to which the Progress Party and the Right also refer, namely a report from Oslo Economics, which has the title Delivery obligation in the postal sector, which was prepared in 2010. They conclude that the EU Postal Liberalisation Directive states that EU countries cannot maintain exclusive rights on the postal network after 1 January 2011. That's what that report says. Finally, a little visit to Myraune and the history description. He talks about how successful the private post monopoly that started in 1647 was. It was so successful that it lasted for centuries, said the representative Myraune. It didn't last a hundred years. It ended in 1719, and I would think there was a reason why the state took over the post office at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3954	I wonder if the case rapporteur will misunderstand, or what else is the reason why the case rapporteur totally misunderstands. I have never said that Posten Norge AS has not been willing to change — they are doing a great job. We've always said that they do. But what we're more critical of is with social responsibility and whether there's a need for it to still be 100 pst. under state control, when we see that the other areas of activity are the areas of activity which are developed and expanded, inter alia. logistics and transport. I challenged the Council of State – and I registered that she would not respond – if she knew that the cars for Blomquist Trucking, which is operated in Slovakia, and the Post Norway writes in reply to us that the core area is the Nordic region, is called “Kleppa cars” both in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, because it is felt that there are some challenges with those cars. I'm asking myself, "Is the Council satisfied with $3 million?" kr in profit, of a turnover of 199 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Three million. NOK in profit and SEK 199 million. kr on the market on something which is obviously not the home territory of the Posten Norway. That's what this is about, and that's what our questions were. We think, as I said, that the Post is doing a good job of conversion. They've shown that they're a company that manages conversions in a good way. They bring employees in a good way, and they are exemplary in that regard. But the question is whether it still has to be so that the state has to own 100 pst. by the company. We disagree with that, and I think that's fair and perfectly right. I see that the Council of State is drawing up articles, and I'm excited about what she thinks about her own company, where some of the company cars have been nicknamed after her.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3963	There's going to be a little bit of a contradiction in the Progress Party's production here. It's not the first time and it's probably the last time either. It could happen to us that we have problems keeping our tongue straight in our mouths. But I feel that the Progress Party on the one hand is going into a nine-time control company when it concerns individual companies and how much excess they have here and there, while at the same time it is important for them to organise the Post Norway AS even freer. Then I thought that since they have deposits, partly at the level of detail, they should be pleased that Posten Norway is a state-owned company, which is closely followed by the way in which the company is organised. In their answers, they should also be pleased that they have heard that the main field of action for Post Norway is the Nordic region, and especially Norway, which of course is already in the statutes. I have not heard the name of these cars before. I appreciate Mr. Bård Hoksrud's involvement in different aspects of the transport sector. At times I thought that both the department and the government were given somewhat misleading information from Hoksrud on his travels around the country, for example. when he says nothing is happening in the transport sector. I'm not going to go in here, but I hope he's noticed with satisfaction the environmental exposure that the Post has, that they've actually been implemented in that area as well. So I just have to say in the end that I am very pleased with the broad plural that stands behind the way the Post is organized today. I will promise both Sortevik and others that we will follow the Post Norway closely as well. We are pleased that we have a common commitment to the company and to the Department of Good Postal Services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3976	I actually asked for the floor for a brief comment on the case rapporteur and on Hallgeir Langeland, who almost attacked me and the Right because we used the argument that when the Post was created, it was placed on private hands. It wasn't meant to be, and it's not in the text either. We've just shown it as an example that it hasn't always been stately. When the 100 years later became state-owned, there was probably a reason for that. But it might be useful to be a little open-minded and think about it again in the future, and maybe it's time to think about it a little bit. At the same time, when reference is also made to Frédéric Bastiat, who said that when goods do not cross borders, soldiers will do so, it was not intended to believe that European soldiers come to Norway because the post does not cross borders – absolutely not. But it was referred to the Community idea, which was established in Europe, and which we should be part of. That is why we also believe that we can participate in a European postal directive. We don't think the disaster will come over Norway for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3983	I'll be very short too. This is to the representative Hoksrud, who claims that somehow I just want to misunderstand. I am now referring from the position regarding what has been said about the Post’s activities ‘not taking in the significant changes in society that have been observed in the last few years’. This is in the setting. I just underline it, and that is a note from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3988	Then the next speaker is not surprising Bård Hoksrud. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e3993	I understand that both the Council of State and others are in great need here, because the Council of State was aware that I thought nothing happened. Yes, it does not happen very much, I have said – 11 km of motorway, which they opened a little while ago in 2012. I don't think it's very much when we see what neighboring countries and others do. So I actually think it's good that you can have two thoughts in your head at once, three is also very good, but I'm a little afraid now, because it's cheek eggs, and they've said that's something they don't want us to keep going. But I think it's been a good discussion and a good debate, and we disagree on something, but we're actually quite agreeing on a lot about the Post Office's business. I don't think we've ever agreed more than what we are now. We have been much more dissenting in the previous debates, at least the last time we debated, among other things. on banking services and other types of things. I think it is good to maintain the bank obligation in the case of country mailers, but that we have got rid of it on the other things. I think that's very good. It shows that we're going in the right direction, both the company and the bulk of the population, or really the whole Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4000	I almost managed to hold on, but when the representative Hoksrud says that we agree, largely agree, then I have to take the floor, because we are not really. We are far from agreeing. The right-hand side, represented at the Right and Advance Party, wants to privatise the Post, wants to implement the Postal Directive, which consequently receives a completely different postal service in Norway – a postal service that may not reach all, or which costs the State very much in purchase, which allows private to foam the cream in the central areas, and the State must subsidize the rest. Speaking of which, I thought of a quote that the Right uses a lot at the moment – «humans, not billions». It's good to discuss a little bit of politics again, because now the billions come out. Now there will be billions, not humans, and that is what is the real policy of the right – billions, not people. When the Right has adorned itself for the Christian People's Party, one more talks about people and not about billions, but the reality is the opposite. Too bad the representative Hareide is not in the Chamber, because I fear that the Christian People's Party is willing to sell this policy. When the representative Hareide says that he does not lose the night sleep of this, it scares me a little. That means that one is ready to negotiate away ownership of the Post and other state-owned companies that have important social functions. Here we separate layers. This is part of our welfare thinking and welfare thinking, which provides community and equal services to the population. I also think it is terrible fun, like the representative Langeland, to hear the Right and the Advance Party talk about cabotage and social dumping. I hope it also applies when they discuss other issues of working life. I am not so sure that the reality is when it comes to the problem. So it's said that the Post shows willingness to change. Then why would a privateize, if one is so pleased with the Post? What's the point, what's the point? Finally and as an important point here: one has spent a lot of time in the notes writing about the past and using examples that are centuries old, from a society that we guarantee will not return to. So while the right-hand side is looking back, we're looking forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4012	I sat and thought that maybe Freddy de Ruiter would have stayed anyway, because what he's going into now was to describe the policy that two big parties in this room have the intention to lead after the next big elections. He fully showed that he knows very little about it. So it's not about what he saw with full weight, that's the fear of privatization, or of the private element in everything that might be public, which is constantly being expressed – a private allergy, we've called it. That's not what this is about. It is about modernising state institutions, improving the provision of services to improve the provision of services to consumers and those who are required to have it. That's what this is about. And then it's about giving companies that are going to provide these services the best possible conditions to be able to provide them. That's what this is about. And if anyone is in doubt about the continuation, then follow along, follow along after 2013!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4017	I'm going to be very short, but I have to say that you're not surprised at the input of the representative de Ruiter. So it's the Progress Party and the Right there's something wrong with it. It's not like there's very much wrong with the country's prime minister, too? Because he has exactly the same view as these two parties that we are going to introduce the Postal Directive. Is that the problem? The post came to Norway in 1647. Norway was then a protectorate under Denmark. We stayed in union with Sweden in 1814. If we're going to continue to discuss privately or publicly, it's actually that there are completely different nations that have decided this for Norway, and not Norway alone, at the time we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4024	I just want to repeat briefly both to the Council of State and perhaps in particular to the representative Freddy de Ruiter that there was an overall Committee of Control and Constitution that in April this year looked at the outcome of the strategy chosen for the Post Norway. The Workers' Party is very familiar with representatives of the Control and Constitutional Committee, so they agree with this. I want to repeat the last part of one of the two opening remarks there: ‘The Committee asks the Ministry, in its management of its ownership, to clarify the importance of contributing to the strengthening of core activities, either by creating profits or synergies, outside or outside the core activities of the Post.’;» [[...]] All parties have reason to make that comment. It's been a concern. It is therefore a concern that the Progress Party is not alone in this position, but that all the other parties share, including the party of the representative de Ruiter. This clarification of core activities is important, perhaps particularly important when we have heard the answers that have come from far lower transport activities in EU countries. It is a good piece from there to the core activity of the Post in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4038	It was obvious that I hit something, with three pieces on the platform. First of all, I don't know much about this, and little about it with public and private and the effects on society. No, I don't think so. But it's a very good attempt to park their opponents to say that they can't do much about things. To the right: let's be clear that we're going to continue discussing ideology, we're going to discuss the effects of a society that has public welfare schemes versus privatizing. It will be an important theme for the campaign. I'm recording that the Right doesn't want to talk about it, but of course we'll talk a lot about it, because it's important for the voters, and it's important for, among other things. the employees of the Post Office. So to the right that says we have ‘private allergy’. One could turn it around and say, as it is true, that the right obviously has a public allergy. I don't think it makes any sense to discuss who has an allergy to what, but what makes sense is to discuss what works well. We have a Norwegian model that works very well, with a mixed ownership, with a mixed economy, with a welfare state with which most people are quite satisfied. Why twirl with it? When you have to go back hundreds of years in time to give examples, it says a little about how little one has to go into this debate. One agrees with the objectives, but fearlessly disagrees with the instruments. Our point is that if one implements the Right Party and the Advance Party policies in this area, the Post will have major problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4051	I'm probably getting a bit of criticism that I'm withdrawing the debate, but I take it as a warm-up to my later debates; I have seven issues later this evening! I think this is an interesting debate, and I'm going to be the last one to stand on the pulpit and say that the representative de Ruiter knows nothing. I think the challenge is that he actually knows too much in some areas. Because when the representative de Ruiter can stand on the pulpit of the Norwegian gutter and say that the Prime Minister's policy will lead to the deletion of the Post in Norway, I think it is alarming – that the Prime Minister will get it from his own in this way. Then I have a feeling that when the representative de Ruiter and others talk about the Post or other changes in public institutions, the institutions you're talking about are. You don't talk about the possibilities of maybe getting a little better services, maybe you can get a little bit more efficient, maybe you can get something more out of the appropriations and billions that the public sector has at its disposal. One forgets those sitting on the other side of the table and is to receive either postal services, health services, school services or transport services. They don't mean anything to the world. What is covered by the kind of argument used by the Ruiters and others is that they always talk about social dumping and miserable relationships for employees in the private sector. I'm from the private sector. Fortunately, there are still more — at least still — private sector jobs than in the public sector. But with the policies of the Ruiters, it will go quite quickly until we get more employees in the public than in the private sector. The point is that people who work in the private sector are making significant efforts. Whether they've come from a public institution and into the private sector, they're doing a good job. But you don't want to talk about that. When one stands for the kind of ideology that the Ruiters do, one is so concerned about it that even the Prime Minister is a danger to the country. You forget that. The Labour Party has been responsible for the largest privatisation of history in Norway. You forget that, too. It is possible – excuse me – to provide me well in the areas where the Workers' Party has privatised. That's enough evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4060	Freddy de Ruiter has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4063	There's a difference between shaving and cutting off the entire chin. Obviously, Mr Sandberg did not understand that. As far as the Postal Directive is concerned, we had a democratic, open debate in the Labour Party, where a majority at our national meeting fell to the conclusion that we did not want to accept it and would veto it. We stand for that with our backs straight. We listened to the employees in the post office, we listened to the trade movement. We're proud of that. But there have been slightly different perceptions of reality, and it is certainly in the Sandberg party as well. Then there was a claim that I almost had to answer, because it was said that if the Ruiter ideology had been realized, there would only be employees in the public sector. That's one of the strangest statements I've heard for a long time. To take some statistics: from 2005 until now, 300,000 new jobs have been created in Norway. Well and well 200,000 of these have been created in the private sector, and under 100 000 have been created in the public sector. The numbers speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4072	Actually, I'm just asking for a short comment. It's because the representative Arne Sortevik is very diligent to write posts that he sends to various newspapers, and if I don't endorse his comment, I could have tried to make a statement that this had not been commented on by the Council of State. I would therefore just like to thank the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs for reminding me that I am going to follow up on the comments that have been made. I have to say that I don't think it's going to be a very difficult task to follow up, because it seems to me like that comment, as it is written, is in line with the way we already follow up the Post. But when I first have the word: the representative Sandberg swings to the great heights, where he actually performs to say that the way the government organizes the postal services these days is without thought for those who accept the services. First of all, I have to say that the post office's bet on Digipost is a great possibility for me to think of several of those who accept the traditional mail services, for those who want to benefit from it will get a green mailbox right into the stand. It is my wish that far more people join the use of Digipost. When it comes to the Progress Party's concern for those who in some way had to have trouble getting part of the Post's services, I can't say that that concern is so exaggerated in the Progress Party's comments. It is such that those who have a long way to bank – let go, let go. Adding banking services to the rural post offices is out of date for the Progress Party. It goes against it, and it's also so that the recordings we've been given from smaller companies that want to keep Saturday's rendezvous also from the post they get, no, it doesn't defuse the Progress Party at all. Saturday afternoon they will end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4081	First, to the council, which might want to read the setting again. It is alarming that the Council of State is standing on the pulpit and making claims about the Progress Party and others that are not right – which are directly wrong. It is a unanimous committee that joins banking services in the Post Office. So I thought that was disturbing. To try to get the smile in place. To the representative de Ruiter: I didn't just say public servants. I said that I feared there would be more public employees than we have employees in the private sector. That's what I said, and we're very close. Then we get a diet-benefit question that I even think the Workers' Party will even think about at least two-three times before you go on, because it's a challenge. Then I hear that they Ruiter again – not for the first time, and probably not for the last time – says that the Workers' Party has now established 200,000 jobs in the private sector. The Labour Party has not established a single job in the private sector – not even half a time, not even a part-time job. The private sector clearly has it itself. But this government has done its absolute best to ensure that there are not too many employees in the private sector. It's a challenge. And that's the facts. But that the Workers' Party can be allowed to boast 30 000–40000–50000 new employees in the public sector – yes, they will be allowed to do so, because that is right. In fact, the Progress Party believes that it is possible to establish jobs in the private sector that can carry out the same tasks and services as are done in the public sector. Then the most important thing for us is that it is what is delivered, which has quality, that those who receive all of these services are satisfied – not what the Workers' Party or the LO thought about ideology, because you have allergies to allow others to challenge and stand on the starting line and compete. That is what the Labour Party and this government are not interested in, and it will in the long run create difficult conditions that we might see suggestive of in other countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4090	Then I must be allowed to ask for an unambiguous reason. I have gone a little wild on the road here, down through the Progress Party's historical overview in the banking services settings, so I just have to thank both the Progress Party and the Stortinget for having that part of the proposal agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4095	That was probably a good end to the debate. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4111	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4120	After the previous debate, I might have to be careful to clarify this, but I think everyone agrees that it's a very good day when we decide to build more roads. Everyone agrees. Today we are dealing with the development of E16 on the route Føhnhus-Bagn. Today's road is narrow, steep and has a lot of turns, so this will also be important for road safety. The extension of E16 Fønhus-Bagn in the municipality of South Aurdal is the first stage of the planned construction of E16 between Fønhus and Bjørgo in the municipalities of South and North Aurdal. There is a unanimous committee that is in favour of the development, but, as the vote shows, there is disagreement as to how the road is to be paid and what the width of the road is to be. The SV parties, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party support the government's proposal that the project be financed by state grants and tolls, while the Progress Party proposes that the whole process be financed by full government funding. I expect the other parties to explain their views on the matter, and I will therefore use the rest of my contribution to explain the view of the Progress Party on the matter. It seems to me that this is a piece of work between the state and the drivers. It is then worth noting that this case fully shows how hopelessly expensive it is to build roads on payment. The starting point for this distance is that it will cost 420 million. kr to build up the road, and the proposition states that the State will grant 200 million. kr, and that the drivers have to pay 200 million. kr. But in addition to this, the drivers have to pay approx. $180 million. NOK in interest expenses and SEK 45 million. NOK to collect the money over a 15-year period. That means that the drivers actually have to pay $445 million. NOK to pay a road costing 420 million. to build. So this means a project of 420 million. The cost to society is 645 million. kr. It refers to the total madness this way of financing road construction is. With this way of financing road construction, it is no wonder that it takes a long time to build up the road network in Norway. When you look at the expansion of the road width as the proposition suggests that the road should be expanded, it also fully shows that today's government has not learned anything from the faults they themselves, with the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa in the head, many times our predecessors have criticized in this room: 40 years ago they built so narrow roads that that's why we can't expand more midway faster. With this as the back carpet, I had really hoped that the government would have come up with better thoughts, but in the proposition, one would add up to a road width of 8.5 meters. This means that if it turns out that there are going to be accidents on the new road, you don't have the opportunity to set up, among other things. middle parts, because the road is too narrow. It should be a prerequisite that, when new national roads are built, they must be built with a standard that ensures the possibility of road safety measures and that the road is dimensioned for the future. For no one knows what it will cost to do this once in the future, but everyone knows that it's going to be swine. It seems to me that when you build such projects, you look at first: How much can the drivers get tolled? And then you look at how much money you're willing to deposit from the state, and then you build the way out of it. Instead, what standard should we have on a forward-looking road? And then you build a way like that. I had hoped that the council and the government had learned from their predecessors 40 years ago, but unfortunately we will probably see that this is not the case today. But for both me and the Advancement Party, it is a joyous day every time we in this room make the decision to roll out the asphalt in a large moon and build out and repair our roads. Then we're going to bet that after the 2013 elections you get another government that will be forward-looking in terms of road width and standard, and that we can stop the tolling device and the expensive way this is to build roads in this country. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4148	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4151	When the expansion of Fønhus–Bagn is now confirmed and then started, there is still an example of a shift in the pace of transport policy and the government is following up the offensive transport plan that is in force for this period. It is a decision that is pleasing not only to the people of Valdres, but to all those who use E16 as a link between Austland and the West. Fønhus-Bagn is the first step in the development between Fønhus and Bjørgo, and it is a long-lasting and necessary extension. The road has no satisfactory standard based on traffic volume and function as a highway between Austria and the West. The road is steep, narrow, curved and not least rasped on parts of the stretch. There has been a race that has closed the road, and on the route it has worn not least with the heavy traffic that travels between Austland and the West. Now there is conversion and repair of the existing road to the two-field road with a width of 8.5 metres. On a razed part at Bergsund, a tunnel approximately 650 metres long shall be built. The project also includes the construction and conversion of several crossings, bridges and subways, the establishment of bus pockets and chain space. In addition, there will be the conversion of several outputs and timber sites and the implementation of noise measures. So this is going to be good. I would like to stress that it is important to have the necessary level clarifications and decisions for the second stage of development between Bån and Bjørgo so quickly that the development between Fønhus and Bån is made coherently. It is also in line with the expressed will of the government to get rapid, coherent development of road projects. In the proposition, the Ministry also says that they will work to ensure that the development of the entire route is carried out as continuously as possible. I trust that it will happen. We need to see this expansion in the context of the major E16 investment in the current national transport plan. E16 is the main road between Oslo and Bergen and is the east-west road with the best regularity in winter. Here it is possible to keep up the road when other east-west connections are disconnected. But very often the heavy transport wears out with steep, thrones, swinging and smooth party. Heavy traffic represents 13 pst. on this route, which makes the need for expansion great, yes, greater than if one only looks at daily or annual traffic alone. It has been a great store for car storage companies in these areas. Upgrading the mountain crossing of Mount File is now taking place too fully, which will strengthen the regularity of the mountain. In the NTP, it was foreseen that two road projects should be financed by their own posts on the State budget. It's E6 west of Alta, and it's the stretch of Eye–Borlaug on E16. It also shows the willingness to do something about this road quickly and efficiently. It's a form of project finance. Project funding is not synonymous with private forwarding, as someone seemed to believe. It is to be fully financed in such a way that the development can take place as quickly and effectively as the technical and practical steps are taken. It can then absolutely be done with state resources and tolls. Svinesundbrua and the Bjørvika tunnel have their own budget posts, and we have good experience with that. Eighteenth to Fønhus-Bagn: Toll financing is a local policy issue and the county council has taken the necessary guarantee decisions. The Ministry has responded to local requests for access ceilings, i.e.: a limit on the number of passes that you have to pay for in the calendar month, as far as the direction lines open for it, i.e. a ceiling of 40. Tolls of 445 million have been taken into account. SEK, divided by 220 million. SEK to cover part of the investment costs, approximately 180 million. NOK in net interest expenditure and SEK 45 million. kr for collection costs. So I'm listening to Bård Hoksrud that the Progress Party is running its rehearsed lesson against tolls. But in any case, someone has to pay for road development. It's the Norwegian people, either do it over the tax haven or by partial toll collection. What happens when you collect tolls in part is that the drivers who use the road pay a slightly larger proportion than those who don't use the road. Then, of course, a person can reflect on how fair or unfair it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4179	Sometimes the Minister of Transport uses an expression to me saying that she would wish Øyvind Halleraker was a little happy sometimes. I'm right as it is, but I also want to brag a bit of the council today. What I want to say is that she's very good at making toll propositions, and especially late in the year before we split up in the summer. But we can get it through every time. And we broadly agree on what it says. But a little bit of paint, we have to be allowed to get up in demand. And it is related to a comment and two that we have in the matter, namely that we believe that when you take this promise and make this grip that will make the road better accessible and safer, you choose not to build the road so wide that it can be set up in the middle at a later stage. I think you should have taken that into account. I also think that it should be taken into account that the growth of traffic almost always in Norwegian road projects is greater than the forecasts used, and then we get rid of the problem that Hoksrud was facing. It's kind of an old-fashioned way of doing things -- we're based on the evolution of the past and not on the forecast and development that we're looking forward to. Sometimes I wonder, what are we going to do here in the Storting to get a change on this regime? I'm not so sure if it's just the Council of State that's the problem here; I think it's going down the floors. It makes me think that when we had a fairly uniform and common railway strategy in this room, we said again and again that new routes in Norway should be built for 250 km/h – and finally that was the case! In the last project that has now been launched, it has been. So I think we have to get together in Stortinget and say that we have to plan for the future and not for the developments we've seen in the past. Then I also think that we could make this a lot smarter by using project funding methods, and then I am not talking about project budgeting methods. For project funding methods, the framework of the project is defined – the time of the start, the time of the end, and the responsibility is given to a company to develop and choose the methods that are considered appropriate. It is project finance – whether it is private that owns the company or it is a state company.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4190	Initially, SV has no objection to discussing other solutions with the bulk of the population, as we did when it came to the railway, when we collect the Right and the other parties in a broad plurality. We can also do that when it comes to road safety, if one thinks there might be something good about it. But I think the main point here is the economic framework -- the money. Right has had the Minister of Finance himself, and then there was very little money to go on, unlike when SV is in government – then there is a lot of money to go on! This may also have to do with political priorities, as this government meets its national transport plan, as opposed to the government of which Halleraker has been part. But I'm, as I said, open for a discussion, and for a broad majority, if we think we can get to something else that kind of changes the course. I think all the parties are concerned that there should be road safety in the country, but we can't imagine that Norway can have middle parts anywhere. I think many people want yellow strips first and better roads – and that's what they get. So now they're getting a fix on a road trip with racial protection problems, swings and traffic accidents. We are now doing something about this, together with the Billistan – through funding – and I am very happy about that. SV is often criticized for not going too far at all. That's not true. We're going for this road that's just it! But there are other road projects – e.g. one that we're going to discuss tomorrow – with which we wear more, and highways in cities also wear us down; we think that we have to choose the collective solutions. But this is a good thing, this is good for the transport in this area between the West and the Austland. So good luck with the road!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4203	I'm very happy, too. The Valdres municipalities have been working for several decades to repair the E16 to a standard that is appropriate to the route. Both in the 1970s and 1990s, it was decided that E16 should be the route between Oslo and Bergen. However, these decisions have not been worth mentioning in the form of road upgrading for Valdres’ part — until this government came into place. That the road between east and west through Valdres is in poor condition, does not at least know all the wagon train drivers who commute this road. In the north, Filefjell has been a challenge, especially in winter, and in the south, we have had the rascal stretch at Bergsund and through Baknskleiva. We're on File Mountain, and now we're starting in the south as well. The goal is the most continuous extension from Fønhus to Bjørgo. And what a unanimous committee says in one of its comments is quite right: ‘Good transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for a well-functioning and modern country where people, goods and services can move quickly to where they need it most.’ And: ‘For Norway, as an export nation, good road links between parts of the country and beyond to the continent are particularly important.’ When the current transport plan was presented in 2009, the E16 became one of the winning routes. While projects in Valdres in the previous NTP were not even mentioned, this government – with central government councils in the Ministry of Transport – has given priority to this important year of travel. The section Fønhus-Bagn will be completed with today’s decision by the end of 2014-2015. The work starts with the section Fønhus-Bagn. The road does not have a satisfactory standard based on traffic volume and function as a highway between East and West. Annual traffic is not so high, but the road has a large share of heavy transport. In addition, Valdres is one of the largest tourist and cabin destinations in Norway, leading to significant traffic growth during weekends and holidays. When one in addition adds that the road on the route is narrow and that several places are not mid-point, it is said that the road per day is not maximum in terms of road safety. I also think that more than myself remember the riots after the breeds that went on in the autumn of 2009, where stones of the size of smaller cars came down on the road at Bergsund. Fortunately, no damage was done, and the government got funds for cleaning up and securing. But once we've adopted this proposition today, the construction of a tunnel can start at this distance, through that mountain cliff. In the long term, the entire section of Fønhus-Bagn-Bjørgo shall be expanded. However, due to the planning situation, the project is divided into two parts, and the route Bagn–Bjørgo is taken next time. I assume then that we still have a government that follows up the E16 in its budgets. That's a prerequisite! It is a long canvas to fade — from the idea to large road projects to their realization. Strong efforts by the local population and wise local politicians are a prerequisite for driving the process forward in a good way – as is the case in this case as well. In that context, I would like to commend the cooperation that has been between the municipality and the state road system. Here, local policy initiatives have contributed to proposals and solutions related to several challenges — not least with regard to the bomb resolution. South Aurdal is not the only municipality in Norway that will have a toll station in the middle of its municipality, but as far as I know, this is the only municipality in the country that has no bypass roads. It means a heavy burden on the local population. The load they take, but to ease the situation, they get a hold of the number of passages. All the reward for constructive work! It costs to build a road in this country. A stretch such as Fønhus-Bagn represents a great uplift for the community. But it's going to happen in a fissure layer with the drivers that's going to take direct advantage of the road. When we know what savings an improved road billing means in terms of time, prosperity and risk of human suffering, I'm sure this is a proper and good priority. In his time, I knew to the rapporteur, Mr Helland, in South Aurdal, that the extension of this section would be under way while he was still rapporteur, and I am glad that there is no need for a barte fall in South Aurdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4243	It was a pleasure in Valdres on the day we announced that this case was now about the project Fønhus-Bagn put before Stortinget. It is joy today when the decision is made. I feel the need to thank the Committee for its rapid and thorough treatment. This project is an important upgrade on a particularly important transport route between East and West. The construction will be better part of the main roadway through Valdres and is linked to the most robust mountain crossing we have between East and West. The stretch has reduced the speed of several points as well as a rassified game. The road is narrow and has several unobstructed exits from dwellings and sideways. The distance is about 23 km and should be extended to two lanes. To secure the traffic lights against the race, the road is made through a 650-metre tunnel past the rassified parts. The road shall also be established with safe exits and crossings, new bridges and subways, timber vaults and noise protection measures. The road will put some places in a new line. The line is the first part of the Fønhus-Bagn-Bjørgo extension. The government proposes that the extension of the section Fønhus-Bagn should start in the autumn of this year and be completed by the end of 2014/2015. Then it's supposed to be that Bagn–Bjørgo is being developed as a continuous extension of the expansion of Fenhus–Bagn. So this is one of the worst sections of the E16 in Valdres – a curved road, steep and with difficult running conditions. The extension will further strengthen the E16 as a safe and robust all-year path. Development will mean much more traffic security. Some questions have been raised here in the financing plan. Let me say that this is a local spice layer. There is a cooperation that has made it possible to come up with this proposal now – 200 million. kr government funds and 220 million. kr with tolls. It is important to stress that the proposal that is here today is based on 6.5 pst. interest rate. It is the toll company and the Road Directorate that make the final agreement, and toll companies are usually good at getting lower interest rates. Both tariffs and the location of the bombs have been the subject of our own local discussions. It was important to take care of those who have no bypasses, who have to run this road every day – hence the roof of 40 passages and discounts using electronic tags. Then it is added that the toll station will be moved from the location at Kopervik when the path Bagn–Bjørgo is opened. The location will then be close to the municipal boundary between South and North Aurdal for the rest of the recovery period. It's also local they've taken it up, and it's important for us to meet it. So there is a good cooperation between the municipality and the county that has made this possible. It is also from local holding this model with the pass-by roof has come and has been followed up. Let me take advantage of today's opportunity to thank the Stortinget for the quick treatment – I have done everything – and congratulate the people and road users in Valdres, and in particular South Aurdal, on a new road. Some have asked questions about the width of the road. There I think that despite the fact that we are now building a lot of roads, we have to take care of the road standards, otherwise it would be difficult to realize as many projects as we have done – and this is a way in which they are very happy about the width in Valdres.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4262	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4265	I still can't push myself, despite what the Council answered the last question. I have been in this room so many times and heard the council say that they made mistakes 40 years ago. That's what you have to end with. This is therefore part of a European road, an important route between the East and the West. It means a lot. What is needed for the Council of State to see that a European road is so important to people that proper road safety is important, and that it must be possible to bring up the middle parts if it is necessary? We're going to have to hope that the need doesn't come. But why do we keep building narrow and continue to make the mistakes that we made 40 years ago? Doesn't the Council of State agree? What will the Council of States do to ensure that our European pathways, even though they are now called highways, have a proper standard?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4273	I actually thought it was very important to realize a wider and better road than the current one on this route. He was planned and ready. The next one is planning, so that we can get consistent expansion on some of the worst sections of E16. When the daily traffic on the route today is 2,200 vehicles per day, and there is strong growth in traffic on weekends and on other exit days, I think a wider road than 8,5 meters will, as the road standard says, involve an annual traffic of over 8 000 vehicles. Instead of new planning, new calculations and new costs, I thought it was more important to realize the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4278	This is a project to which the Christian People's Party fully subscribes. I am pleased with the good words of the Council of State to the Committee, which has dealt with this matter quickly and effectively. My question relates to the state council's intervention. Here's a calculated interest rate of 6.5 pst. As the council also said, everything indicates that this will be a lower rate than 6.5 pst. the underlying interest rate. This means that the project is actually cheaper than it has appeared. Are the state councils now deliberately working against the national transport plan, so that we can just get a calculated interest rate, reflecting the real level, so that the projects do not appear to be more expensive than they really are?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4285	Let me first say that the cost of this project, 420 million. kr, is real. But the total cost, that is, the amount of tolls to be paid – that is, the total cost toll companies are good at getting them down. Then I have to say that we are working on different improvement bases for the road and rail projects we present, including funding, cost-benefit and much more. So the answer to that is, yes, we look at different sides and look forward to having a debate in connection with NTP about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4292	In response to the question of road width, the Council of State refers to road normality. In other discussions earlier on the introduction of road safety measures, not least the middle parts of other road sections, the Council of State has, as far as I remember, opened up to deviate from normal road conditions. Here we are going to build a new European road. So these are the most important of the state's roads. Isn't it a cross of thought that we build as narrow as we actually do? In addition, we are building in two stages – one has to lie down, it is idiotic enough in itself, if it can be used as a parliamentary expression, at least it is a bit crooked and extra expensive. But is it not a crossroads that we still operate and build the most important state roads with very narrow road width? We've seen more examples, and we've pointed this out in a matter we had to deal with not long ago. We want to look at the width of European roads. Will the Council of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4297	Our European roads are very different and have very different seasonal traffic. I cannot see with my best will that it is the right way – literally – to go, as the Progress Party will – to compare the way and say that because there is an E ahead, the width should be equal. In this case, if we were to have an extension, we had to create a new control plan, a new building plan, new ground studies, and a new area had to be acquired, i.e. one and a half more years on a stretch that is very urgent to improve. I am very happy that we are there today, and that we can start working at the cottage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4304	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4309	I think it's sad that the Council of State chooses the approach of continuing to make the same mistakes that you made 40 years ago. She has opened up the possibility of avoiding or not following normal road conditions, for example. shall set up the centre dividers. Here's what we're talking about, to follow up what the council says, that you could expand the road by a foot and a half. It's very small. It costs very little to do it now, but it'll cost a lot to do it if you're going to do it afterwards, because there's more accidents happening. I think it's sad that the only thing you're interested in is annual traffic and that there's a big difference on the European roads. I think it would have been a good starting point for building new roads in 2012, building new, safe, safe and environmentally friendly roads. Unfortunately, I have seen from the answers to the Council of State that there is not yet the Council of State. I hope the Council of State is going to get there. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important to get this project in place. Governments will be late for the Storting, but the Storting and the Committee have said that this is important – we want to deal with it quickly in order to get started. But it has to go on as well. I think it's a shame that you don't look forward to things, instead of looking at what you've done before, and keep doing the same stupidities. So to the real reason why I asked for the word. That's two things. I was made aware that it says on page 2 of the setting: ‘The majority are satisfied with the achievement of a safe and safe road on the Fønhus–Bagn route on E18 [[...]] This applies to E16. It's a little bit important that you take care of it. In my first post, I struck off a little bit for the public. I cut off a little when it comes to the tolls – at least that was not the state amount. I said 200 million. kr in tolls, but it shall be 220 million. DKK in tolls and 200 million. kr in government contributions. That's 225 million. kr, which is the amount to be paid for collection costs and interest costs. So it's still going to be 645 million. NOK – for a road costing 420 million. to build. This is a bad economy. It's a shame we're lending money to 1.8 pst. to other countries, so that they can build both motorways and other things — and perhaps even lend out the money to their banks, which can lend out expensively to Norwegian toll companies, and thus skin the drivers in Norway. I think it's a bad solution. But I'm really glad that we're going to get a way out of this, and that we're going to get this development in place. Of course, it should have been done completely without tolls, with only state funding. That would be the best. It would be not least socio-economic very good – not least for all residents living there, who now have to pay an extra high tax in the form of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4329	I register that the Progress Party will have a one-and-a-half-year postponement of this path. I can't do that for you. I am very happy that today we are at the point that we can say that we start with a repair of this road to the autumn. I must say that we were forced to go some extra rounds locally, because toll projects should have legitimacy locally. They themselves suggested that it should be, but when they asked questions about the pass-by roofs, etc., it was important to go one more round, which meant that we found a solution that was accepted locally. The board Hoksrud touches on something very important, and it's building the future. So let's do that. We have to do that from road to road – literally. And then there might be different views of what's the most forward-looking, either building out of the plans and the clarifications that are now taking place, or going through new rounds. So in this case, we're going to do the first one. I would like to remind you that today's annual traffic is 2,200 – and he is increasing on weekends. And that's also the way to make exceptions for some middle parts. We are now hearing questions about middle parts at 6,000 a.m. There's a big difference between 2,200 and 6,000. Then Hoksrud could blame us for going to new rounds to find a toll scheme that was also localized. This is the case for a party that sees no limits when it comes to government funds and government funding. We are content to put our proposals into a collective economic arrangement. I have to remind you that there is an incredible amount of good road repair and good development of new roads in these days – more will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4344	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4358	I'm going to make a very short article as a case manager. When it comes to good flight safety, we're all busy with it. I think we're all going around thinking that when we get into a plane, we're not going to experience that any of the pilots have used drugs just before they're going to transport the passengers to where they're going. On May 11 this year we could read in VG Net that a full SAS pilot was suspended for one year. He was drawn in a.96 per mill a few days earlier at Arlanda. The pilot, a 40-year-old man from Sweden, was signed into a routine checkup. This is quite serious, as we also know that everyone added to SAS has to stay completely sober for at least eight hours before going out and flying. That is why I am pleased that the government is now taking action and is tightening up several regulations in the aviation laws that will remedy this. We all have to work actively to make aviation safer – as safe as possible. To name e.g. where appropriate, the illicit use of drugs is now largely going to have the same rules as those contained in the Road Traffic Act. It must be time to say that. Of course, it should be such that the law against — and the possibility of discovering — the use of drugs in aviation should be at least as strict as the law on road transport and traffic. When we now accept these changes in aviation laws, that means, among other things. allow the police to carry out random checks on pilots, air traffic controllers and other air personnel without prior suspicion of a criminal offence. That's good. Otherwise, the changes in laws will improve passenger rights, violations of Airport Services, noise and terrorist attacks etc. When we now get more targeted and effective reactions to Airports and airlines that do not comply, it will ensure non-discrimination and help to appreciate the operators that are serious in the market. But most importantly, the changes in the laws will increase the level of security within aviation. I am now presenting this setting, and it is a consultation committee that recommends it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4381	I'll just make a few short comments. I thought the case spokesperson was in a very good and popular way working out why changes are necessary. I'm glad that a co-consultant committee has joined the government's proposal. Let me just say that Norwegian aviation is safe. Security is the most important thing on every occasion. There is reason to state that when the government submits such a comprehensive bill, the enforcement of aviation laws is the main theme. Nevertheless, when we do, it is because the consequences of lack of security are extensive and can be fatal in aviation. As the populace, therefore, we have a duty all the time to ensure that the level of security is getting better and better. It is because aviation competition is so hard and service margins are so small that those who want to survive have to cut costs. It goes without saying that it can have security implications. Then it is decisive that we have a robust legislation and an enforcement device to help maintain security. Although security is always the most important thing, it is important to avoid unnecessary negative societal consequences of enforcing the rules. By providing for a periodic penalty payment and a fee for a criminal offence, we make it possible to react to a breach of the law without having to close Airports or put flights on the ground. We see clearly how demanding it is in these days. Let me also mention that a firm and consistent enforcement of legislation is necessary to ensure a level playing field, especially between airlines. It's unfair for the best actors if others can fool themselves away from costs. Then the proposals we are making here, which the Storting agrees with, are a combination of some EEA-related changes and proposals that we are making on our own, because aviation is an international industry, but here are proposals that are also being made by the government to ensure the highest possible security in Norway – proposals that specifically apply to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4397	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 18 and 19 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4424	During this period, the Judicial Committee has had a lot of issues that have repeatedly shown that crime is becoming more and more cross-border. In a big and important big message like Stortinget addressed a little over a year ago, Report. Art. No. 7, The fight against organised crime was one of the main instruments of the Stortinget’s broad and unanimous agreement that Norway had to participate actively and widely in international judicial cooperation to combat both organised crime in general and cross-border crime in particular. So this matter that we're going to deal with now, is going into the very picture where the Storting has laid a good foundation, in the Right's opinion, for international judicial cooperation, which should be both effective and targeted. Good and well-functioning European judicial cooperation has been established. Much of this can be dated back to the 1959 European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. It was the beginning of a long work that resulted in four other important agreements and documents. I mention in chronological order: the Convention of 2000, then the so-called 2001 Protocol with the Second Additional Protocol came in the same year, and finally the 2003 EU Association Agreement, on the one hand, and Norway and Iceland on the other. The issue today concerns the latter two conventions and the necessary legislative changes to enable Norway to ratify them. A unanimous Judicial Committee has acceded to the above and present proposals. In this way, this matter should be quite simple both to debate and to deal with. But after the Justice Committee has given its opinion on the matter that the representatives have in their seats today, I am, as rapporteur of the matter, contacted by the Ministry of Justice and made it clear that the Department has a very strong wish that we vote against one of the proposals in the case. The proposal that the government wants us to vote against, i.e. not to vote here tonight, is on page 5 of the vote – I'm doing this to be as precise as I can, President – under III, first column, a little below center: ‘§ 216b, second subparagraph, point (d) is deleted.’; This is by reference to the Criminal Procedures Act. I repeat what is in the setting: ‘§ 216b, second subparagraph, point (d) is deleted.’; This point is that the government, or the department, does not want us – and I repeat it once again – not to cancel. That's the recommendation we got from the ministry after the setting was given. The Ministry's justification that we should not repeal this legal paragraph is that if we lift it, it could – in the context of all the other legislative changes in the case – raise doubts about the police's basis of jurisdiction. I read correctly what is in the e-mail that has also been sent to the members of the committee. It states that this relates to ‘the means of obtaining information on the communication facilities in contact with each other when they have an ongoing communication control’. That's the reason. Thus, there will be uncertainty about the police’s basis of law in an ongoing – the word ‘ongoing’ is underlined – communication control. I am going to go straight to the conclusion before I finish, and say that we on the Right are going to support the last proposal by the government, that is, the recommendation to vote against the government's proposals on that point. I ask that the vote be put up in such a way that the Stortinge will be given the opportunity to vote against the above-mentioned paragraph change. At least the right will vote against the repeal of that paragraph. I would like to encourage the other parties here in the Chamber to clarify their position on this issue. For the meeting management – I guess – it will be of some help, as it has been a long day and we have a lot of things to argue about. I have received signals indicating that there is a broad connection to this. Nevertheless, I ask that the present parties also clarify from the interlocutory whether or not they support the order of the President of the case. Finally, I just want to say that this kind of procedure is – I want to use the word – critical. It is of great importance that, as a legislative assembly, the Storting should have a good decision-making basis, especially in this type of case, which is also concerned with international cooperation. These are complex laws, there are many laws that interfere with each other. In order for us as decision-making bodies to be able to get an overview, we are totally dependent on our decision-making base enabling us to get the necessary overview without having to dig far down in the details. We must have mutual confidence that we will get a case on our table that is well-informed when we are going to deal with it in the national Parliament. I want to say that this has not happened in this case. It has not in any way been with the evil will of the government or of the department, I am absolutely sure of that. I have registered that I am sorry, at least I am very sorry – at least those who have been in contact with me. So this shouldn't repeat itself. However, as the rapporteur-general and on behalf of the Committee, I would like to say that it was not desirable to have this kind of procedure in this major and important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4454	The President will now announce that it will be arranged to vote separately on Section 216b, second paragraph, point (d). The rapporteur's recommendation, therefore, is not to support the unanimous vote. The vote will be held in such a way that it is possible to make the actual views on the matter visible in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4459	The rapporteur has been very thoroughly briefed. There is initially a unanimous vote by the Committee. I just want to comment briefly on the matter and perhaps also clarify a little, especially with regard to the change that the government made in the last few years – get a say – and that applies to § 216 of the Criminal Procedures Act. The rapporteur promoted criticism in a suitable way. Of course, the fact that the government makes a change to a proposition after the decision has been taken by the Enlarged Committee is – we all agree – unfortunate, to say the least. I fully agree with the President-in-Office. Nevertheless, the change that the government has brought to the attention of the Committee is necessary and it is necessary to maintain this provision in the Criminal Procedures Act in the interest of police investigations in the future. If the police are to have access to what kind of communication facilities are in contact with each other, it goes without saying that they have established a check on it as well, and that is how this provision must continue to work. This is important to me, because everyone knows that the Progress Party was particularly negative about the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, and we are still. We have also made proposals in Stortinget to reverse the Data Storage Directive. We simply believe that this is systematic monitoring of the entire population, without a reasonable suspicion that anything illegal has happened or will happen. But at the same time, it is important to stress that the Progress Party recognises that the police need an expanded toolbox to deal with the modern criminals, preferably the organized criminals. That is why we have made a number of proposals in the past, including: in the context of the notification of organised crime and during the treatment of DLD here on the Stortinget. § 216 of the Criminal Procedures Act is central, even if you are an opponent of the DLD. One of the measures proposed by the Progress Party in the past, we considered promoting today too, but as I have a thorough explanation here, we do not see it as necessary. We have also made a proposal to reverse the Data Storage Directive, so that we can take it at that time. But we promoted an alternative to DLD, precisely to lower the threshold for monitoring by reasoned suspicion, and thus a change to Section 216 of the Criminal Procedures Act. We also want more resources for the police to carry out communication control, as these are costly things. In addition, we want more resources for infiltration, testing, etc. Although this proposition became a bit messy, we are now pleased that the error has been corrected, and that the police will have to keep their important tool in the future. I would also like to be allowed to quote briefly from the setting of the DLD, in order to be absolutely sure that I get it with me in this case, as we do not promote any suggestions. This is the quotation from the notes of the Progress Party: ‘More specifically, these members will amend the Criminal Procedures Act § 216a, § 216d and § 216m which allow the surveillance of suspected criminals. In addition, these members will amend Section 17(d) and (e) of the Police Act authorising the access of the PST to preventive surveillance in cases where serious crime planning is suspected.» We could have encouraged these proposals again to strengthen § 216, but we are pleased that it has become as it has been, and therefore I conclude only by being as clear and clear as the case rapporteur: The Progress Party will vote against § 216b, second paragraph, point (d).
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4481	Then we have recorded the explanation of vote of the Progress Party, as a support for the recommendation of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4484	I agree with the rapporteur that it is very unfortunate that such a mistake has been made in the proposal we have received from Stortinget. I also agree with the rapporteur that the purpose here is not to modify the rules on ongoing communication control, which are operated on the basis of today's laws and regulations, i.e. in a legal way. We thank the President-in-Office for his understanding and ability to handle this well, both during the preparations and here in the Chamber. I would just like to say briefly that the Labour Party and the Centre Party will vote in line with what the rapporteur recommends, i.e. vote against the change in one point relating to § 216b, second paragraph, point (d).
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4491	Thanks to the rapporteur for a thorough review of the case and the case that is now being discussed here. As you know, SV voted against the introduction of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. It's solid. I agree with the case rapporteur that when you have to go so far down in the details, the devil can lie there, and the deposit representatives can make a mistake by not getting enough time and good enough evidence to make recommendations to their groups. With the understanding that when the government now asks us to vote as they do, and it does not conflict with SV's starting point, namely that we voted against making the Data Storage Directive part of Norwegian law, SV will support the government's request.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4498	Unfortunately, now there is no Christian People's Party in the Judicial Committee, and I have not been able to participate in the discussion of the proposal. That is why I am particularly grateful that the rapporteur has been clean and has given me good information about what is happening. It's clear that such a change is happening here, it's also good for the parties that are not in the committee to get more information about, so I'm grateful for that. That is why I can also say that the Christian People's Party will follow the recommendation of the case rapporteur, and I am also committed to the comments of the representative Chaudhry in his comments instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4503	Today, the size of the population deals with two issues which have the common aim of facilitating more effective cross-border criminal prosecution. Firstly, a legislative proposal will be considered to facilitate the conclusion by Norway of two international agreements on mutual assistance in criminal matters, one with the EU and a European Council agreement. Secondly, the question of the conclusion of those agreements shall be dealt with. Unfortunately, as the rapporteur has explained, there was an error in the bill, and I am grateful that the committee is correcting it. It's an accident at work of the kind that's not going to happen. These instruments have already been practised in the EU and the Council of Europe for several years and are working well. The agreements are based on and complement the conventions and agreements already concluded by Norway, including: The European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Schengen Convention. The aim of the agreements is to promote closer international cooperation in the fight against crime. Legal cooperation is made simpler and more flexible, for example through simplified rules for the submission of legal applications. The agreements further regulate some forms of legal cooperation that are not previously Conventional, such as: hearings at video and telephone conferences and police cooperation in the form of inter alia: joint investigation team and secret investigation. The EU Convention also has rules on information on electronic communications and information relating to banking transactions. The agreements do not, in my opinion, raise specific questions and have only prompted one comment from the Judicial Committee. I am, of course, pleased that the Storting gives its consent to ratification. The Schengen area of freedom of movement means that crime is also increasingly cross-border. There is therefore a growing need to remove legal and factual obstacles to cross-border investigation and prosecution. International judicial cooperation in the field of criminal law is necessary and it is important that as many countries as possible participate in such cooperation, so that no country is tempted to commit crimes. I am concerned that Norway must also monitor developments in this area, particularly within Europe, and should join new international agreements on criminal law cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4516	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 18 and 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4530	In 2005, the UN adopted a Convention on Nuclear Terrorism. Norway signed the Convention the same year, but we have so far not ratified it. The Convention provides, inter alia, for: the requirement to criminalise certain forms of unlawful use of radioactive material. The Criminal Code of 1902 does not fully comply with the criminalisation obligations. The obligations are implemented in the Penal Code 2005 but, as is well known, this has not come into force – strongly in deficit, which is problematic, but which I shall not say anything more about here. The Committee refers to the consideration of the presentation by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence at the Stockholm meeting on 10 November last year of the attacks on 22 July, stressing that ratification of the Convention and the work on law enforcement, irrespective of the entry into force of the Criminal Code of 2005, should take place quickly, not least after the US authorities have requested progress towards Norway. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the government, with the presentation of this proposal, has met the common objectives of the Storting, the Government and not least of our closest allies. Therefore, on behalf of an overall committee, I refer to the proposal, the proposals and the justification given therein, and recommend the Stortinget to support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4541	I just want to say that this is a very important matter, which we discussed in the committee that was called the 22nd July committee on the Stortinget. It is about Norway being allowed to ratify this convention that we can participate fully in international cooperation against the misuse of this kind of weapon in terrorism. It is very good that we have had such good progress in the matter here at Stortinget, in the Committee and in the Chamber today. I just want to thank the case rapporteur for that. We got the matter relatively close in the summer, but there is a broad consensus that this is important, and that this work cannot wait. – So thank you for your cooperation in getting the matter moving quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4548	This is an important matter, and then it is pleasant and satisfying that Norway also makes the changes to the law that are necessary for the Convention to work properly. I am pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of that. When one first talks about nuclear material, I thought it's right that eventually we make it punishable to have a malicious use of nuclear material. But there's a chain before that, and that chain I'm thinking of spending a few minutes reflecting around. It is such that nuclear material is very dangerous and, if you have a malicious intention, can have very serious consequences for the population. We're talking about the dirty bombs. That is what is today one of the biggest concerns of the security services and the police around the world. Secondly, there are accidents in nuclear reactors. It happened in Japan, it happened to those degrees and in so safe reactors that you could almost never imagine that something could go wrong. 20–25 years ago it happened in the then Soviet Union, and even today we pay the price in Norway for it. I'm very pleased that Japan and Germany have taken the consequences that it can go wrong even in the safest reactors, and that they have shut down their nuclear reactors. I hope that the rest of the world will follow this example, for the more countries that have radioactive nuclear material, the more places it is located, the greater the danger that it may first go wrong, without one want to do so, and it can have major consequences for the population around the area, and then: the more places this exists, the greater the danger that criminals will get hold of it, and it can once again be a major problem for the world's population. We in SV hope that in the short term we can limit nuclear material around the world as much as possible, and in the long term we have a hope and faith that this must be disposed of from the Earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4559	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4573	The matter that Stortinget is now dealing with is actually about ordinary people who experience their worst nightmare. They have made a mistake that was not intended for personal gain, and have to pay dearly for it. These include: concerning the husband and wife of Elin and Arne Myrhold. They are punished by Skatt Mid-Norway because they have made a formal mistake by not submitting a specific form in which rental activities are recorded in addition to ordinary agricultural activities. They are now in danger of going bankrupt, having a claim of 2.8 million. kr from Skatt Mid-Norway. 2.2 million. kr is VAT, which they have recovered in connection with the poultry during the period 2006-2010. The rest, which is then NOK 600 000, is interest and penalty. If the couple had used a voluntary scheme and registered in the VAT register that they rented out the poultry, the claim had not existed today. So the couple should not have earned a single penny on the form slip, but Skatt Mid-Norway says on a general basis that there is no room for discretion. The family company H. Heitmann & Son in Drøbak will for several years get dizzy for a cross General Manager, Peter Heitmann, never led on a form he sent the tax bill in April 2001. The missing cross cost the company more than 11 million. kr. Had the cross been included, the claim had not existed. Heitmann says: I thought I had done everything right, but then there was no cross. That it would cost us 11 million. kr, feels like a big offense. The company was going overboard. These are two examples, but there are far more. That there may be errors in the form under which Norway operates is not strange and should not surprise anyone. But that such mistakes, where you don't even get personal profit, don't earn one penny, should be punished so hard, maybe the few know. So there's no room for discretion today. That's what needs to be changed. That is why I am pleased – first of all – that this representative proposal was promoted by the Right so that the Storting could address the issue. Secondly, I am pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has discussed this and agreed on a further direction. There are two proposals that have been made in the draft representative. The first is a review of the use of penalties for breaches of the rules due to errors in completing the form, where there is no personal gain. Proposal No. 2 that the administration must be able to exercise discretion so that the penalties are proportionate to the seriousness of the breach. I am pleased that the government now announces that during 2012 you will come up with a case where you can follow this up. The government should be very grateful for that. I interpret the response from the Council of State to the Committee very positively, that you are now working quite concretely to follow this up. It is positive that a unanimous judicial committee sees the need for something to be done here. Nevertheless – and unfortunately – this has taken a very long time. That government is now going to follow up, has its background in a NOU, i.e. an investigation, from 2003 — almost ten years ago — where a sample looked at this issue that this representative proposal is about to raise. Well, it's almost ten years since the NOU existed. Now the government says that one thing will come the current year. We welcome that. In the comments on the matter, a unanimous committee also says that it is expected to be in line with the timetable announced by the government. There are many people who have experienced the injustices that I used two examples of getting there. I hope that at least for the future, when you get a final case and get the right decisions, you won't experience this kind of assault from the public towards the common man and woman here in the country. The minority of the Committee, the Party of Advances and the Right, has chosen to present the proposals included in the draft representative. I will take up the two proposals in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4596	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the two suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4599	This is an important discussion, and it's probably a very good suggestion. But we know that the Sanctions Committee presented a NOU, from bot to recovery, which contains some proposals that have to be reviewed in the department. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State wrote: ‘The Ministry of Justice is working on the follow-up to NOU 2003:15, with a view to promoting a proposition during 2012.’ I don't want to go into the substance of this proposal right now, but I want to wait for the proposition from the department, so that we don't get a piece and split treatment of this problem. Now it is the case that the government parties do not reject the proposal either, as we go for a setting where we attach the matter to the protocol. That means that one should come back to the matter in the near future. I expect then that the department will promote a proposition as soon as it does, and preferably during 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4611	The Financial Committee, and certainly the Business Committee, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and representatives of gross domestic product, receive a steady flow of enquiries from people who end up in the form field with different consequences. Some of them are the background to this case, where the Right started a case with a married couple from Sandeid in Rogaland and a case with similar consequences for a married couple in Frosta in Nord-Trøndelag. In line with the signals of the government and the Storting, and with modern agricultural policy, they have invested in co-operation. In order to be able to afford to invest in new operating buildings, the logical thing was to split it up. Since there were more than one, there was a need to regulate the agreement on who would pay, and who would own the operating building. So it became a rental relationship. Then the cooperative farmers, and also the accountant, forgot some crosses that had had disastrous consequences if the tax authorities had not turned around. This proposal has helped to find a solution in these kinds of cases, which both the representative Leirstein and we in the Right have been thinking about. This is also a matter which has gone through the Financial Committee, where it actually belongs in practice, because we have not asked for legislative changes in this matter. We have only asked for a more flexible procedure at the tax authorities. It was actually what led to a change, when the Ministry of Finance provided for increased flexibility in the Tax Directorate. It shows that you can reach a long way without new laws, without new rules, just having a good conversation with the bureaucracy about how to interpret political rules. That is a good example. A unanimous growth has good ambitious goals about simpler business conditions and easier relationships for individuals. There is a legislative framework in which – I illustrate a little today – the proposal has been promoted in the light of fiscal implications, fiscal policies, and members of the Financial Committee. It ends up in the Justice Committee. The case has been in the Ministry of Agriculture, and the matter has been in the Ministry of Industry. If we think about those who are going to deal with these rules when they set up an operational building or another industrial building, there are five different departments working on these kinds of issues: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Local Government, etc. It's getting complicated for the state, it's getting complicated to find the steering signals that the Tax Directorate is going to have. If you believe that this proposal has been promoted in order to ask for changes in the law, that is not true. In the case of VAT on construction, which is quite technical, the Financial Committee, two weeks ago, unanimously agreed on a proposal for a representative from the Progress Party supported by the Government Parties, where the Committee had a very good dialogue with the Ministry, and where it has now requested that all renting of industrial buildings be subject to VAT and thus also to reimbursement. So you lose the ability to cross mistakes, you just make it easier. In total, the matter has been in the Finance Committee, in the Business Committee, the intervention of the Minister of Agriculture and other matters, but this matter has been resolved separately from those problems. In fact, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Finance, to the Minister of Agriculture, and also to the Red-Green parties on the Stortinget, because we have had a positive development. You've seen that if you want to, you can make the Tax Directorate understand politics, if you just talk to them well enough. I think we'll see a good development, especially from 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4628	The applicant's rapporteur has explained quite well the background to this case being raised. There were several cases, but one of them is particularly well known from my point of view at least – the Myrhold family, which was mentioned here, lives in my neighborhood, and I was contacted relatively early when they began to have dialogue with the tax haven. It was completely unreasonable to understand that they were not going to do it the way they did. As a farmer and farmer, the VAT system is registered, and he then assumed that it was unnecessary to do something more about it – there was no cross in a form. So it went two years, and then the tax bill comes with a letter and says that he has a new state of 2.8 million. NOK and must pay it in relatively immediately. Then he had to go to the acquisition of a lawyer and have a dialogue with the tax administration, where – when you look at the letters that were sent, I was given the opportunity to read them – the accusations that the tax administration made were quite serious. It was rather sad to see that through the tax system, the state can treat individuals in Norway in this way. It's not strange, as Myrhold himself said to me, that he went in a doze all summer and almost got nothing done. If he were to pay almost $3 million. kr, he was bankrupt immediately. The case was subsequently put to the attention of the Minister of Finance in the Business of today – over several entries there – and more contact directly with the Minister of Finance. I even contacted the Minister of Agriculture, who tried as much as he could, but did not get through. Finally, the Minister of Finance got on the track and said that this was not good. He informed the Myrhold family that they should not have to pay the amount. However, what is so frightening is that the state uses such power against individuals when they have done nothing intentionally wrong, and have done nothing that has done any harm to the state. It's simply a paragraphry, and I think that's very sad. We are pleased that they have taken care of the matter, and that there will be an investigation, but we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4641	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4656	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. My document says that the President-in-Office should have the floor, but she is not on the list of speakers. Of course, if the rapporteur wishes to speak, she will have to do so first. Then we come back to the rest of the list – the first speaker is the representative of Jenny Klinge, who is the rapporteur on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4667	It's like a good user to say when I run past where I'm going to be, and that's how to govern the country. If there's a distance, there's a distance. [[Laughter]] Typing is a theme that involves many people. The starting point for this debate is a proposal from the representative to ban begging. Different parties have different opinions about whether or not to ban begging. The majority of the Judicial Committee is not in favour of supporting the proposal to ban begging now, and the recommendation of the Committee is that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the minutes. The so-called so-called "loose gang" was lifted by a mass mass in 2005, so from 1 July 2006 it was no longer illegal to beg. The proposers themselves will do well for the background, so that the beggars will be banned again. I want to do something for the Committee to gather behind in common comments, as the case-speaker, before I say anything about the Centre Party's point of view. The Committee is concerned that the main efforts to prevent poverty and beggars domestically and in other countries must be social measures and not criminal policy instruments. There must be a combination of action in Norway and international action where different actors work together to give people different ways of living than begging. The Committee points out that Norway must continue to finance targeted actions also internationally through e.g.: EEA funds. Even if we stand together to vote against the proposals from the Progress Party and the Right, the three government parties have a somewhat different approach to the issue of begging. That's why we want to keep doing what we're doing. The number of foreign beggars has increased dramatically since the ban on begging was lifted. A fine beggar on the street, in the cottages and on the doors of people. This also creates a pressure on municipalities to limit or prevent unpleasant begging. In letters from the Minister of Justice, it appears that the Department is currently working out various solutions that can help to mitigate the unfortunate aspects of begging. Among other things, state councils write that for example. must be evaluated «if there should be an opportunity to regulate where in a municipality this activity may take place, possibly also at what times». The center party has confirmed that we want to reintroduce the ban on begging. Even though the government party, which is called, is gathered not to go in for minority proposals, I naturally find it appropriate to do so in the background of our national meeting decision. There are several factors that make the question of whether or not to ban begging relevant to further discussion. Some beggars may be associated with organised crime and trafficking in human beings. There's something we want to prevent. When the Judicial Committee was on a committee mission in Romania a few years ago, the Nordic customs liaison pointed out that backers can also be family and relatives. It's hard to define human trafficking, but one might wonder if it's so much better that a youth is forced to beg because his uncle organizes begging, and that everyone in the family has to contribute, than if it's a stranger who organizes this begging. There are young people who do not receive education because parents want them to join and beg, even when there are real alternatives, for example. through EEA-funded projects where the schooling is part of the supply. There are also some paradoxes about begging. The Labour Environment Act says that people should have decent working conditions and a minimum wage, and we are rightfully fighting social dumping of foreign workers. We don't accept that people spend $80 an hour here on land, even though this is more obvious for them than spending $80 a month in the home country. But we accept that people tend to live by sitting on the street in ten minus degrees for one hundred times a day. This is about young people, adults and older people, as well as young people at times. If we were to let begging be legal because it's better than nothing for these people to beg, we might think that it's better for foreign workers to work here for 80 kroner than for almost nothing in the home country. The police in Hordaland have done a phenomenal job against human trafficking, and they have uncovered a serious case in which family members force young people to beg and steal, and where also sexual abuse was part of the complex. No matter whether we get a general ban on begging or not, it's quite possible for the police to make an effort to discover trafficking in human beings where begging is part of the picture. It's already criminal to organise begging and force others to beg. But the police in Hordaland point out that they primarily want a general ban on begging. There are, as I said, no pluralities in the police now to reintroduce the ban on begging, and this is very important, all the time when the Council of State stresses the need to consider measures that can limit the scope of begging. Among other things, I think it is important to consider how the municipalities themselves can regulate begging.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4696	I'm glad that there's an overall committee that assumes that beggars are people who are in a vulnerable situation and need help. So the main question is, how can we best help? In the case of beggars who are addicted to drugs or have other health or social problems, we have treatment services and welfare schemes at home, which are partly an answer to the question of how we can help, and which are measures we want to do more with. In the case of foreign beggars who have come from Romania and Bulgaria in particular since these countries joined the EEA and who are now dominant among the beggars in our cities, the answers to how best to help are more demanding. Here too, the entire Committee agrees that they must be helped primarily in the home country; that is where we need to put in place social policy instruments, and it should be in a combination of national measures and international cooperation where humanitarian and religious organisations also contribute. Norway provides considerable funding for this work, about 1.2 B.C.E. kr per year, to help with, among others. the welfare building in Romania. The EU also invests considerable resources in the construction of a European welfare country there. There are also non-governmental organisations, such as the Saviour Army in Norway, working to launch projects to help in the home country. It's important that this work is systematized and targeted at those who need the most help in their home country, especially the space people, and that we manage to see that here there will be results, here there will be an effort that they can make use of. When this effort is to be built up in the home Member State, it is important that they are there and are able to receive the offers. It is necessary to break the tradition when generation after generation of disadvantaged journeys of farms as beggars, and when there are different forms of pressure to follow up this way of life. It does not necessarily have to be about criminal backers and beggar barons who organize these bus loads with beggars to rich countries like Norway, but it may be about a combination of poverty, need, tradition and internal pressure that drive many out on travel as beggars. So, both in the home country and here in the country, a major effort should be made to convince more people to bet on solutions other than begging. A good example is People are People, who today have launched 30 jobs for beggars from the Space people, where they enter into employment agreements and sell a new magazine or magazine on the streets of Oslo. When former beggars in this way try to find other ways out, it is important that they succeed, so I hope many will buy the new magazines when they get on the street in the days to come. There is also reason to hope that more beggars will be inspired by the opportunity to try out the labour market in Norway, which the Stortinget provided better for last Thursday, when Romania and Bulgaria were normally included in the European labour market. We need labour in this country, and Poles and other groups from Eastern Europe, who have also been disadvantaged, have shown that it is useful to get on the labour market through different approaches. In order to limit begging and get it into tidy forms, municipalities have been given the opportunity to introduce reporting obligations for money collection, including begging, i.e. the need to notify and legitimise in advance in order to beg and collect money. When this was introduced in Bergen and followed by a separate police group, two thirds of the beggars disappeared there. In Oslo, this has not yet been tried because of formal problems with the wording to be included in the police regulations. It is important that the Department of Police Directorate and the Municipality of Oslo sit down and get this solved now. This will allow you to get a step further and to easily separate those who are here for honest purposes and have no problems in contacting the police and identifying themselves, from others. With regard to other measures to reduce begging, we are pleased that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee says: ‘However, the situation of the day suggests that it is necessary to consider measures that may limit the scope of the begging. I believe that, among other things, it is necessary to consider whether there should be an opportunity to regulate where in a municipality this activity can take place, possibly at what times. The Ministry of Justice is therefore currently investigating various solutions that can help to mitigate the unfortunate aspects of beggaring.’ We refer to the response from the Council of State, which is also reflected in the vote, and we would like to support it in order for the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4720	It should not be necessary to sit with a cup on Karl Johan, whether you are a Norwegian drug addict, or whether you are a foreign beggar. We're really dividing beggars into three groups. One group is the Norwegian addicts. We believe it is important to be able to provide an offer – detoxification sites when it is needed, when the motivation is on top, by volunteers: the Salvation Army, the Church's City Mission, the Blue Cross, etc. It is also linked to the proposal made by the Progress Party in the matter, which is about to give VAT refund. Then there is the other group, foreign beggars who are not criminals, who do not intend to commit crime, but who are actually in need – there are children on tour, but there are also children who are here legitimate because it is lawful to beg. These children are then abused – in the correct sense of the word – legally. That's one of the reasons why the Progress Party wants to have a ban on begging. They have to get targeted help in their home country. The representative of Bohemian society was in exactly what must happen in Romania and not least in Moldova in terms of attitudes towards Gypsies, Roma, in terms of living capacity, in terms of building sanitary facilities, and in terms of the possibility of schooling for the children living there. Then we must support the volunteers. We need to focus much more on EEA funds, which the representative of Bohemia was also in. That's exactly where we agree. So it's the third group: foreign beggars that are part of an organized criminal network. There we must have an effort both nationally and in cooperation with other countries. We see that as long as it is lawful to beg in Norway, this is an entrance portal for those who are on trial to commit crime — including drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, theft/profit crime, prostitution, etc. Norway is currently pursuing a policy to enable this group to come and commit crime. So we went to the Oslo Workers' Party's Annual Meeting, on which there has been a debate. It's the way to understand that a person wants to divide the different parts of the city here in Oslo, for example. so that one part of the city can introduce a ban, while the other part of the city does not need it. It'll be nonsense and clothes for me. First, we're going to use police resources to do that, and we'll almost reproduce beggars sitting in one part of the city, where they're not allowed to be, over to another part of the city. But not least, we will also have groups of people who are almost on a kind of tour around the country – an eternal tour in search of money. The starting point must not be that one comes here to the country, but that one may also succeed in his own country. I'm sure everyone in the committee will remember when we were in Canada. I have brought with me the brochure that was made by the business community, along with political organizations and volunteering. This brochure was distributed, and it said, "Say no to begging." Say yes to give. I really feel it expresses what many of us in the committee think, that it is better to give to the organisations working at street level, whether it is in the home country or here in Norway. If the foreigners are begging us, there's something wrong with the social network in the countries they come from. In fact, it is in many countries. How, then, are we going to solve this problem? Strategies do not solve the problem, therefore long-term solutions are required. For some cultures, begging is linked to the way people live. You can live as nomads in the countries and cultures where there is a historical and geographical prerequisite for this, but not in industrialised and money-based societies like ours. Others are referred to begging because there are no other alternatives if the economic basis fails. Such problems need to be solved internationally. The poverty problem is international and needs to be addressed through bilateral and multilateral cooperation, where both nations and religious and humanitarian organisations contribute. Then I'll take up the suggestions, both what we have in common with the Right, and what we're alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4741	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4744	In many ways, the position and debate here reflect as far as possible the good outcome of the debate at the Høre national meeting, namely that the question of how to combat trafficking in human beings, poverty and social problems does not have simple answers. Parts of the public debate on what the Right adopted, and the premise for our subsequent decision, have been marked by a bit of each. It seems that some have had ingrained prejudices against the Right and almost on the Autopilot set up a caricered image of us as middle-aged, rich, best-bourgeois people who have slipped around on a shrimp butterbread half of their life, and do not tolerate diversity, romans or rusks on the ground. They should really take a look in the mirror at themselves and their prejudices and the ability to discuss matters. In fact, to discuss matters, I think that all parties in the Justice Committee do, when you read the comments in their entirety, even though we end up at – for the time being at least – slightly different conclusions. But it seems to me that the whole Storting is concerned on behalf of the individuals who are sold as slaves for various purposes, also for begging. There are no quick solutions to any of the issues raised by human trafficking, begging and crime. For example, when a NOVA researcher: find that the beggars are poor people in a difficult life situation, it does not come as a bomb. What is, on the other hand, a somewhat sad bomb is that the debate in public space has almost ignored the trends reported by the police in Norway, and not least in Sweden and internationally, as regards the development and combination of begging, trafficking and other crime, organised or unorganized. Had we had a national reporter on trafficking in Norway, as Right-wing wants, we might also have had a better overview now. Under strong doubt, the undersigned and the Right as a party have come to the conclusion that we will be able to reintroduce a legal basis as an instrument, which can limit parts of the beggar business we have seen particularly in Oslo, but also throughout the country. It must be allowed to say that it is allowed to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, focus on what people feel at the body of problems associated with this, while at the same time we are busy helping people who are sold as slaves or in a difficult situation of life. When you hear a few people sneezing about people's concerns about evolution, I wonder how close these themselves are to the reality that people describe. My impression is that out there among people there are quite a lot more than the often unfair caricatured Frogners who want a new policy. In a beeing it can be said that many Frogner women often have a well-fledged exterior, but they very often have a well-fledged inner also, with great consideration for other people. Whether it's Frogner's or other wives, gentlemen or young people, I think you should take their concerns seriously, rather than reject them. For the vast majority of people, regardless of their position on this issue, know and believe that poverty is best addressed by social policies that function both nationally and internationally. A prohibition may be designed and, not least, enforced in different ways. Focusing on the actual organisation of beggaring will, for example: be to ensure that we practice some kind of pedigree paragraph in the beggar sector, which may help prevent the most problematic parts of our business. In conclusion, I have to say that sometimes I think that the pushing of credit cards, power subscriptions, training cards or Omega 3 is so annoying – much more annoying is it – than seeing someone sitting on the ground. It is not the irritation to see anyone sitting there who is the starting point for neither the Progress Party, the Right or the Center Party in this debate. It's about us wanting to use an instrument, as a ban will be, to help some of the people who are being trafficked. But at the same time, the Right also recognizes that it solves nothing in itself. We don't solve social problems through a ban, but we might be able to prevent parts of the grotesque business that traffickers run with. Therefore, the Right is willing to try to reintroduce a ban, which can be designed in several ways, but it must be seen in the context of all the instruments by which all batches in this room are to operate, in the form of a well-functioning welfare country and support to other countries internationally. The right also awaits the measures of the Council of State to address the challenges facing beggars in Norway. In conclusion, the example of Michaelsen's representative is very good, because it turned out that the number of beggars was actually reduced. It shows that we can give money to help people with a good conscience, and not just buy us a good conscience by putting money in the cup, so the whole others are going to solve the problems for those sitting there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4761	Many countries in Europe are affected by the financial crisis, a consequence of the shady pages of capitalism, liberal social solutions, greed and a lack of economic governance. Millions of people have their lives turned their heads around. People have gone from good and warm homes to right on the street – from well paid and secure jobs to reduced pay or unemployment with very little or no social security. Parents are looking for food for their children in bins. When society is hit by such economic fluctuations, it always goes from bad to worse for those who have little from before. It is not particularly alarming to see that poor, needy people from Europe, in the legal sense of the EEA regions, come to rich Norway. People in distress come your work and/or food is. It's a historical truth. I would say that the parties that are concerned with EU and EEA trailers do not want to see and accept this, are simply embarrassing and embarrassing – eye-catching. Worse, when these parties want to ban the symptoms of a social disease and then believe that the disease itself – poverty – is gone. I'm glad there's a Torbjørn Røe Isaacen in the Right. He said it so wisely: it is naive to believe that the need for begging disappears if it is banned. The right side shows their true face here: they want capital and labour, human resources from the EEA, but the shadow side of this capitalist project – poverty – they don't want to see. The renovation of our streets is going to be done. Prohibiting begging in Norway is a rather eye-catching and far-reaching measure. Here, there are many embedded contradictions in the proposal. A ban on begging will not only affect the foreigners who beg, but also our own poor will be affected, for example. drug abusers. Then they have only one way out: to commit crime. Isn't that what the right-hand side means to prevent by begging ban? With this proposal, the Right Party and the Advance Party will, in addition, prevent e.g., as I understand, the Salvation Army from collecting money. I see no fundamental difference between begging for their own children's food and begging to feed others' children. Has the Right Party and the Advance Party thought about it? The Right Party and the Advance Party write in their comments: ‘These members’s main objective with a ban is to strike backers who organise begging, as part of organised trafficking in human beings and other crimes.’ Well, it's all criminal in today's law to trick, threaten or force someone to commit criminal acts, even legal acts. The only people who will be hit by a beg ban are poor people who must go on accord with their dignity and must beg. I still hear stories about beggars who behave threateningly aggressively. Well, let me first say that there's a behavior that's punishable. The police have every right today to charge this. That being said, I live in Oslo and travel in the streets of Oslo every day. I travel around many cities and in smaller places in Norway. It's important for me to tell you that I've never experienced threatening or aggressive beggars. I can't deny that others have experienced it, but that's not the whole story. SV's solution is that we need to prevent poverty, and we need to give people the opportunity to get out of poverty when, unfortunately, they are first hit by it. Then are cheap and accessible kindergartens, good and free school, open and inclusive labour market, a fair tax system, public and robust health care and equality at all levels the solution. This is true in Norway, and it is true abroad. This is socialism in practice, and it works best.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4788	Fortunately, most people do very well in Norway. Still, life is playing out differently for us. Some people don't see any other way out than asking for money in the street. For others, it's not a voluntary choice, but they're unfortunately put on the street by backers who trade in human beings. Tigging can be a source of intoxication, poverty, trafficking in human beings, organised crime or other major challenges. No matter what the reason why they have to beg, this is about the individual human being who is in a difficult situation, and who needs a helping hand. These challenges need to be addressed in ways other than prohibition – it will not help those who are exposed to them. The Christian People's Party will therefore not support the proposal that is here today. Although I disagree with the proposal, I am nevertheless pleased that the fight against organised crime and trafficking in human beings is being put on the agenda. Combating trafficking in human beings is about the fight for freedom, independence, equality and human dignity. In that case, criminalisation of people is not in the way of going – in that fight, we need other means than what is proposed here. What is needed is increased competence in this area and enhanced international cooperation at both national and organisational level. As an example, the Christian People's Party recently promoted a proposal to introduce an anti-slavery day in order to raise awareness of this important issue both by government and by individual citizens. This proposal was accompanied by the protocol of a unanimous Judicial Committee, which argued that by focusing on this serious issue one day, it would remove the focus from the daily work on combating trafficking in human beings, which I find very strange. The introduction of 1 May does not exactly indicate that employees’ rights have deteriorated due to that day, rather on the contrary. In Bergen, there is now a widespread criminal case against a number of people of Romanian origin who are accused of trafficking in human beings after having brutally exploited several girls. The girls have, among other things: have been subjected to serious misconduct, including beggaring. Some of the measures the police have taken in cities like Bergen and Kristiansand are the imposition of mandatory registration and ID cards for beggars. In this way, they have been given a good overview of people in different settings, such as: has led to the appearance of this major case. This, I think, is a very good step, which several cities should take. A ban will make those who are at risk of trafficking even more invisible to the police, which will work completely against their purpose. In addition, this case shows that it is not the beggars who are the problem, they are the victims, and it would therefore be absurd to make them criminals. Divorce includes major social problems which, in my opinion, should be combated by social policy instruments other than prohibition and criminalisation. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has for a long time been concerned with various poverty measures. We've allocated extra money to the use of drugs and psychiatry in our alternative budgets. In addition, the various suggestions that have been linked to getting more people out of work are an important way to go. Finally, I would like to link a comment to a group of people who are often associated with this topic. The Rome people are a very stigmatized group. A study conducted by NOVA found that Gypsies coming to Norway from Romania and Bulgaria are mainly poor families seeking better living conditions for their families. Crime of begging won't get them out of the distress they're in. Tigging itself is not the problem, but if the beggars become aggressive and disturb public order, this must of course be tackled – in line with other crimes. Here it is important that the police have the tools needed. However, setting a general ban is not the way to go – there are entirely other measures that are correct and necessary. That is why the Christian People's Party is voting against the proposals in connection with this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4809	Just briefly – almost a explanation of vote: I agree that begging is a challenge. In particular, it is a challenge for those who see need to beg, but the Left believes that the solution is not a ban. Divorce must be met with social instruments, not with renovation policies. There are already legal barriers to combating aggressive and intrusive behaviour in the public space. The left wants to strengthen the police's ability to enforce this provision, instead of banning people in need of asking their fellow human beings for a helping hand. There has been an increase in the number of beggars in recent years, not just in Oslo. The causes of beggaring are many and complex, both in Norway and in other countries. In a Europe affected by economic crisis and high unemployment, it should not come as a big surprise that we will also mark the problems of the continent directly and indirectly, which many people have encountered. The political environment in Norway has become significantly more critical to begging after foreign beggars have come to the country, unlike the situation in 2005, when the prosecuting paragraph of the Penal Code and the date of the ban on begging were lifted. The left considers the only humane and liberal solution to the beggaring challenges is to tackle it as a social problem and solve it with social instruments. Just as we now see that the ban on prostitution has run the business underground, we fear that a total or partial ban on begging will lead today's beggars to move quickly to criminal acts to support themselves. The problem will not disappear – it will become stronger. The left will therefore vote by the majority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4822	Initially, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has expressed its agreement on a number of key issues relating to begging. It is established that beggars are people who need help, and that those who beg in our streets today are a composite group. Furthermore, it is emphasised that begging in Norway should not be a solution for poor people, regardless of nationality. It is gratifying that the Committee expresses the common view that Norway must contribute to remedying poverty and distress, which are the underlying causes of beggaring. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right express that a primary objective of a ban must be to hit the backers who organise the beggar as part of human trafficking and other crime. Of course, such crime is unacceptable, and not least when it is linked to individuals in a vulnerable situation, for example: persons who bully beggars. In my opinion, the vast majority of the foreign citizens who beg are part of an activity that is organised in several ways. Some contribute to the transport of persons to Norway and some decide on how a group is to engage in begging. However, today we have no basis for saying that it is likely that the typical beggar is a victim of human trafficking or other coercion. Well so often it's equally likely that the beggars are part of family groups with complex power relationships. The field is still limited in scope. Information from some relief organisations suggests that beggars from the space population are not victims of trafficking in human beings, although they do not rule out trafficking in human beings. Others have received information that trafficking in human beings occurs in these environments. Our starting point must be that as a society we should tolerate being confronted with begging. But where does the boundary go? The discomfort that individual citizens have to feel in the face of disabled and poor people cannot simply provide the basis for a ban. To the extent that begging is carried out in a way that is illegal, typically by the beggar persecuting or threatening passersby, the police need to develop strategies to deal with the situation. Good police work is an important key to solving this problem. There is a limit on the extent to which beggaring may have. Tigging cannot make itself a dominant feature of the cityscape. Just as there is a need to limit and regulate street sales, solutions are envisaged for individual municipalities to introduce regulatory measures against begging. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is currently investigating this matter, and the aim is to develop different solutions that can help to mitigate the scale of begging. We're going to get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4838	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4841	To the right, this is an important issue that concerns how to combat crime and trafficking, although not everyone – perhaps not even the large minority – is trafficked. But regardless of the issue of prohibition, the Right has raised a question this weekend whether we should not have a separate national rapporteur who can report on the situation in the field of human trafficking. The reason why we're doing that is that trafficking debates are very ad hoc and especially interested. The size is getting little involved. We don't have our own reports for treatment. In addition, the organisations working in the field are very fragmented, and I am not always sure if they dare to criticize and are clear enough, because they depend on money from the same departments when they are going to apply for it. We therefore need a national independent reporter in the field of trafficking. Is the Council of State open to considering it, and when can the Council of State give a positive answer as to whether anything like this can be established?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4850	This is a system that, according to the conditions, is little known here at home. For my part, I have said that more information is needed, but at this point it would be wrong to rule out that such a system might have something to do with it. What has been important about the article here today is to illustrate the dilemmas we face, and that it is necessary that we discuss in a thorough manner what rules and limits can be useful to ensure that we do not end up making a difference between groups of beggars, and give the impression that there is a crime associated with begging that is not really anchored.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4857	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice takes the position she is taking in the matter, and I think it is important to work actively to find other means of solving the social challenges associated with begging. It is – as we have been in the debate – a common desire to combat both the crime of begging and, in particular, to take the backers, even when it comes to trafficking in human beings. This has good experience, including: from Bergen and Kristiansand, to which I referred in my post. I would also like to refer to Mr Bøhler's speech, which is linked to the problem in Oslo, and would like to ask the Minister of Justice: Does the Minister of Justice think that the police have the means they need, and that the statutes are good enough – in the sense that you can take the aggressive begging, which obviously should not take place, and for example. establish an ID card scheme to register the beggars and obtain an overview, thus facilitating the fight against the crime behind them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4866	These are very complex issues, and then it is often, unfortunately, that simple solutions do not exist. With regard to the question of the statutes, it is my impression that the police regulations in different municipalities have somewhat different content. There is a problem that you can assess – not least here in the city. Of course, it is also a matter of priority, how to prioritize police resources, in the light of the overall challenges that exist. The cooperation with the police here in Oslo is good, and my hope is that we will be able to resolve these questions relating to the statutes over not too long. I think it is important, also for the sake of the general order, that we take good care of these issues, but that we also take the time necessary to discuss sensible solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4877	There have been a few cases where young girls have been trafficked to Norway, and the police have taken them for nasking and apprehended them in public places in different contexts. Then people at the police station showed up and picked up these kids by pretending to be family members. There has been no control at the individual police station as to whether it was really a family member who picked up these children. This happened repeatedly and is particularly related to the case from Bergen, which we all know about. What action has the Council of State taken, or will she take, to prevent these young girls — especially young girls who are exposed to this — from being handed over to their attackers and the persons who direct them into the nearest sex sale and trafficking, as in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4884	The representative Michaelsen points out how complex some of these issues may be, and how important it is, of course, to address serious crime, for example. related to trafficking in human beings, in a good manner. I feel that we were well treated to the announcement of organized crime in Stortinget, and that there is broad support for the priorities there. Good police work is central, of course through resources, methods and efforts. The measures related to assisting girls who have been exploited in trafficking in human beings are also important. In this area, both through the ROSA project and other measures, we have made it possible and easier for women to come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4891	I hear the Council of State says that we need to take time to discuss these complex challenges and problems. For me, it means a long time discussion, without us doing anything. It might have been interesting to hear what the Council's recommendations today are to many municipalities and to the police on priorities of resources, and what individual municipalities have in terms of drawing up their own statutes to combat the kind of development that we are witnessing. Is it so that the Council of State now merely stands and sees that the municipalities facilitate the arrival of several beggars, by building facilities, sanitary facilities, dwellings, temporary tent parks, etc.? That is what is happening while the government is discussing the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4896	The way Sandberg's representative makes the situation is, of course, and fortunately not. Fighting crime is a very central task for the police, and when we see how the police in different cities have addressed this problem, and see what results, for example. The police in Bergen and also other cities have achieved in this area, I see it may be true that the police here in Oslo are looking into whether there is any of the efforts that have been made in other cities, which can also benefit here. It is not unusual to contribute to the exchange of experiences within the police. In addition, it is necessary to find a solution for the discussion of the police regulations. These include: related to what I have said, that the discussion is going on, and we will try to bring it to an end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4903	Some of the debate has focused on stigmatising the individual beggar. In my post, I launched a thought that you can actually ban the very organisation of begging, not exploitation, but organizing beggar activities. Then there'll be some kind of hallucinogenic paragraph -- after the pattern of it. Is there a possibility that the Council of State might consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4908	When I have said that we will consider the different options related to how to get this problem more alive, it is too early to go into concrete terms about what the result will be. It's central to looking at what I've been dealing with, whether we have the right provisions of the police regulations. It is also important to use existing regulation on disorder. If there are other types of bans that may be applicable in addition to organised crime, we will get back to them, but at this point I am not prepared to conclude with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4914	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4919	Poverty is difficult, sometimes it smells. It doesn't look very clean. The very few think it's time to meet beggars. Therefore, they are not a popular group either. For me, it becomes a matter of conscience. Criminalising the right to ask for help in a society will not only harm those who have it the most, but I think it will also help to change our human vision. For social policy it was a victory when the ban was lifted in 2005. I'm kind of startled when there's a lot of things that are being choked into the same debate. It's drawn a picture of a group of people where it thrives, not just by begging, but by organized crime, prostitution, stealing, and what might be. I believe that the way to conduct the debate is to build a greater distance between them and us. The easiest consequence you can imagine, if we were to go to the step of banning begging, would be that we would see a bloom of crime, because for many of the poorest, begging is an alternative to crime when you have nothing else to live on. Then the way is open to more involuntary prostitution, to more profit-criminalism — a spiral that in turn causes people to get more apart. I think it's funny that the Right Party and the Advance Party are using this concrete proposal to give the impression that you want to be of help to the people who are hurting. The only practical consequence of such a ban will be that it affects those who have the most weight. There's a difference between cooperation and being organized, and I think maybe some speakers from the Right should have been more clear, but if there's no requirement for exploitation when we look at organized crime, then unfortunately it's quite different from those we want to help. I am a warm supporter of combating poverty, but not of combating poor people, and this proposal will only help to make things harder for those who are the most heavy. Then I am pleased that so many in the debate have pointed out how else we can help – that the main approach is social instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4932	A ban on begging, which is also supported by the Right, does not in any way solve the fundamental problem of begging. But the begging itself does not solve the beggar's problem either. There's a lot of research that shows. So, of course, as has been pointed out in several of the speeches, not all beggars are criminals or part of organized crime. This is a complex question, and there are no simple answers, as some of the previous articles try to give the impression. The most effective measures to combat poverty, and therefore begging, are social policy, and not justice policy; it is very clear to the Right. In addition, we need to ensure that in the case of the foreign tigers – and we have a pretty good overview of where most of them come from – we should be clearer and better at providing assistance to their respective countries of origin. The reason I took the floor late one night is that the representative Chaudhry, through his intervention, is helping to raise the clichés of debate in the Stortinget. I find that sad in such an important matter as this. The representative points out that the crisis in Europe is due to capitalism. Then there is reason to remind the representative that, in combination with the market economy, capitalism has brought more people out of poverty than the socialism that the representative Chaudhry has ever done. There is also reason to recall that the SV tried in 2005 to adopt the decision to terminate the beggar. You saw how it went, and I guess the representative remembers it with a bitter taste in his mouth. There is also reason to point out that the number of drug users who are now in line for drug withdrawal treatment has increased with this government and has not been reduced. There are questions that we also need to address in a social policy perspective, and begging is part of this. Then, as the representative Chaudhry does, it is not useful to hide behind the good intentions – it does not solve any problems – when you are unable to address the background of the problem, and dare to enter that landscape and debate the matter effectively and politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4943	It is correctly observed by the representative of Werp that it is late in the evening. We are now on case No. 22 of 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4946	There's someone who thinks it's okay that poor people stand by their hands, while you'll forbid them to sit with the cup. Right-wing politician, and later Prime Minister, Jan P. Syse, wrote in the evening post in 1973 about beggars: ‘Compulsory work should be an excellent therapy. If we are to ensure progress, we must remove in time what we can call the sand in the machinery." Those who didn't have anything to contribute to society were to be stowed away. Poor and beggars were seen as people who represented an economic, moral and orderly problem for society. So that's what Jan P. Syse said. At the same time, it was actually the Right that proposed in 2005 to repeal the Law on Disposal. So today, the right is called for to introduce the lien law – the element that says ‘no begging’, but that allows, if necessary, to rush into public places. It certainly shows the division that is in the Right, between the Liberal Right, which presents personal freedom, and that you cannot ban everything you do not like, versus the class position, which says ‘take the poorest as hard as possible’. Now it's the last group that has a majority in the right. Let's say it's illegal to do human trafficking. Stealing is illegal. It is illegal to sell drugs. Then there is a picture that the beggars are people who steal and sell drugs, and therefore begging must be criminalised. It's a logic that in that case you should go even further, namely, to put them away just because they exist. Rather, there is reason to believe that we are getting more crime if the option begging is banned. It is not nice to see people beg, but begging is primarily a symptom of social distress, in Norway or in the Europe of which we are part. Measures must be taken to stop the distress, not to eliminate the symptom. There are myths spread about organized begging. So, except that we have a law order that targets both aggressive and organized begging, there is no basis for saying that there is organized begging we see. We see families that help each other. They take more care of each other than we see in the Norwegian drug settings. But it's not organized begging with the backers. And the reason is pretty simple: there's not enough money in it. Average beggar earnings in Norway are well below average earnings in Romania. The history of the backers is fiction derived from Eastern European racist mythology. The positive thing today is that as we discuss here in the Chamber, the contract is signed with Romanian spacemen outside of here about the sale of the Gathema gasine with the good name "People are People" – for that is what they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4968	In the previous speech, I would like to point out that the representative of Aegean claimed that the expertise rejected at least as one of the reasons why people are begging, namely that it can simply compete with general work in the countries from which they come. Thus, the situation description will not be that these are the poorest of the poor, but that for some there may be an informal way of working, which has actually also been presented in the NOVA report. So at that point, I think the NOVA report is interesting. A comprehensive topic in the debate has been whether these are individuals who organise themselves in smaller units, which is thus a harmless phenomenon. I will be allowed to draw the attention of the Grand Duchy to the European Commission's website, where the European Commissioner for Social Affairs, Cecilia Malmström from our neighbouring country, has written the following: «In my area, it is a growing problem that Roma women and children become victims of trafficking. Both for sexual purposes and are forced to beg in the streets. Europol has increased its efforts to combat the criminal gangs behind this terrifying trade, and in a short time I will present an action plan to combat trafficking in the EU.’ I wish we had a Minister of Justice who was similarly offensive, and who, on the basis of international contacts, was able to inform himself more in this field. I'm going to agree that the picture is broken, that it can be complex, and that there may be several reasons why people want to come to Norway to beg in our places and in our streets. But at least I think that when you call for important political positions, you should be in the forefront of development and get the knowledge where it exists. So if you listen with kindness to the Minister of Justice, she says that there is a limit to how much a city center can be affected by begging, but that you obviously haven't got there yet. Some of us think we've got there, also because we know it's behind this -- it doesn't apply to 100 pst. – many are enough as part of this international activity are actually victims of other crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4984	I felt like Sarkozy here, compared to the previous speeches. But if I were to go to the level of the representative of Egeland, I would probably come with some quotes from Brezhnev or Honecker. I'm not going to do that. I honestly think that you can save yourself the way you argue. Obviously, the representative Chaudhry has not listened as much to any reason as the Right Party, the Advance Party, or his own coalition party, the Center Party has come here today. In fact, he is in a government with a party that wants exactly the same as the Right Party and the Advance Party, that is, a ban, based on, among other things. wish to combat trafficking in human beings. It has to be that it's impossible for the Right to say anything that anyone else would agree with, because when we say that, our intention is never what we're saying. We just think of intentions, think of measures, but we really mean something else. It was about the level of Chaudhry's posts, as it used to be. With regard to the poverty that the representative Chaudhry believes is the result of capitalism in the countries concerned, the problem in some of those countries is that there is far too little capitalism, far too little functioning markets, too little democracy, too little of what makes Norway work, and that those countries do not work. To the representatives of Egeland and Forsberg: this is not the way vision, insemination and find-on-arguments that have no connection, because the links we point to in the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Right are actually exactly the same contexts and the same sources that some people used when they wanted to impose the sex buy-in ban. I stand here with a report from Europol. I expect that it's not just insinuation and find-on-arguments, but actually quite well-founded arguments that show that there is a clear trend that begging is part of the overall picture, and that those who are beggars – not all, but it's true – can also commit others, partly gross, crime to pay back the money they owe because they were driven to a country. I have seen myself twice in one of the streets here that there is a beggar sitting outside and watching when you don't come along, and then giving a message via a mobile phone to those who are inside a room. I also know that there are beggars who are used as a checkpoint to check out when people, for example. Older people, are at home alone in their apartment. I guess I think that, in addition to discussing what is our main purpose, we should look at the reality that some people with whom Akhtar Chaudhry is obviously not so much with, experience, that it's a big challenge that some – not all, but some – commit crime because they have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e4995	There are many good and reflected articles in this matter. I think that supporters of the proposal under consideration have acted in a neat, reflective and objective manner. Some of those who are opposed to the proposal have also dealt with the realities, but then unfortunately we have representatives moving far beyond what is at stake. Then I think the Stortinget understands that I am addressing the representative of Egeland, who has not understood any of the things that are going on. He simply shows that he has no competence in what he is doing in the rest of Europe with regard to the challenge we are facing, and he is almost harassing poachers to have intentions to advance the case to the people who are exposed to organized crime and trafficking in human beings in a good way. I still have the good news to hear what instruments the strongest critics of banning begging want to put in place. Yeah, I hear you're talking about using social instruments. But can anyone tell me what social instruments you want to use to stop this business? Is it building facilities to attract even more people? Is it to put in place day-to-day arrangements for this group, as we, among other things, Do foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons attract even more? Are there even more social instruments to be introduced, which will attract even more people? Is that what you want? I think, with respect to reporting, that the Minister of Justice should also be able to indicate whether you have local police regulations and can regulate them yourself. I think, with respect to reporting, that in this case you can give this recommendation to other municipalities, if you have succeeded in some, without a ban. And I think, with respect to reporting, that you can signal to all the municipalities that are now planning to use substantial resources and resources to build facilities for this group, that at least you don't recommend it until the government has thought of it – as I hear from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5004	It is, as the President concluded, late in the evening. I quoted in my post Jan P. Syse, and Oktay Dahl believes that if he were to lie down on my level, he would quote Breshnev or Honecker, and then I must say that I have to take along the Jan P. Syse in defense. It's a completely unreasonable group in which he puts Syse. Oktay Dahl compares to the Sex Purchases Act, and that's a good point. There, we criminalised the sex buyer, not those who were subjected to abuse, which may now be the subject of the proposal. My conclusion is that it is a blind lead to ban people from bombing a tens, whether it must be a tens to get a better future in Romania, or to a coffee or a beer, or to what other Norwegian drug addicts spend money on. They're also human beings, and the last thing they need is further marginalization.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5011	I have great respect for the Storting and my colleagues and will not use the ruling techniques that someone tried to use here, on some of those who are opposed to banning begging. I'm just wondering if the big-time representatives who want to ban begging are able to get involved in a beggar's life. It's a human being, just like us, who finds it necessary to stand in a street with a hand pulled out. It is a state of mind that we are unable to understand – we who sit in safe homes and have millions of wages and miscellaneous things. Nevertheless, when a human being finds it right and necessary, there must be a reason for it. And that's why we have to try to understand. It's not like you want it because you think it's fun, that you think it's just nice to do it. I agree with Mr Per Sandberg's reflection: what social instruments should we be able to set in motion? What about giving them the opportunity to get to work? But there, the representative Sandberg and his party will have an even bigger castle around the borders of Norway – not to be satisfied with the castle that lies beyond the borders of the European Union. So social means exist, but then someone has to be willing to give them a chance. Then it's the organisation of begging. Yes, if I was a father and had six children and a wife, and we were now going to get into a situation where there was no other option than going and begging, and I say to one of the children: stand there, and to the other: there, and to the wife: there. I'll bring you a cup of coffee at 8:00. 12, I'll bring you a faris at noon. 14, and I'll bring you dinner at 2. 15, and then I'm going to get some money. It is in good Norwegian an organisation. But is it illegal? Is there anyone who can tell me that it's illegal? The organisation of criminal activities is illegal and is punishable from the outset. So I don't understand these big business representatives who want to ban organized begging. So my good colleague, Oktay Dahl, came in and said there was disagreement in the government parties. Yes, there is disagreement in the government parties. But if Oktay Dahl has been awake in the debate: he got himself his two comrades against himself. The Left and Christian People's Party is against banning begging. The representative shall form a government with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5024	André Oktay Dahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5028	I'm going to correct an obvious misunderstanding relating to the Honorary Syse. So it wasn't his quotes I drew links to. It was the ability of some SV representatives to talk about class societies and stamp Right's intentions and the intention of the Advance Party as a form of class justice. That is why I chose to use some of the examples that parts of SV have had in the past. When it comes to getting involved in how beggars as part of organized human trafficking do, I can actually do that. I've been working on that theme for many years, meeting people who've been exposed to it. I have spent two years in a working group that has worked against human trafficking in the Baltic Sea cooperation. I have become rapporteur for the follow-up to the decisions attached to it. I've met a lot of non-governmental organisations in the field. So I think it actually got into the sequence, that one suspects the intentions of the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Right, which are actually exactly the same as the SV's intentions: to help the people who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5035	I'll try to be brief, but it was the representative Chaudhry who actually put the ball on the penalty mark. If it had been so that Chaudhry had come into a situation where he had to send his six children out to beg, and the wife in addition, there would have been reactions from the authorities of Norway. Then you'd probably have a reaction where child protection picked up the kids, and Chaudhry had lost the rights of her children – at least for a period of time. That is what happens when you use the family members – children – around Europe. In relation to this type of activity, begging is seen to be the only part, but there is a significantly greater risk that these children will also be exposed to other types of crime, such as sexual abuse, etc. That's why you have to start at the right end. Had it been possible to start at the other end and stop those starting the organization, you might have done so. But I think we have to remove the market – if it's possible to call it – for those who start that kind of business. Unfortunately, then, the ban is what we have to start with. Then we'd better see and adjust the rate accordingly. So I register, yes, if social instruments are to put everyone into work, we also get an interesting development in how many we do to work afterwards. Then we just start a new wave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5042	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute. The President can inform us that it's no longer right to say that it's late evening, now we're getting closer early in the morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5047	This is for the last post by the representative Sandberg. It was a wise move. That's right, if I had come into a situation where I had to organize the family to beg, the child protection would have come in. It is the first time the term ‘child protection’ is mentioned in this debate. The question is: why is it not for the children who come from Romania that child protection should take care of them? Why is it that my children have a better protection than the children who come from Romania? So until what the representative Sandberg was about: all exploitation and the fact that children are subjected to assault and other types of criminal activity is punishable. We don't have to get into it that time after time – it's punishable. So we have to use the tools we have, and not push things in front of us – that will make it easier for all of us. If we dispose of the market, then we have solved the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5054	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5068	In this case, there is broad consensus in the committee, and the vote is unanimous in its entirety. That's good. The Committee endorses the intention of the proposal by Hanne Thürmer, Laila Davøy and Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and supports the inclusion of the protocol. We are all deeply concerned about the development of ever-new synthetic drugs. I think the president otherwise pronounced them elegant, so I'm just saying synthetic drugs that give users – essentially young people – a high health risk. The substances are speculatively manufactured to circumvent the law, and the only purpose is to give drugs. As soon as possible, we need to put in place a law to ensure effective and rapid inclusion in the drug list when such new substances appear. Today it often takes too much time, and so it should not continue. In a letter from Minister of Health and Health Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen to the Committee, the Minister explained that in the summer the State Medicines Agency will present a new draft drug regulation, including a drug definition. This has been discussed in the past, but in order to improve legislation, and in the light of the input made in that consultation round, there is a new draft that will soon be available. Then follow an ordinary hearing. The Ministry has asked the Swedish Medical Products Agency to look at the recommendations made by the United Nations professional body in this area, i.e. an assessment of whether to have a generic definition of this in order to cover as many types of substances as possible. This means that a new regulatory framework, such as: shall contribute to the elimination of interpretability, may be in place within a reasonable time. We need to have high ambitions that new legislation should make a significant difference in the fight against the drug industry and in order to better prevent drug abuse. The Committee has chosen to refer to the views of the police lawyers in its capacity. Moreover, police lawyers are generally quite active and constructive towards the Committee. As rapporteur of the case, I have had a dialogue with the police lawyers. They want a bag order – as they themselves call it in a letter I've been given – that captures as many new drugs as possible. Here it is that one in this area thinks quite equally in the department compared to what the police lawyers do of assessments. We also refer to Rusfeld’s cooperation body, Actis, which points out that Sweden has a law that allows authorities to destroy substances with harm and potential for abuse in the case of substances that are not yet on the drug list. From the Committee's point of view, it may be interesting to consider whether this might be relevant for Norway. I believe that the proposal of the three Christian People's Party representatives is well taken care of by this unanimous vote, if, on the basis of the current regulatory process, we do not support the proposal itself. I hope that the Christian People's Party – and the Left, which is not on the committee either – can join in this way of dealing with it. It's important that the process goes fast. Good quality assurance of the work now being provided by the Agency and the Ministry is also very important. It is, of course, through regulatory work that one here gets the legislation in place to bring us new steps forward in the fight against the drug industry. Today, the size sends important and clear signals that we will go more strongly to work — using stronger lye — to combat this cynical activity by the drug industry, which affects so many in our society and which we really need to take seriously. We show the seriousness when we stand together, as we do today. So thank the members of the committee for a very constructive cooperation around this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5096	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good presentation of the matter. The committee has also worked very well together. Now the rapporteur has said the most important thing here, and here there is a job done by the department, and we expect that the tempo plan that the government has set up is now being implemented, and that we can put in place a new regulation. We know, among other things: from the customs office that you are concerned about everything you actually have to get in, which should actually be on a list of prohibited substances. So we need to have more effective legislation in the world we live in today, where it is actually easy to order drugs and get them delivered, and where there is a growing trend with new drugs, which are often even worse and even more harmful than the substances that are banned. So here we have to get a code in place as soon as possible. The discussion in the committee was about whether to go for the proposal of the Christian People's Party, but the consequence here is that the proposal as it has been presented is adopted in many ways – although it is not formally adopted – because this work is in progress. The Progress Party is pleased that we can now put in place a new regulatory framework. I am also very pleased that the rapporteur on the matter referred to what the police lawyers have recorded, and what Actis has recorded, and if I have understood it correctly in relation to how you now work in the department, in the Medical Products Agency, etc., that kind of point of view will be part of it. So I am pleased that the proposal is annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5114	I'll be brief. I just want to thank the proposers for a very good proposal. The situation is that for many years we have seen this development spreading in quite a number of countries it is natural to compare with. It has only recently become well aware of the challenge in Norway. In England, young people who have really ended up buying drugs that can be as bad as those that are defined as drugs have been seen. One thing is the health challenges: I'm happy in zombie movies, but in the so-called zombie attacks that have been in the United States, you're wondering if it can be caused by what's been called 'badesalt' that you've sold in the shops. This is a form of legal means that people use, which can lead to them becoming extremely aggressive, getting hallucinations and committing gross crime. So this is an incredibly important proposal that we now agree to attach to the protocol, but which hopefully will be followed up properly by the government. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is important to look at what is sold as a ‘health food’ in Norwegian shops in parallel with this work. Here, there has been a narrowing, but we know that in the past, there has been a discovery that there are preparations and resources sold over the counter – and not just under the counter – in Norwegian shops today, which can contain quite a lot of the substances that can create both the one and the other reactions of those who use it. I've tried a drug myself. It was too many, many years ago in Spain. It was very nice to use for training and bought at a very good health care store, but I discovered very quickly that – in addition to almost not getting a pulse – I became very angry, did not sleep and became very aggressive. There was certainly no marked difference, but at least there was no particularly pleasant experience, and I ended up with it after quite a short time. But after looking at some websites, I think there are actually shops in Norway that still sell that kind of money. So it is important to work closely with the EU and international organisations to keep up-to-date on what the industry is doing. For some, not only do they sell illegal funds; they combine where they can collect money and where they find loopholes in the legislation, they sell both over the network and under the counter. So when someone wants to strengthen the Tolls' possibilities, this is a piece of it next to what I picked up now. So I want to thank the proposers again for a good proposal, and I hope that we will get a case for the Storting relatively quickly, so that we can make some decisions and implement what we all agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5131	First, I must also be allowed to thank for the good words of several of those who have made contributions. At the same time, I can confirm that the Christian People's Party does not want to reopen the proposal, because we are very pleased with the treatment that our proposal has received – with the rapporteur in charge, but also with the rest of the committee. We are also satisfied with the timetable outlined in the letter from the Minister of Health, and we expect this to be followed up. That's why we're also going to keep up with the progress, so hopefully we'll get a case quite early in the autumn. As others have pointed out, some of the points are precisely that these are legal substances that can be manufactured simply. You can simply avoid the law, and in addition, it can be very strong. Not letting the drug industry continue to take over, but that we can get a little more ahead at least is an incredibly important and necessary step that the Committee concludes unanimously. The important thing for us is that something is happening, and we feel that a unanimous committee has clearly stated that it should, and that is why we are not addressing the proposal that we put forward in the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5142	As many people before me, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the proposers for putting this important theme on the agenda – even if you can almost call it a night order. Getting legislation to ensure that these synthetic cannabinoids and synthetic opioids come under drug law will be an important measure to combat the increasing use of these substances and thus all the adverse effects they cause. A short time ago, I attended a conference directed by Sirus. The main theme was ‘What do we know about cannabis?’ The initiators considered this to be a result of several factors, including: that most people have gained more knowledge about the serious health damage caused by cannabis. However, we see a dramatic increase in the use of synthetic cannabinoids. The sale has completely gone off the Internet. These drugs, also marketed as ‘Legal Highs’, were sold on a total of 693 websites in January this year, compared with 314 in January last year, i.e. more than one year’s doubling. More and more types of substances are emerging on the market. The market is inconclusive and the content of these products is often a well-kept secret. It's scary how little we really know about what kind of substances are in the different products, and not least the effects of these substances. What we know, however, is that the drug can cause overdoses because the effect increases proportionally with the intake, as opposed to, for example, herbal cannabis. Serious adverse reactions such as myocardial infarction have been reported at 17 years of age. Psychosis with self-injury, accidents and deaths has also been reported. When we know how dangerous these substances are, it's scary to hear how innocent the young people who order this online think they are. Users are most concerned with the benefits of use rather than the adverse effects. The benefits of the list of young people are everything from cheap, easy access, regularity, guarantee of delivery, strong – in fact, two to three hundred times more than usual hashish – drug withdrawals quickly, and not being detected in urine samples. If we do not have anything to do with the attitudes to the use of these substances, I am afraid that in the future we will see more users, younger users, an increased need for treatment and an increased use of other drugs. This kind of development we have to do everything we can to prevent. A law that allows these synthetic drugs to come under drug law is, as I said, important, both because it gives a signal effect and because, among other things, it does. make police work to combat both sales, purchases and use much easier. But such a change of laws will not be enough alone. In addition, we need to know more about the substances and the adverse health and social impacts. Furthermore, we need to be much better off getting this important knowledge out — out to young people, out to parents and out to people most to prevent people from being tempted to take these drugs. The work must therefore be intensified. My opinion is that only then will we have the opportunity to succeed in combating the use of these synthetic cannabinoids.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5159	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5173	So as it says in the summary and in the introduction, it's according to St.prp. No 12 for 2008-2009 and Innst. S. No 107 for 2008-2009 that the Judicial Remuneration Committees should provide the Storting with information on their work through an annual report. It is in this report, through Document 17, that the Committee has fallen into a unanimous position in which we attach the document protocol. What is to say about the sample sizes is that the committee is very pleased that the number of cases under the scheme has decreased. The Committee considers this to be evidence of the fact that many within the different groups have therefore been dealt with. Residues are well-developed, and the time for dealing with them has become acceptable. It is not really more to say, except that the Committee has, of course, been made aware of the fact that matters that come in now appear to be somewhat more complex because the applicants state several reasons. This should be borne in mind by the Committee, and we hope that the committees will also be able to deal with these matters in an orderly, straightforward and constructive manner within the timescales for which they are based. So I'm just promoting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5184	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5200	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5214	On 31 May the Grand Duchy dealt with a legal case concerning the repeal of Law No 24 June 1988. 64 on the admission of foreigners to the State and their residence here, namely the termination of the transitional arrangements for workers from Bulgaria and Romania. It was a mistake that Stortinget got this case processed. In fact, the law in question was already repealed in the context of the adoption of new foreign law. In order to remedy this situation, the Municipal and Administrative Committee proposes that the Stortinget adopt today, at the second reading of the case, a statement that the legislative proposal should be laid down. The final recommendation will then be made at the third reading of the case at a later meeting. I refer to the proposal that has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5227	The representative, Hilde Magnusson, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It would have taken place if we had repealed a law that had already been repealed. We'll get back to it when it comes to voting. It's actually going to be a historical thing. It's the first time that we've lifted laying and cutting, that we're using the possibility that we have two legal procedures. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5247	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5261	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5275	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5281	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5289	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, proposals No. 2–6, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2-4, from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In the Mental Health Act, a new section 4A-4 shall be added: if there is reason to believe that the patient is hiding or attempting to introduce a dangerous article, drug or drug, studies may be carried out on the patient’s person, space and assets. The study may be carried out using technical equipment or dog, or by body inspection. Mobile telephones or other means of communication may only be seized if there is a reasonable suspicion that they should be used as a means of escape. Where there is a reasoned and strong suspicion that a patient in the body is hiding such articles or substances as referred to in the first subparagraph, professionally responsible decisions may be taken to carry out a physical examination or any other measure to produce the article or substance. The measure may only be carried out by health professionals. Decisions following the second and third subparagraphs shall be taken without delay and justified. The patient or his or her immediate dependants may appeal the decision of the Control Commission. The Ministry may lay down rules on the implementation of the measures referred to in this paragraph.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the Mental Health Act, Section 4A-5 on the examination of persons and articles is replaced by the following: Visits to the Regional Security Department may be verified, but verification shall be avoided if safety reasons do not contradict it. Control may be carried out by passing metal detector and visitation. The inclusion of items, including mobile phone or other means of communication, in and out of the Regional Security Department is not permitted without the authorisation of control personnel. The examination referred to in the first subparagraph shall not be carried out against a lawyer, or on behalf of the patient, in appeal proceedings, public authority representatives, including diplomatic or consular representatives, unless there is particular reason to believe that he is attempting to introduce a dangerous object, a drug, a drug or a means of escape. Examination of items belonging to public authority representatives, diplomatic or consular representatives, lawyers and the person acting on behalf of the patient in appeal proceedings shall not lead to the disclosure or destruction of confidential content in letters or documents. Refusal of control measures, avoidance or attempted avoidance of control measures may result in rejection.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In the Mental Health Act, Section 4A-6 Relation to the outside world is replaced by the following: Anyone who has a daily stay in the Regional Security Department has the right to receive a visit, use a telephone, send and receive letters and packages. The professional responsible may adopt restrictions on the patient’s relationship with the outside world for up to two weeks, if there is a justified suspicion of escape, serious violence, the introduction of drugs, drugs, escape aid or dangerous article or an attack on the patient. Such restrictions must be proportionate to what is necessary to ensure safety. Limitations may be made to: (a) visits must be carried out with personnel present or with glass walls separating patients and visitors; (b) telephone calls must be pre-approved, interceptable and interrupted; (c) the use of electronic means of communication must be pre-approved, monitored and interrupted; (d) mail opened, controlled and fully or partially retractable; (e) approved interpreter translates communication, if in a language other than that under the control of the personnel. The rules of procedure may lay down restrictions as to the times and duration of communication. No restrictions may be adopted on the right to communicate with the public authority representative, diplomatic or consular representative, the lawyer of the patient, the person acting on behalf of the patient in a complaint case or a priest or equivalent social security institution. Decisions on the measures referred to in the second subparagraph shall be taken without delay and justified. The patient or his or her immediate dependants may appeal the decision of the Control Commission. The Ministry may lay down rules on the implementation of the measures referred to in this paragraph.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5372	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4A-8 of the Mental Health Act, the first sentence of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: in specific cases where there is a particular risk of escape, hostage-taking, serious violent behaviour or attacks against co-patients or personnel, the court may decide that patients sentenced to mandatory mental health protection shall be transferred to a unit with a particularly high level of safety. Transfer to a unit with a particularly high level of safety shall only be possible if the conditions of the criminal law §§ 39 and 39b are fulfilled. The court shall obtain the police's assessment of the security before a transfer decision is taken and before the patient is returned from a unit with a particularly high level of safety to a lower level of safety. Transmission decisions shall be recorded without delay and justified and may only be taken for up to 6 months at a time. The Ministry may provide detailed rules on the conditions of transfer to an entity with a particularly high level of security and the implementation of security measures in accordance with Clauses 4A-10 to 4A-13.» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5399	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked in the context of the presentation of the national strategy for the reduction and proper use of coercion to carry out a fundamental review of the Mental Health Act.’ [[2012-2015]] The Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5416	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4A-8 of the Mental Health Act, the first sentence shall be replaced by the following: in specific cases where there is a particular risk of escape, hostage-taking, serious violent behaviour or attack against the patient himself, co-patients or personnel, the professional responsible may decide that patients sentenced to mandatory mental health protection shall be transferred to a unit with a particularly high level of safety.’; The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5756	The left has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5769	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The left has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5783	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5831	During the debate Siri A. Meling put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of the need for flood and racial protection, as well as the associated strategy and state escalation plan for meeting the situation’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to review the rules for compensation in the event of flooding, racial and natural damage to the municipalities, with a view to increasing the State’s financial responsibility when municipalities are disproportionately hard hit.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5871	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the 2013 State Budget, to submit proposals for a strategy to strengthen the Norwegian Corps Movement.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5894	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, saying, ‘The government is asking that the school corps movement be included in the UNESCO World Heritage List of Intangible Cultural Heritage’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5913	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government immediately asks – and in line with the Innst intentions. S. No 185 and Inn. [[2006-2007]] [[2008-2009]] O. No 25 Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5942	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce clear guidelines which stress that budgetary treatment obliges municipalities to maintain a certain level of subsidies to private kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e5966	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to go through the regulation on equal treatment for the award of government grants to non-municipal kindergartens and to ensure that non-municipal kindergartens are provided with predictable, fair and real funding.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6080	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6093	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left still want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6107	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6211	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6221	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6229	A total of 30 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–30, from Per-Willy Amundsen of the Progress Party. The President noted that proposal No. 5 and 6 are identical, and proposal No. 6 will therefore be omitted from voting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos 1 to 5 and 7 to 30, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for CO2 intensity rather than total CO2 emissions when discussing the need for national measures in industry and other sectors, so that Norwegian businesses can develop their activities in Norway rather than have to increase their output abroad.’ Proposal No. 2 says: ‘The government asks the government to ignore the target of 2/3 cut by 2020.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government is asking for national and international certified CO2 reduction measures to be equivalent, so that measures are implemented where they have the greatest effect.’ Proposal No. 4 reads: ‘The government is asked to prepare both national and global CO2 budgets for national measures and where measures that do not deliver significant global benefits are reviewed.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the funding of the climate fund in order to base it on the principles underlying the NOx fund. The revenues of the Climate Fund shall be based on the designation of the Norwegian capped CO2 levy.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking to ensure the rapid implementation of CO2 compensation for industry’s costs in the power price.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives to increase the use of gas in Norwegian industrial activities rather than forcing such an industry out of the country.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for positive signals for the establishment of gas-based industrial activities, such as aluminium works and ironworks, which will cut CO2 emissions from today’s coal-based installations.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to allow industry to own its own hydroelectric power plants as long as the power is used for industrial activities, which ensures the development of environmentally friendly industrial activities in Norway.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, thereby avoiding compliance with the Kyoto Agreement by ‘exporting’ Norwegian industry’s point emissions and jobs.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to increase the investment in hydropower through measures to upgrade and expand existing hydropower plants, to allow the development of larger hydropower plants, where no new major infrastructures are required, to permit careful hydropower deployment of the Wefsna and to evaluate previous protective plans with a view to harvesting water resources without damaging the environmental values.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to allow local proceedings for smaller hydroelectric and wind power projects where the municipality itself wishes to do so.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adjust the depreciation rates for wind and hydropower equivalent to those in Sweden.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to adapt the legislation of the certification system so that the end period is equal to that of Sweden.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to open up locations other than Mongstad to build full-scale gas power plants with no cur – no pay state funding, which will increase the chances of successful results in the development of new technologies.’ 17 reads: ‘The government asks the government to develop a CO2 project where the aim is to find commercial use of CO2 as an input factor.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government requests the use of the coal-fired power plant on Svalbard as ‘test-site’ for coal-fired power treatment.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to disregard the proposal for aggravation of building engineering regulations to passive house level in 2015 and zero energy level in 2020.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better depreciation rates for energy and environmental measures in buildings.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for tax credits for energy and environmental measures in private homes with a technology-neutral approach.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a growth in road construction across the country, so that the increase in the use of collective services is not at the expense of road construction.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for more environmentally friendly fuels and energy sources, while ensuring that a distortion of the fuel charge mechanism does not lead to an increase in fuel per fuel charge. litre.’» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in car taxes on purchases that stimulate faster replacement of the car fleet and contribute to the award of environmentally friendly cars.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the wreckage.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to build modern, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads by setting up a state-owned socio-economic road construction company based on the ‘Avinor model’.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a State Railway Development Company, based on the ‘Avinor model’.’» Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The government asks the government to grant tax deductions for the employer’s paid collective card.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a tax incentive to move long-distance goods from road to road and keel.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a new FME centre for Thorium in cooperation with IFE’s Haldenrector’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6512	There will be a vote on the position of the Committee on I, II, III, VIII, X, XI, XII and XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6523	The Committee's position on IV, V, VI, VII, IX and XIV will be further contested. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6587	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6597	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6721	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6731	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6755	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to prepare a strategy for a government sale in Posten Norge AS that facilitates too much small savings and employee purchases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6782	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision empowers the government to quote the Post Norway AS and convert the company into a public limited-liability company.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6797	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the exclusive right of Post Norway AS for letter items below 50 grams and to remove the concession requirement for Saturday mail distribution from 1 January 2013. Saturday newspaper assignment of the post is assumed to be maintained.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6814	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to transfer the government’s ownership of the State in Posten Norge AS to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6829	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce Directive 2008/6/EC.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6929	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6939	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6947	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy approves the extension of the E16 Fønhus-Bagn in the municipality of South Aurdal in Oppland as described in Prop. [[2011-2012]] 101 S Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e6965	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e7689	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e7699	The law will be followed up to the second time in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e7707	Although the suspension was initially unanimous, the case rapporteur, Anders B. Werp, pointed out that he recommended that he vote against the Committee's suspension of point (d) of the second paragraph of Section 216b. The applicant therefore recommends that the suspension should not be adopted in the case of point (d) of the second paragraph of § 216b. This recommendation has been supported not only by the Right, but also by the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. There is therefore every reason to believe that the setting of Section 216b, second paragraph, point (d) will fall. However, we have to do the voting, based on the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8064	First of all, the suspension of Article 216b, second paragraph, point (d) of the Committee shall be contested. All parties have recommended that we vote against it. The voting boards showed that 102 votes were cast against and 1 vote in favour of the Committee's suspension to point (d) of the second paragraph of Section 216b. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.46.03]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8075	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8080	The President assumes that the representative believes that there should not be 2 votes in favour. The number of votes shall then be 103 votes against and 0 votes in favour of the nomination of the Committee to III, § 216b, second paragraph, point (d). The Committee's position is therefore not favourable. The Committee shall then vote for the position of I, II, the remaining paragraphs of III, IV, V, VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8096	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8106	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8304	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8314	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8322	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 reads: ‘The government is asked to go through the use of sanctions in the event of a breach of rules as a result of errors in completing the form, where there is no personal gain.’ Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘The decision requests the Government to make appropriate proposals to enable the administration to exercise reasonable discretion so that the penalties are proportionate to the seriousness of the breach.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8337	The Christian People's Party also wants to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8342	Then it is clear that the Christian People's Party also wants to support the proposals. Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8367	During the debate Åse Michaelsen has put forward two proposals. It's proposal No 1 on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce a system based on objective criteria whereby the voluntary sector is fully exempted from VAT expenditure as compensation for the current VAT compensation scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8395	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote appropriate and targeted legislative proposals for the prohibition of begging, in the context of combating trafficking in human beings and organised crime.’ The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8449	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8457	During the debate, Hilde Magnusson put forward a proposal for an opinion on behalf of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The legislative proposal should be deposited.’;» As the rapporteur explained when making the proposal, the Stortinget has, in the event of an error, had to deal with a proposal for the repeal of a law which had already been repealed. The adoption of a proposal for a remark implies that the Stortinget will stop excessive legal proceedings, and this will be done at the third reading in the Stortinget. There is then a vote on the motion for a resolution put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8480	Note to the legislative decision has been adopted unanimously and, in accordance with the Constitution, is taken up to the third reading in the Grand Duchy at a later date. Voting in Case No 27-29
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8486	In the case of cases No. 27–29, are the second legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-11.ana.ud535e8571	Thus, today's map has been processed, or i.e. yesterday's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
