ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e51	Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 26 November to 29 November to attend the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO in Scotland of representatives Laila Davøy and Steinar Gullvåg on leave on 26 and 27 November – both to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Brussels On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Filip RyggFor the county of Nordland: Kari StorstrandFor the county of Vestfold: Heidi Ørnlo
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e105	In 2009, a report by two NOVA researchers showed that the proportion of unearned annual coals remained stable for quite decades in Norway until the early 1990s. Then it started to increase. The number of juveniles has increased by 24 pst. in the last four years and now account for almost 10000 persons. Between 2001 and 2011, the number of young people under the age of 25 increased by 50 pst, while the number under the age of 20 rose by 76 pst. It doesn't have to be a problem in itself. From nature, from birth onward, there are some who have so many injuries or diseases that they can't reasonably be expected to work. It is obvious to the right that, in a welfare society, those born with injuries, injuries or injuries that are so serious that they cannot reasonably be said to be able to participate in the labour market must also have a good and decent security of income. It is also reasonable and self-evident that if you have not been in working life but become unemployed at an early age and have not earned any rights, you need extra compensation to ensure that the income you will have for the rest of your life does not become so low that it is not possible to live on. I want to repeat it: if you are too sick to work, you should not work either. You're going to get misplaced, and you're not going to be ashamed that you're leaning on the welfare society that we're all involved in building up, and that we're all using, at a different point. Why is it that the Right believes that the increase in the proportion and number of young people is a problem? It could be about economics, for example. But it's not primarily that. The large costs of disability do not come from young people. They come from the big coals that are now 50+ and that go out of work earlier than at retirement. It could have been because of future prospects. Some scenario could be considered where, because the proportion of young people in each year's coal is increasing, the trend will continue. Ergo, we should be worried about the future and that the numbers are going to increase in the future. But the right is not primarily concerned about it for that reason either. The reason why the Right is concerned is that we suspect that for some of the young disabled people, it is not just about nature, from the birth of or after an accident, that you are so sick or injured that you cannot contribute to the working life, but that in some way it is about a welfare society that gives people up, so that some people – not all – who pass on to disability at an early age, end up there because we cannot help them in other ways, that the disability becomes the safety valve of the welfare state, a way to pay off the problem with a monthly check instead of addressing the basic problems. In short, we suspect that a number of young people are being dissatisfactioned, and thus giving them up, because it is simple, rather than addressing the basic problems and helping them to move on. There's something special about getting dissatisfaction at a young age. If you, for example, In the morning, at the age of 25, we find that you are filling the medical criteria for disability. So you have such a severely reduced ability to work that you're out of work when you're 25. So what the system says is that we expect you to be a 30-year-old as well, as a 35-year-old, as a 40-year-old, as a 50-year-old and as a 60-year-old. As a youth, you know that you get money for the rest of your life, but that's all you get. There are three things we know for sure. First of all, we know that disability is basically for life. The other thing we know is that just 1 pst. Young people are back to work after five years. The third thing we know for sure, is that far more than one percent want to be in work, all or part, wants to be in activity. There are many and complicated reasons why the proportion and number of young people are increasing. I want to point out two, because I think it's the two things that it's possible to address politically. The first is evident in a qualitative study in the Agder counties that came a few years ago and is called a life I didn't choose. It turns out that some of the young people who are disabled have suffering that is not the one we're talking about, that is, damage from nature, from the birth of or other physical damage, but complex, complicated suffering that gets worse because they go through the system year after year without actually getting help. It's typical people who come to the Nav office and find out that yes, you can get a check, but it takes a long time to get psychological help. And then maybe they'll get them after each psychologist's help. Then they get an hour from the psychologist every week, but all the other days they have nothing to fill in, just because the system can't coordinate the effort. A lot of people come from families that have problems. As we know, some of the most hereditary things in Norway are not wealth, but a difficult situation at home. The second group was described quite well in a chronicle in Dagbladet a few months ago that received a lot of attention. It called a «terrorist snouts» confessions. It got a lot shut, because there aren't so many who dare to stand up and say that they're social security ministers, but the truth is that the person who had written it was probably not a social security servant like that. He may have represented a slightly larger group than many in politics like to think, namely the group that gets into the Nav system because they don't totally deal with everyday life, have a slight mental disorder and somehow can't get it addressed in the healthcare system. And then you have a system where Nav doesn't talk to the health service, the health service doesn't talk to Nav, and there's no one talking to you. There are no simple solutions to these issues, but let me still sketch four angles of incidence: First of all, we have to break the connection between getting into the system and being passive, and that disability for some is the only way out. I'm almost tempted to say – and it's also research evidence to claim that this is sometimes the case – that for some people it's like they don't get well from going into the system, it's actually the system that makes them sicker. For someone, if you, for example, is healthy and young and comes to the Nav office to receive social assistance, which is not a health service, implies making clear demands. Early activity is important to many. Item No 2: Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in his time as Minister that one should “stand up in the morning”. I think it's very nice said. I agree. At the same time: if the reason you don't get up in the morning is because every day you encounter a darkness inside you that is big and devouring that it's absolutely impossible for you to deal with everyday life. It's not that you've been "worst in will," but that you've been so hurt inside that meeting the world outside is impossible. Or: If the reason you can’t ‘get up in the morning’ is not that you’re lazy, but simply that you have such a big drug problem that you can’t get up, it doesn’t just help to say: Get up! At that time, psychiatric services and drug treatment must be good. Both areas are areas that have been subject to a vote in the policy. Point 3: We shouldn't accept that disability benefit is automatic for the rest of our lives. By that I mean that in the moment you've grown young, it's so that Nav never lets you hear from him again. You get money, but that's all you get. We should have an opportunity to follow up systematically also those who have become disabled. That's one of the reasons why the Right has put money into it in its budget. Point 4: Our action system doesn't work well enough. In the best counties, for example. in my home country, Telemark, some of the communication measures are capable of getting eight out of ten out to work. In the worst counties, you barely get two out of ten out to work. Then there is no more money. Yesterday, I met a young man who could have fallen asleep. He described a Nav system in which he met many fine employees, but even after many years no one knew his name. Instead, his solution became a small project in the Bamble municipality that did what the Nav reform was really supposed to contribute to, namely, seeing him as a single person and contributing to the tailoring of welfare solutions. He's at work today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e147	As the representative of Røe Isaksen says, we have seen a gradual increase in the number of disabled people in Norway in the last 20 years. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the proportion of the working-age population receiving a disability pension has remained stable at around 10 pst. for several years, with a peak in 2004 of 10.4 pst. There has been an increase in the number of disability pensioners, but this increase must be seen in the context of increasing numbers and ageing. There is a need to nuance the picture presented by Røe Isaksen, also in terms of the evolution of the number and proportion of young people. The proportion of the population under the age of 30 was 1.2 p.m. at the end of September. The growth in the last two years must be seen in the context of what the Right and other parties agreed with the government in this Chamber, namely to wind up a temporary zero-tire. In 2003, the proportion of the population was below 30 years of age at the current level, i.e. 1.2 pst. In other words, there has not been an uncontrolled growth in the labour market in the last ten years. I still think the situation is worrying. Our goal is to reduce the number of failures. Nor should we go into the trap solely to focus on those who have become young disabled. That's 3.6 pst. of young people under 30 years of age who receive redundancy benefits. It is essential that, through active measures, we make every effort to get the most back into work or education and prevent them from ending up as disability pensioners. So it's important to remember that the diagnostic composition of the unborn is significantly different. Muscle and skeletal disorders account for about 1 pst., while there are other diseases, such as: congenital diseases of the nervous system and mental retardation, which make up a large part of the diagnosis of young people. It is worth noting that the number of mentally ill patients with primary diagnosis has increased significantly in the last 20 years. Today, it amounts to about 60 pst. of the young misguided. Half of these are mentally retarded. Many of these jobs. So it's not that among the young disabled people, everyone sits at home. For many, disability benefit is a hedge of income, some of which are working today. Maybe they're the ones who meet every day at work. If we look at the reasons for changes in mental disorders, they may be more. Firstly, we have made significant medical progress, we have been better diagnosed and we have been given increased acceptance for mental disorders. Secondly, there may be changes in social and labour life, which we have seen over time have contributed to more people taking out disability pensions. It may have become more difficult for people with mental illness to fit into the labour market because of expectations at work. We have to work actively on this. What we see is that the changes also have some administrative reasons. This is due, among other things, to the decrease in the 2004 sustained disability pension ratio in the context of the introduction of temporary unpaid pay. I believe that the workline is the most important thing. That is why we have taken several steps to get more young people to work. The first thing we have done is to promote the national strategy plan for work and mental health. We have some good results in this area, including: the unemployed. It has been well evaluated, and it turns out that employers are satisfied with that measure, which has made them more afraid to invest in labour where there are severe mental disorders. Then we have to work actively with regard to high school drop-outs. This is why the New GIV — implementation in secondary education is a very important prevention measure to prevent young people from falling out of the labour market. We've seen a slight increase in the implementation of high school, but the goal is to have an implementation of 75 pst. in the course of five years. Then we have implemented a job strategy for people with disabilities. It targets young people under 30 years of age who need assistance. That is why we have also put in place several action areas. We also introduce compensation of employees for employers from 1 January 2013. The government has also proposed strengthening the work of the Labour and Welfare Act with young people under 25 years of age, through the new Youth Guarantee. It's just going to help us get a stronger follow-up on each one. I'm a little uncertain about what kind of action right here is proposing. First of all, the representative said that he believes that someone is getting sick from going into the same system year after year. I'm a little surprised that the measure proposed by the Right is that you have to enter and stay in this system for even more years because you have to reconsider your inadequacy. I think it doesn't help get more kids into work. On the contrary, I believe that the new disability pension that we have now agreed on in this room will help more young people dare to start a part-time job and gradually return to work. But I feel that what the Right proposes is an old medicine, and that what is presented by measures here is similar to reintroducing the temporary non-introduction fee. It's not a new idea. It's an old idea. There are a lot of reasons why we terminated that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e173	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I suspect her to make a finished written script. That's really normal. But I can't believe that I was so unsound when I described the figures for the young disabled – but it was well in the script, so it's going to be okay. First I just want to clear up a misunderstanding. I also believe that having some sort of automatic reassessment of all young people is probably not a good approach. But it has to be an intermediary. Because what's happening today, like I said, is that if you're at the age of 25, you don't initially hear a hug anymore from Nav, except that you get the money into the account. Neither do you when you're 35 or 45. There are enough examples of – and this is anecdotal, but still – people who say they've tried to get in touch with Nav. They would like help to come back after 10 or 15 years, but that was not possible. It may be due to the work pressure in Nav, but it is something that needs to be addressed – we need to talk about that and do something about it. Then I have three concrete challenges for the Council of State. The first is action. Just spending more money doesn't help, the measures have to work. Some measures work very well — others do not. The government has not said that it will not provide a big message based on the Brofoss Committee’s investigation, which is a review of the measures in Norway, but it has not said that it will. So my question is: will the Council provide a big message with a review of the action plan in Norway? Question no. 2: Will the Council of State be in favour of some sort of follow-up of young people even after they have been disabled? Note that the proportion of young people who are unemployed and who generally return to work is small. If we think it's a law of nature that it has to be, well, then we can just give up. Then we can stop discussing this, and just accept that a system of cash disbursement once a month we think is enough to give people dignity. I disagree. How should such a system be? Right here have ideas – I haven't heard from the Council of State for the time being. The third – the big and difficult issue – is to get the systems to talk to each other. How is it to ensure that Nav not only delivers figures on how many get individual levels, but that Nav actually has contact with the health care system? It should be that the health service has contact with Nav, that there is coordination, so that you do not risk being in line for a psychologist for six months, then one year in line for action, and then, when you have finished the action and are not ready to go to work, you have to wait three months and maybe start all over again – and three months if you are lucky! We have a system where each of the pieces may work well in itself, but we can't push them together into a whole picture that actually helps those people -- and young people -- who need the help so badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e190	Yes, I hear that the Right says they have suggestions. A number of proposals are promoted in this room that are not in the Right Programme – there are more loose ideas. What is proposed is to a large extent that people who have fallen ill are going through the same system of controls for even more years. I don't think that's gonna lead to more kids getting into work. We may have to have a system of more follow-up of those who have become disabled, but I believe that we should put the emphasis on preventing young people from becoming disabled. For this reason, our response apparatus is mainly targeted at those who are on redundancy pay. Then it's not like all those who are young disabled are not in any way in contact with the system and Nav. That's part of it. The image that the representative often draws is the image of a lazy welfare state that makes people not want to work. The truth is the opposite. We've got a lot of bad guys in Norway. This is because we have a good safety net for those who get sick, but we also have a lot of people working. So for the follow-up to the Brofoss committee's investigation. I believe that this is a very important discussion. There are different opinions among those who work to ensure that young people do not become disabled. I want to present a case to the Storting about it in an appropriate way – and address this discussion. It's important to get the systems to talk to each other. That is why I want to strengthen my cooperation with the Minister of Health in the case of young people who become disabled or who are on redundancy pay because of mental illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e201	I want a debate in which we focus on solutions. I heard that the representative Isaksen also said he would, but I heard no new solutions from the Right this time either. Instead, the Right and other parts of the opposition are still engaged in numerical polemics. Continuously, they claim that there is an explosion in the proportion of young people who are injured. That's wrong. Everyone in this room knows – and the statistics are ready – that the proportion is the same now as when the Right itself was in government. But same thing, let's end that discussion -- one unnecessary young deed is one too much. Let's discuss who they are. They are a diverse group, and the causes of disability are complex. There is no quick fix to prevent young people from becoming illiterate. Light-wine and unprofessional play, such as the need for young people to eat less potato gold and run a little more around Sognswasser, helps to make their way into or back to work — not less. The same thing is that you just have to get together. Nav has to get together, the young person has to get together, and we need a government job – that's the solution from the opposition. Erna Solberg’s claim that Nav actually creates miscarriages is another example of tabloid simplification. There are no well-functioning, fresh and schooly young people who suddenly decide to meet up on the Nav to get dissatisfaction. If it is that Norwegian youth is spoiled by oil wealth and morbidised by a lucrative Nav system, yes, the growth of young people should appear as a strange phenomenon. It's not. We see the same developments in Sweden and Denmark and in other countries. We're going to take this seriously and go to the depth of it. These young people who come to Nav have a challenging luggage. Most lack education, and many face drug and/or psychiatry challenges. Many have major health challenges — others have a family history and other ballasts that take so much of the attention and focus that they cannot concentrate on either school or job. We have to start early to build good lives. The state council said something about what's important in terms of prevention, so I'm not going to repeat it. Early efforts are crucial. When the young man stands at the door of Nav, we have actually failed. But when the young person first has to do it – that is, stand at the door of Nav – the principle of early action remains. It is essential that young people be helped more quickly and better and that they be called upon to do so. All shall contribute on the basis of their assumptions. The new Youthlift with 30 million. kr in bet, which we presented in connection with the budget, is part of this: early efforts and demands. The youth pledge applies to all those in need of help. Of course, those who do not need help, but who can get work for themselves, should do so. It is absolutely essential that in those cases where a young person is granted disability benefit, we are sure that light and light are light at all times possible to avoid this. With the Youthlift, the government is now taking a new step on the way to achieving the intention of the Nav reform: better and faster individual follow-up. We see the individual, we're going to make demands for you and give you opportunities based on your needs and your assumptions, assuming that your situation is completely unique and different from that of others, and we're going to put the effort in faster. We focus on better solutions – solutions that I have not yet heard that are supported by the Right. I also hear no new and better solutions launched by the Right. The opposition's line is a different one. The opposition shows an old-fashioned attitude that everyone is equal, that we need the same thing, and only we get the exact same duty pushed on us, that gives results. Their proposal for less individualisation and more state governance will deprive Nav of the ability to make the right assessments and tailor good plans for the individual. It's the opposition's line of social policy. It is their answer to the young who have fallen victim. This is a line that we recognize from the 1950s, when it was thought that whip and equalization was the solution to human development. The working party has a different line. We believe that demands and expectations are best combined with help and support based on individual needs. We focus on man – not the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e224	It's interesting to listen to the debate. It is clear that there will soon be a campaign – the old rhetoric has again taken over. But let me start by saying that I think the interpellation is raising an interesting debate here today. I think – with respect to reporting – it is worrying that more and more people are not being helped to get into the workplace, because that is what this is all about. Looking at the number of new deaths between 2008 and today, the number has increased for each year – from 22,082 in 2008 to over 30 000 in 2011. It also showed the figures in the bill from the government when they presented the government budget. That means that we can help less back into, and into, working life than we should have done. For me, it's about those people who want, who have abilities, who have facilities to get into the workplace, getting the necessary help to get into the world of work. Unfortunately, we feel today that too many of them are stamped permanently out of work. I have even met young people and disabled people who have received an offer from Nav about disability benefits in the mailbox. That seems to me to be a stigmatizing attitude: the application form is sent directly in the mailbox to the person, without setting up a close follow-up programme to join in and realize the dream of the youth, a dream in which a person is allowed to use his or her work skills and facilities in a good way. The Progress Party sees that one of the major challenges, among others: is drop-out in high school. Maybe it starts before that time as well. What about all those who don't go to high school, who go outside already after high school? We are well aware of the problem of reading and writing difficulties. We know well what numbers this leads to in the disability statistics. What about trying to achieve better cooperation between the training provision of guidance companies and individual secondary schools, where they could have been directly assisted, as a complement to secondary school? Then I'm not talking about New GIV. Then I am not talking about the measures that already exist, but about the fact that, through previous cooperation, one could have got 24/7 thinking towards young people to help them get to work. I have seen some states that have tried such projects on their own with great success – with great happiness: young people, even people who have had severe mental and drug problems, have managed to get through a training course while being treated in the health care system and get into the ordinary working life. That's the point of the Advance Party. That's what the Progress Party is looking for, that's to get more people into the ordinary world of work, and to realize more dreams for these young people. But I don't think the Council of State is promoting so many measures or concrete new ideas about how to meet this challenge. She clings herself to the old rhetoric and says in one post that she wants closer follow-up, but in the next post she's certainly not so sure if it's the right medicine. So what does the Council of State really mean? What is the government's policy on this? I have outlined an action: what about getting more places of action to meet that group, to qualify more people into the labour market? But the government is building down. It's building down. The same amount of shaking on the head, 70,450 is a larger number than 70,100. Each year, the total number of sites for action is reduced. You don't get away from it. You run with trixing and numerical redistribution. What about having a stepping-up plan to help more people get in, having higher ambitions and more force in the measures to help people get back to work? Then you might also have managed to succeed to a much greater extent and with much bigger things. There is something about seeing debates about corner stone companies in small communities disappearing, where there were no opportunities other than to disapprove the workers. It's not about people who meet medical criteria for disability. At least there should have been an even greater focus on helping these people get into the world of work rather than accepting disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e243	It is an important interpellation we have up in the Chamber today – even though the Council of State seems to want to run an electoral campaign rather than discuss the challenges of our common young people. It's about young people with the life cycle ahead of them, with what was really supposed to be all the opportunities ahead of them. The statistics to which the interpellant has referred draw a worrying picture, on which there is good reason to focus. I once heard a heart attack that sounded like this: God free me from being 17 again. Youth on the way out in life will make a number of choices. The choice you face first is the choice of education line. A sad fact today is that more than 30 pst. drop out of secondary education. Then the other intersections get in fast order: where am I going to live? What am I going to do? Do I get a job at all? This increase is particularly worrying among young people: in the 18- to 24-year-old group, the number of unemployed pensioners has increased from approx. 2,900 people to 4,600 people between 2001 and 2011, we can read in Work and Welfare No. 1/2012. It is a deep tragedy for these young people to fall out of the labour market in that way, even if they never get into it. A doctor has tried to explain why depression and anxiety, and therefore the number of psychiatric diagnoses, are so increasing in the group we're talking about. He felt that the young people are afraid of the very life and the challenges it can bring. The first source of protection for young people is their parents. Children and young people to master life depend on safe, stable homes and supportive parents to whom they have good relations. Then it's the school that's anchored. Safety is provided in a good school environment free of bullying and in a good learning environment, not least with good teachers. This is not a matter of course everywhere. There are few things that are more important in our field than helping this group out in a professional career, yes, out in life. What may hurt me the most is the decline in the job opportunities of people with disabilities. Reading the SSB statistics on disabled people at work in the second quarter of this year was depressing. The total was 41 pst. by disabled persons at work. For the population as a whole, the employment rate was 75 pst. The proportion of people with disabilities in work has fallen from 45.3 pst. when our government went off, to 41 pst. now – a decrease of 4,5 pst. The decline has continued despite the fact that the fall has stopped in the rest of the population. Earlier this year, I had a visit to a group of young people with disabilities who showed a film and told me what it's like to be young and disabled in today's society. We heard, among other things: a story about a severely disabled young man who, after countless attempts had been offered a job, but after many months in which he in vain had tried to get the facilities he was entitled to from Nav, missed the job. He was now dissatisfied and was not able to contribute to either society or the state fund in the way he wanted. These are the stories we have to avoid. I figured the Council would refer to the job strategy for young people with disabilities. There are some good elements in the plan, but I believe the bet is too modest and is too late. The decline in the number of people with disabilities in work continues in 2012, despite government strategy. Many of those who fall out of work go into permanent disability. With more proper follow-up, these could have been at work, with all this entailing economic and social. There has been a tendency to start discussing what things are proposed in the State budget – I will not advance that debate because it comes in the next two weeks. But I want to end with a heart attack: I, who is within my first period here on the Stortinget, have always believed that interpellation is an arena for an open and unorthodox exchange across parties, a place you come together because you don't have all the solutions, because you want to find them, and because you think you can think better together. Going into the trench and dunking party arguments in the head of the opposition, who are genuinely wanting a broad debate, leads nowhere, and it helps at least no young person.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e264	If I'm going to take the last speech on the word, I can start by saying that then you should also stop spreading social security problems. I've brought with me a statistics of the young disabled. I'm not going to show it out here, but whoever wants to look at it can see that it's a flat line from 1980. There is no explosion, and the mood that is sought created by discussing the way we do now, suspects I am to be able to cut into the security. We've seen when we've treated the disability, that, for example, The progress party wants to cut the disability benefit for all under 40 years. That is the reality. If you don't know if you ever get to work for the rest of your life, you shouldn't have this security at all. The representative Graham from the Right was up here and spoke as if those who were on disability were not even alive. Disadvantages should be safe and good and so that you can live a good life, but then it is important that we others – and especially politicians – talk about this in such a way that you don't reduce the dignity of people because they're in bad shape. That side of the battle has been very marked by the debate. Then you have to learn the difference between the proportion and the number. The population of Norway is now over five million. Most disabled people are over 60 years old. Those colleges are growing, and they're cheering up with the years. As these are more out of work and need disability benefits. In the case of young people, diagnostic statistics are quite clear; they are serious diagnostics. There are good reasons why someone needs help for a very long time, and those experiences are no reason to envy anyone. Nor is there any reason to envy any security of income when they have the worst and are seriously ill. Many young people are struggling, losing their feet in school and working life. It can be health, care, school or other issues that are the problem. They must be quickly helped and experienced in mastering and safety. This is the responsibility of home, school, child protection, Nav, health care. Young people must experience that what is to help them contributes to the development of abilities, interests and belief in their own strengths and not shrinking. That young people get income so they can live somewhat like others is not a problem, that's good. Congenital disease and mental problems are not cured by removing the possibility of safe income. Many people may need time to recover, and young people may suffer serious injuries that do not appear on the outside. The working line must be based on knowledge, qualification, inclusion and work against discrimination. We have a working life, and we have attitudes in society that make it much more difficult for many of them with somatic or mental health problems to master today's working life. It is like hand in hand for healthy, well-trained people who have had the luck and health on their side, but for those who labor and do not have good health, it creates great insecurity, and you also feel powerless, unwanted and useless. I would warn against the debate that is based on this. It remains to be seen whether the facts in the matter affect the debate, but SV has some very specific suggestions that we are working on in our work programme for the next period. We want all young people under the age of 26 to have a right to school, work or work, and we want to give all young people the right to follow up on Nav. That's not what someone says, that you get a disability benefit, and then you're not in the hub at all, or that the disability benefit system is such that you can never get back to work. It's also wrong. You can combine work and social security, and you can even rest your disability for ten years while trying to work. It is true, however, that they are entitled to little follow-up in action or education. SV wants to work in the next period to ensure that young people on disability benefits have the same right to follow-up from Nav as those on redundancy pay. We think that can be a very important step forward, which can ensure that those who recover health, who come out of a difficult life situation, get the follow-up that allows them to succeed in getting work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e281	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic. Young people are a very complex group, which needs different measures. It is therefore important to clarify, as the interpellant also did, that those who are so sick that they do not have the opportunity to work should be guaranteed good arrangements, so that they can live a good life. But when the proportion of young people is so large, there is a sign that something needs to be done, that more needs to be done. If we're going to get the number of unemployed, we're going to have to have an inclusive working life. We need a better policy to include those who have fallen temporarily out of work and who need help to come back. The Foundation's large life-cycle study shows that every four disability benefits are due to mental disorders. When we also know that 3,500 young people are on the waiting list for child and youth psychiatry in Norway, we understand that this is serious for each of these. Young people must be given priority, and it is urgent. We have introduced a waiting guarantee for young people in psychiatry who are very good, but it is also too long. I wish that young people with mental disorders were given immediate help in mental health. It has to be a goal that we're all reaching for. Research shows that work and activity are good medicine for our mental health. It gives daily routines, social intercourse, meaning in life, income and belonging. Thus, the workplace becomes an extremely important area of prevention and organisation in the context of mental distress and suffering. For those who are out of work, mental illness has previously been thought to have to be treated before any work measures can be started, but according to Erik Falkum, professor of psychiatry at Oslo University Hospital, work is good medicine for many. He is professionally responsible for a project called Job Mastering Follow-up, which uses work actively in the treatment. He has pointed out that the health service underestimates the importance of work in treatment, because treatment is centered around medical and psychological matters and disregards the social factor. Cooperation and integration between treatment services and labour and welfare services are therefore particularly important in helping young people with mental disorders and thus reducing disability statistics. I'm glad that the council said that she wants a closer job here. I've said many times – and I mean it with all my heart – that I think Nav is often blamed for a health service that doesn't work, for a health service where people are in line, for a health service that doesn't manage to catch up with the kids. Children’s and young people’s health care should have been upgraded, so that all young people, on the day they needed it, had access to health care and received early intervention. This is not happening today, because there is often too little capacity at the health centre. We are in many ways very lucky in Norway compared to the rest of Europe, which is struggling with high youth unemployment. We have great financial resources – never have we had more to go with from the political government. It is good, but it also requires wisdom and wisdom. The resources we have received must be used well and inserted where necessary. What's struck me after I got into this committee is that we have a lot of good actions, but it's a conglomerate. My first reaction when I read the proposition and attended hearings in the committee was that there were so many actions. It is said that no one really fully understands all the measures, neither users nor the individual Nav office. That's why we actually need a simplification there. It's a good thing if we can join forces. We're going to propose it in the budget. Finally, social inclusion is important for the identity and development of individuals. Participation secures income and reduces poverty and is crucial for the creation of value in our society. But most of all, it's important for the individual – that's what matters to our work. So all the time, I'm a little surprised at the tone of the interpellation debate. I also think that interpellation debates must be such that you may be allowed to make good efforts, and that we will try to find the way together. I hope the government parties don't think they're actually good enough, that they're good enough, that we don't have any more to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e300	When we have this debate, it is very important that we remember more than one thing: we are discussing a safety net – that is, one thing – but we are also discussing income protection. We're losing sight of the exact amount of income protection. This is not about the ability to participate, the ability to act or the ability to contribute in a society, but it is about whether you have the ability to support yourself with your own income from your own work. You may need the security network behind you very early and actually help you breathe out and work when possible. That was the whole background when we almost managed to come to a settlement on the disability. We were very close to all the parties in the hall saying yes to everything. That means we've been working through and saying something about it being flexible. It should be possible to go in and out: you work when you are good enough and have the safety net when you are not working. It actually has this hall ready to gather around, so we're not as cracking in all areas as it sometimes sounds. Among the things we chose to continue, it was primarily this that it was possible to try – to freeze the social security. Five plus five-- for ten years, you can try it without any discussion considering that this is scary. We made sure that it is not such that you risk losing money or safety by trying to work. There were two keys that were important to get in place. Then we have a job to do -- fortunately, we all agree on that. We can't stop giving people the opportunity to get in if there's anything we can do that can solve it. We are listening intensively to the proposals. SV says we should follow up, that you should have the right to follow up – guess if I listen. The Christian People's Party says that we have to get a health service that talks together – guess if we listen. Not that -- because we actually agree on that -- but I think within the system we have today, there are actually opportunities to do a lot of this. At the largest Nav office in Bergen, they have chosen to employ their own psychologist. They thought that if they were always going to wait for it to fit the rest of the system, which has emergency posts and other groups they're going to take care of, it wasn't certain that it would fit well enough with labour-oriented measures, so the employees themselves. They had him available and used him for youth. It's fully possible in today's system if the system uses the openings that are. In North Hordland, my region, the health centre for young people has chosen to employ their own psychologists in cooperation with high school. The dropout at high school is dropping. It's going down really fast, and fewer young people are going over to the Nav system, who need testing in this. There are obviously possibilities in the system, but one thing we're going to bring with us now is that this is about tripartite cooperation in the world of work. It's about the parties' responsibilities. In fact, I am glad that we were able to ensure that Objective 2 remains in the IA agreement. It was important for all parties. I think it is very gratifying that the NHO now actually takes responsibility and runs the Ringer project in the water, because it is about taking those who have reduced working capacity, directly into the companies and getting them to work. The employer's side, those who are going to open the doors, has said that we do, and we do it in cooperation with the companies. I think that's a very good way to work, because it takes responsibility both ways. We're not going to accept that people get a bill from Nav in the mailbox saying that you get disability benefit, without ever asking for it. We're not going to say it's okay, we're never going to defend it. It's not okay. The system has not been created like that, and it has never been thought to work like that. The signal from this room is that we don't work that way, so we get to find other solutions. In fact, there are relatively few who are disabled in Norway. In Norway, those who are unable to work and provide income have a security of income. Not all the countries we compare with have. In some countries, these people disappear from statistics. There is no room for them, because they have no income. It is not a goal for Norway and will never be a goal for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e318	Thanks to the interpellant for taking up a very important theme. Disadvantages are in themselves heavy on the one it owes, and not least a loss for society. But many have no other options, and these should be taken care of in a good and well-being way – let's say. However, as the interpellation is about, there is reason to ask questions about the increase that young people have seen outside work doors — young people who are in the initial phase of life, who have resources and knowledge that can add great values to themselves and others. These values must be able to take more seriously one as a community, and not least do everything possible to prevent one from getting into a wrong path. Is it so that mastering life’s challenges can easily make you mentally ill or harm you in your muscles and bones, which, in the long run, can lead to disability, or is a mentally properly prepared for work? Nordic research has recently produced a report on just young people and their challenges. In the report with the good words, ‘Don’t let me go!’, many tell about the challenges you face in society, and not least what you can contribute to. Life can be difficult for everyone. For young people, there is often a vulnerability that sees traces, as this report also states. Young people dropping out of school are a recurring problem, and the reasons for this are well-lit in the report. Children and young people are sloppy. They need good growth conditions. But what is it? All of us are different in both personality and life situations, and how the individual fits into that life and life phase. One must take seriously that the basic reasons why young people drop out of further education or working life are the experiences they experience in the elementary school and in their upbringing. It may be a difficult family life, loneliness, individual experiences with other adults, bullying, being overlooked or not being taken care of in a way that is directed towards one as an individual. It is therefore important to take action at the earliest possible stage of life. Missing support and contact are particularly critical in the youth sphere. The study concludes that a person’s experience in a vulnerable youth is easily passed on through further education, in meeting with the workplace and with Nav. In the evening post of November 8 this year, one can read that State Council Kristin Halvorsen says the best solution to these challenges is more teachers. But is it? I don't think that alone is the solution to these challenges. First of all, such debates are important today, in order to see more, talk about it and get all those who can contribute on the track. In fact, we all have a responsibility – family, municipalities, state, Nav, organizations and various other partners. I also believe that we must involve other actors in kindergartens, elementary schools, further education and Nav. I'm just talking to one who's been working out for a child protection educator. She felt that with her knowledge she could contribute a lot to both kindergarten and school. As she said, she came in with new eyes and observed the kids for inclusion, interaction with the adults and the other children, and was not least curious about the different situations that could arise. Why was a child alone? Why was the same student the last time out of the classroom every day? Why did the same student get debt for something that actually included more? Several such questions she asked herself every day. It turned out that in most such situations, there was something behind that man — challenges that were difficult to talk about, challenges that not a pedagogue in a kindergarten or the school teacher could have time to find out. The ability to use other resources for everyone's best interests needs to be taken seriously and out of life. The party of progress is engrossed by a lack of society and also in a phase of life where the beginning actually begins at birth. At the same time, a young person needs to use more, both in conveying knowledge and using tore to speak from it, and, not least, in making arrangements for it to be a follow-up in the different forums where children and young people are. At the same time, a good incentive must be used so that the different actors dare to think new and not least try different solutions. One may need to consider having a separate youth department on the Nav, where competence and genuine interest in youth must be the governing force. The counselor in the school is another moment that should have been looking at with new eyes. It's especially that there are teachers who have the greatest competence. To provide advice in a situation where many young people do not know what they want, you need to put all the skills you can. The exact competence will be wrong. Besides, you might want to think a little bit more about this, and then put this consulting service out to professionals, so that the counselors at the schools can be teachers again. The party of progress believes that children and young people need safe and stable frameworks, but at the same time they need freedom when it comes to the individual. Being seen, being heard, and getting help at the earliest possible time, is crucial to counteract a future disability of youth. Finally, the evolving society of which we are part is becoming more and more knowledgeable. There are more and more ways of treating people in terms of technology, treatment and medicine. Therefore, it must never be possible for a non-regular person to assess those who have fallen victim, to look at their ‘health barometers’ and to assess whether they can return to work and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e348	It is worrying in itself that young people become disabled. But it's like this -- and it hasn't changed over time -- that some of us simply don't have the ability to participate in a normal working life. After all, the reason we have a disability is just to ensure the basis of life for those who can't earn their lives through income-generating work. The right-wing suspicion is, therefore, that some young people go out of work because we give them up, that the welfare society — in a comfortable way — fails to help those who need it. Understood: Many of those who today become ill should not be. Now the representative Røe Isaksen and I have different starting points for a debate on disability. I believe that there are good reasons why some people get pregnant — even at a young age. Red Isaac focuses on what I would call ‘social disability’. He later believed that some simply slumbered into disability, and that therefore there had to be greater demands for young people, in order to prevent the system from expeding them into a lasting social security. Let me therefore remind you that it is not possible to be disabled without it being well documented that the ability to work is gone, and then of course we have to make sure that those who cannot work still have a basis for living. The quality of the welfare society can, in my opinion, be measured by the ability to care for people who, for various reasons, are unable to work. No one has to have a bad conscience to be lazy. Rather, the Community's poor conscience should relate to making sure that those who do not have an ordinary job to go to have a meaningful life. I agree with the interpellant in one thing: we must not lock people into a lifelong social security life. There are, in fact, some examples of people who want to get back to work, meet closed doors, and there we have a big challenge. That is why we have adopted a malpractice reform that makes it easier to commute between social security and work. But then we must also have a working life that is capable of accepting them — including those who do not have the full ability to work, but who still need the social community that the job can provide. We have not done enough here, which is documented in a recent study by the Institute of Labour Research, which states that we need several thousand new jobs in what is called'screen business' in order to meet the needs that exist out there in the market. There, in my opinion, we have the big challenge in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e359	Thank you for one if not very good debate, so at least a debate! That's the way it is when it comes to election fighting, that there's going to be more between the good debates. I just want to establish two things, which are very important to say. One is – and I just want to repeat it – that if you are too sick to work, you should not work, and then you should not be ashamed to use the common safety net that we have built up. I also have a fundamental disagreement with the rich and workers' party members from the West who believe that eating too much potato gold is unhealthy. It is not the case that today’s young people become illiterate because they have eaten too much potato gold. That's wrong. I agree with the representative of Gullvåg, and I believe I said it very clearly. Some people are from nature – and we do not adopt nature politically – so that they cannot reasonably be required to go to work. Yeah, that's exactly why what we're discussing is the so-called social cases, that's what we can do about. For approx. One third — it can never be determined with certainty how many there are — of those who are young disabled, is the complex complex causal relationship, which is about high school dropouts, poor family backgrounds, lack of access to professional life in the past, the fact that they have gone too long passively into the system, and that they have somehow not received follow-up and have developed easier mental diagnosis. That is what we can do about politics, and that is what this debate should be about. I want to boast to the representative Karin Andersen. She airs two issues, and she brings sketches to solutions, which I also think are good. It's e.g. a problem of losing the right to further education so quickly and so rapidly, and that many municipalities do not give priority to this – it is easier to get the opportunity to take action than to get the real education you need. I also think such a «right to follow-up» is a good idea. That's exactly what we're talking about, something between giving people up completely, that they never have contact with Nav again – other than the check on money – and saying that you almost have to go in every three years to try out a medical diagnosis. But all in all, I think this debate shows a tired government. It shows three red-green lots that are worn out, which lack implementation power, which have no new ideas, which have no solutions, and therefore spend all their time shooting at the opposition. Is there one thing we know, which is almost a political law of nature, is that the fewer solutions you have yourself, the more time you have to use to blacken others and the opposition. That's what we're looking at now – on a case-by-case basis: we see a government that has no power, which has given up solving the problems, a government council that has spent the last two months attacking the opposition, but has not put any major issues on the agenda. We should put an end to that. So we need an implementing force. In this field, we need new ideas and better solutions, and I think we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e372	This has been an important discussion. In particular, I would like to highlight the contribution to Laila Davøy, where she is concerned about something essential, namely that we in Norway have seen too much of mental illness as a reason for being sick over a long period of time, and also as a reason for disability. We know that work is good medicine. We also receive reports from the OECD that we need to change the practice in Norway. So then the cooperation between Nav and the health care system is absolutely crucial, and it is also important that many in the health care system view work as part of the treatment. Laila Marie Reiertsen was also involved with her own youth contacts at the Nav offices. It is also very important, because there are many young people who have fallen out of work, and they find it difficult to go on the same course as 50-year-olds, they have completely different needs. That is why this is also an important effort in the state budget that we are presenting to the Stortinget, with a new and strengthened youth guarantee, with more follow-up at the individual level of young people who have fallen out of work. Then I also think Karin Andersen makes an interesting suggestion, that we should have more follow-up also of those who are disabled. So the question is, are we good enough today? And then my answer is no, but we're proposing a lot of new measures. We get more action places for those with reduced working capacity. We get wages and salaries for those who want to accept those with disabilities in their working life. We have a new youth guarantee, New GIV – there are many offensive measures to do something to reduce the number of disabled people. But what I think is a bit special about Right-wing discussion, and in particular the representative Sylvi Grahams – almost – indignant about the political discussion here – is that in every possible context, the Right presents the figures that put the welfare state in a bad light. They never show the figures that show that the proportion of young people with disabilities is stable, that the number of young people with disabilities is falling. No, you draw instead a picture of a far too rough welfare state. Therefore, I think it is important that we get a factual discussion on these questions, and I can only say to the representative, Røe Isaksen that I will continue to meet the Storting with a completed script. I believe that it is to take the Storting seriously that you get a professional discussion on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e385	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e401	Now this morning, in fact, maybe right now, there's pretty fresh negotiations between Canal Digital, by Telenor, and TV 2. The question is whether the parties will be brought to justice. In that case, Telenor will sue TV 2 and the state on the question that we probably predicted when we discussed the TV 2 agreement a few years ago, namely that giving a good and not having a clear address for the bill is often a demanding starting point. I hope we land this case in a good way. I believe the TV 2 agreement was an important and proper handle and support the government in it. But there's a landscape outside this agreement, the surrounding landscape that's about how television is distributed, and there's a lot of confusion. Many of the issues involved in this case between Canal Digital and TV 2 illustrate this in a good way. The cable TV market must have as its starting point that it gives consumers – i.e. TV viewers – the best possible offer. This requires a sustainable cable industry and good content providers, and they must be organised in a functioning market that ensures the choice of both the product and the suppliers they want. A good content offer to TV viewers is ensured by having powerful units on the international market, and it is ensured by having a good innovative content industry in Norway. Norwegian production must ensure that we have a good cultural home. It represents important industrial policy – media content and the entertainment industry is one of the world’s most growing industries, it is also worth bringing along – and not least: Norwegian production is highly valued by viewers. Today this is slowed by the cable companies’ operating concepts, where the content and transport are sold as a single subscription. This opens the way for the cable owner to supply himself with some of the valuables provided by the content provider. So the money goes partly to the person who owns the cable and stacks the package, not just to the person who produces the contents. There is also one of the core points in today's case: who is going to be left with profit, and where is the point of division between content and transport? Right-wing policy objectives are to stimulate content providers through the widest possible availability to the market, i.e. to viewers, and thereby contribute to growth and innovation. This means a goal of maximum transparency and network neutral solutions. The government's policy to strengthen this, if any, is not easily understood. At the same time, TV viewers also rely on a good cable network which, wherever possible, has a high level of operational safety and has the best possible technological quality. Cable network deployment is expensive and today consumers want fibre network solutions for a number of purposes. This is a development of a modern society dependent on, and the fact that we are far ahead means an important competitive advantage for Norway as a nation. This means that we need to have a cable industry with good profitability, long-term framework conditions and with a sufficient number of actors to develop a functioning market. This has been quite successful in Norway. We have to say that we are now usable covered, but the market demands greater capacity and stronger expansion in the years to come. The right starting point is that the cable network industry should concentrate primarily on technological solutions and products related to the transport of services, the Internet, telephony and television, and on all the services we have not yet come up with. The third assumption, in addition to content and transport, is that we have to have a functioning market, i.e. competition, and that customers have a free choice of services. In the case of the free choice of services, the package offers are connected to subscriptions, a restriction on the right will be removed. Developments are going our way, in the sense that suppliers are now increasingly competing for freedom of choice within their own package, but this is only half a win. As long as the consumer does not get out of the package and can also pick up offers from other suppliers, we are not in target. We have the example in our case today, where TV 2 Zebra will not be available to Canal Digital's viewers if Canal Digital's setup is implemented. At the moment, we in Stortinget cannot enjoy the TV 2 news channel, which has been taken off in the middle of these negotiations – perhaps not the world's most pleasant greeting to consumers and TV viewers. With regard to the competitive situation, i.e. the real choice of consumers between cable suppliers, this is a demanding chapter. As well as the Consumer Council as the Consumer Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out major shortcomings. The packages, and not least the ‘bundling’, i.e. combination solutions between telephony, the Internet and TV do this inconspicuously and create high thresholds for the general public in terms of switching suppliers. This has been the subject here several times in Stortinget, and the government put down the Sonneland Committee after a long time, so a sample under the Consumer Ombudsman, both of whom had this as a topic. An analysis was to be made of the behaviour of television distribution and the position of consumers in that market. Both of them delivered their settings a long time ago, without any of the proposals that were made being followed. It is particularly disappointing that the government has made it clear that the Sønneland Committee's proposal for a consumer portal does not come about – allegedly because it is too complicated. Consumer authorities have created good consumer portals in other areas. The right starting point is that at least one should have tried such a portal, or carried out a pilot, before sending the matter to the trash. The right also notes that none of the other proposals made by these two expert committees have been taken into account. Among other things, the Sønneland Committee proposes to systematically work on the introduction of a single standard to ensure open solutions for the receipt of Internet-based offers. The proposal is based on working towards an open standardised technology and access for content providers under objective and non-discriminatory conditions. The creation of a group of parties that has the task of following competition in the TV market was also an idea one should reflect on. The development is going in the right direction. Cable owners provide greater freedom of choice and the Post and Telecommunications Authority has recently opened Telenor’s fibre network to other operators. So there are positive signs in development, and I look forward to hearing the views of the Council of State on these issues. In summary, I will still try to address some specific issues that I hope the Council of State will address: Firstly, the question of whether the government believes there is a need to strengthen the position of consumers, i.e. TV viewers, in the choice of supplier. Does the government agree with the Consumer Council and Consumer Ombudsman that this is so complicated that competition really does not work? If so, what does the government think to do with that matter? I refer then to the proposal of the Sønneland Committee, which seems so far to be put in the drawer. Secondly, it would be interesting to hear what the government thinks about the blending of cable companies' products, i.e. the combination of the transport of signals and the delivery of content, whether there is a good solution in the long term or there is a track that should be worked out. If the latter is the case, the question is how to imagine a long-term policy that will give us some answers and some guidelines for this. There are no short-term good solutions that provide a consistent recipe, but it's still a point to look at the long-term perspective. A recent issue relates to the fact that the Post and Telecommunications Authority has joined Telenor, where fibre networks are opened to other suppliers. That's a good idea. The question is why not also other regional actors, type Altibox, should also open their networks. They are also dominant actors in their regional contexts. Then I look forward to a good debate on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e452	The interpellant has asked for an answer to how I want to ensure good innovation in the digital sector and to preserve the position of consumers in this market. It's a very complex problem. In addition to the media policy, the issue lies in the responsibility of several other government councils. Among other things, the theme is consumer policy, ICT policy, business policy and the regulation of electronic communications. Since the interpellation is right for me, I will essentially answer for the tools that I myself have. The interpellant refers to the dispute between TV 2 and Canal Digital Cable TV. The dispute is about how much Canal Digital will pay for TV 2 to transmit TV 2's channels in cable. When the parties, like here, are not present, they can send the matter to the Cable Dispute Subject. This name is created by the Ministry of Culture, but acts independently from the Ministry. The cable dispute subject has dealt with this matter, and the one party has not failed to accept the denominator's decision. The consumer is an innocent third party in the matter. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Canal Digital Kabel TV has dragged the State of the Ministry of Culture into the dispute. The claim is that the decision of the Cable Dispute Subject is invalid. This means that the department is a party to Saga. I understand that the negotiations have gone a long way. Today, the Ministry will contact the parties to obtain a settlement, and to the extent that the Ministry of Culture can contribute to a solution, with regard to the many consumers that are bordered, we would like to do so. The interpellant refers to the Sonneland Selection. This working group was set down by the Ministry in 2009. The working group would consider measures that could increase the choice and lack of choice for TV viewers. The main question they should be looking at was whether the providers of payment television should be required to provide single channels. In their assessments, the working groups stressed that viewers are happy with their offers. The working group also showed that technological developments will lead to more long-term inadequacy and freedom of choice. In addition, the group pointed out that a requirement to provide channels individually would also be a form of price regulation. It would be complicated to do. A group of working parties endorsed these assessments and the Ministry joined the group’s conclusion in the 2013 budget proposal. The working group delivered its report a little under two years ago. I think we're already seeing a lot of signs that the group's opinion of the technological developments and the effects it would have on many of its choices is striking. Today, audiences can choose from many alternative media platforms: Cable and satellite televisions have been available for decades. Television over fibre has given additional competition to many places. The digital television groundnet was completed in November 2008. 98 pst. by households, signals can be received from this network. The Ministry of Renewal has recently concluded an agreement on the broadband coverage in Norway. The distribution shows that 85 pst. the population may choose from at least three providers delivering rapidities above 4 megabits per. seconds. The expansion of broadband combined with a large number of new providers of electricity services means that the public has in practice got a television platform more. The competition on the offer side will discriminate against the established operators. This will lead to an increase in individual choice. Market developments are moving towards more flexible package solutions, smaller packages and single channel and application selection. Innovation and increasing competition contribute to increased content and opinion gaps. At the same time, it strengthens the position of consumers. A number of actors now offer television streamed via broadband, and several new entrants are about to establish themselves in the Norwegian market. Young people have less established driving habits and are faster to use new technologies. In the 15–29 age group, according to the TNS gallup 41 pst. connect the television set to the Internet. Which one uses the television set might vary a lot. But many people benefit from online electricity services in the stova. The threshold for using such services is probably also low. The working group proposed two concrete actions: a TV portal that can provide information on market supply and a permanent group of partners that can follow competition and technological developments in the market. The Ministry has done well for how these proposals will be followed up in the 2013 budget proposal. We do not go on with the workgroup's proposal to create a TV portal. It would be necessary to develop a TV portal to provide consumers with accurate and useful information on market supply. In addition, the report of the Working Party shows that two out of three are satisfied with the television they have. Furthermore, only 1 pst was declared. that missing information was the reason they had not changed the provider. This points to the fact that the cost of operating a portal will hardly correspond to the benefits. The Ministry also does not see the need for a permanent group of parties. Public authorities such as the Post and Telecommunications Authority and the Media Authority are responsible for following up these areas. I think it's better to call public and private actors as needed to discuss competition and technological developments in the market. Like the interpellant, I'm busy with digital innovation and consumers' interests. The media markets are characterised by a high rate of innovation. The expansion of broadband means that almost all households who want it can receive television content from an increasing number of providers. Increased competition has a disciplining effect on providers. They depend on happy customers. We now see Norwegian broadcasters competing from new categories of actors such as Netflix and HBO and distributors competing from other distribution platforms. The winners in this are the audience, which enjoys an increasingly wide range of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e491	I guess it wasn't that surprising in the articles of the Council of State. I think it's a pity that the government is so obviously calming down that everything is good, when we see that there's actually a need to address at least some important main issues, which I was talking about initially. With regard to the position of consumers, there are, to put it mildly, rather different perceptions of this. There, the Council of State considered that there was no strong consumer need to find out how to replace the supplier. It is probably a rather different impression than that of the Consumer Council and the Consumer Ombudsman. There have been very clear demands on the consumer side that the threshold for changing suppliers is high, simply because ‘bundling’, i.e. the combination of services and e.g. The contractual system related to housing laws and other stories back in time for cable networks makes it complicated to replace. So you have consumer portals in banking, in insurance, in financial matters, and then it would be so much more complicated to do it in the area we are now discussing. It's hard to understand. The other thing that I had hoped to get a little clearer is the question of whether you think that in the future there will be a slightly clearer division of work between producing content and transporting the content, that is, the concept that many of today's cable suppliers – not to say almost all cable suppliers – have, namely that they actually sell a content and then you get the transport back on. That makes you get a skewed input into this. The discussion we're now up in, literally, with Canal Digital, is about this. What price is to be paid, and what is the actual price you pay for? In the long term, it is important for the Norwegian content industry that they do not actually get caught, where they are running for the money that they legitimately deserved to produce the content. You have to have a cable regime that is as neutral as possible, as open as possible, and that has the greatest possible freedom of choice. That is what will have an innovative effect on the market. It's true, as the Council of State says, that evolution is going that way. But there is no grip in the political system or in the public regime that regulates this, which actually thrusts out the course and makes it easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e504	Like the representative Thommessen, I'm busy with the needs of consumers. There was also some of the reasoning behind that a put down a selection like the Sonneland selection. As their work showed, there is no reference point to the assumption that the need for consumers is not adequately addressed as the situation is and is likely to develop further. I also register to some extent of wonder that it is the representative Thommess who formulates himself as he does when it concerns this issue. It is traditionally not a conservative position that an active State intervention is needed in order for the market to function in the best possible way. Once we have evaluated the proposals from, for example: The Sonneland Selection and the basis for their assessment, it has been our opinion that the proposals will lead to poor use of public money and increase bureaucracy. Our government believes that the market is a bad gentleman, but a distinguished server, and that this is a matter where it turns out that the market works for the best of consumers. In that case, there is a different need for state intervention. Then the representative takes up the relationship between content and transport. To that I would say that it is expensive to roll out cable, not least it is expensive to roll out fiber. He who tries to do it without offering attractive content will not meet the audience and their consumers want, and will therefore have no basis for his efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e513	I don't know if I'm going to congratulate the interpellant, or if I'm just going to find out that there's a very special 'timing' on this interpellant. We know that today, early on, the news – which has also been mentioned both by the interpellant and by the Council of State – is that half a million TV subscribers have now lost access to the TV 2 News Channel and the TV 2 Film Channel. It illustrates how vulnerable television viewers are in a distribution market, and that is exactly what is at the heart of the interpellation. Suffering from a significant increase in options, there are many consumers who still do not have the opportunity to move out of such a situation, and not least the acute situation that has arisen in those days. Especially if you live in a housing camp, it'll take you a while to get out of it. The Right-Olemic Thommessen raises in the interpellation questions about how we can guarantee consumers' rights in a good way in such a television market. I believe that in the case that has occurred today, not least in view of TV 2, we have been looking forward in Stortinget, and the Council of State has been foresaw and made the necessary regulations. When the State entered into a new agreement with TV 2 in 2009, a regulation was also made on the distribution of the cable network. We know that in December 2010, there was a royal resolution which adopted a regulatory amendment to Section 4-2 of the Broadcasting Act, which said: «The cable owner shall also be obliged, under market conditions, to communicate the broadcasts to the broadcasts designated by the authorities for the purposes of special public interest.»; In order to ensure that the regulation was complied with, the State has established its own institution to handle disputes relating to the remuneration for distribution in the cable network, namely cable dispute subject. So the mechanism for solving a conflict like this has made the government rules for it. But I notice that these rules of the game are not being respected, and we actually expected that when these rules came into place. In Norway, we actually have the tradition that we follow laws and regulations no matter how disagreed with them. Obviously, it is a problem that these rules and regulations are not being followed, but the biggest problem is the customers, and we have to make sure that customers get the TV they want. But it is also important here that the parties now show social responsibility, and I sincerely hope that the parties to this conflict now sit at the negotiating table again – it has also been signalled by the Council of State that it will take an initiative – and that good solutions are found for Norwegian TV viewers. This interpellation also illustrates that the media industry is marked by rapid and extensive changes, most of them based on technological developments. Digital technology has made it both cheaper and easier to produce and distribute media content across multiple media platforms, and we know that the deployment of broadband connectivity has given us a fantastic quality and capacity, making the Internet more a platform both for television content and for other advanced media services. I'm just thinking, who would have thought five years ago that the smartphone would be such an important media provider for us that we're now using it to both read online newspapers and watch movies and newscasts? It actually tells us that every time we have this debate in Stortinget, we're going to be hanging a little bit behind, because we kind of don't have the imagination to imagine what our media everyday is actually going to look like in just a short time. That is why I very much agree with the assessments made by the Council of State, both in the case of the Sonneland Committee, and in the case of putting down a party sample, because consumers already have a good offer here. The market regulates it well, but there are also some pillars for how to regulate the market through both the Broadcasting Act, the Media Authority and the Post and Telecommunications Authority, so that we will also provide customers with a good TV and media offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e531	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important matter, and he really meets well in relation to today's reality. How important this discussion about TV signals is, when we look around the world, I don't know, but I'm sorry that the TV 2 channels are getting away from customers. It's a development that's not good. The impression I've got from the press is that there's a hate relationship between the two big players in Media-Norway, and it doesn't seem very professional. We cannot have it so that a large distributor, who is a multi-site monopolist in the cable market, uses his power to turn off the TV broadcasts of one of the channels that has a concession to offer nationwide television. It might seem like Canal Digital and Telenor are showing a power credence to their customers. Canal Digital blames TV 2, TV 2 on Canal Digital, and the viewers get hurt. Telenor says that the company has for a long time tried to negotiate an agreement with TV 2 on the new base package, without reaching a goal. Telenor and Canal Digital experience that TV 2 chooses to punish their customers. Who's gonna get hurt? Yes, it's the viewers. The discrepancy between the distributor and the broadcaster is regrettable. I understand that Canal Digital wants to remake its base package, and that might be a good idea. The principle of freedom of choice is then presented in order to be able to obtain a package adapted to families with children, a package adapted to the single, a package adapted to young people, a package adapted to the elderly – yes: freedom of choice. This must be the future. When we have a digital network, there should be room for adapting these packages. But freedom of choice is important. It is TV 2 that has taken the list and wants all its channels distributed, and I think that is important. But I also find it regrettable that the sister channels disappear, and this is controlled by Canal Digital and Telenor. We here at Stortinget now feel that the News Channel is gone, and there are many more around the country, which can be perceived as censorship. Who's doing this censorship? Well, there are large companies that are governed by the state. We cannot have it so that a large distributor who is a monopolistic in the cable TV market uses its power in this way. We have a government that wants to show the power of action. We have today heard the council say that she wants to summon the parties, and I think that is quite right. The government has a special responsibility here. The government has given TV 2 a concession to be a public broadcaster and to distribute what they produce. The government is also the storehouses of Telenor and has power within the big company, which also distributes the public broadcaster. The government also has a responsibility towards the cable dispute subject, which it has reduced, so here the government has a special responsibility that I think it is now positive that the Council of State takes over and does something with it. The battle between Telenor, Canal Digital and TV 2 goes back several years and seems very stuck. That's why we need a government that goes in and cleans up. The dispute was dealt with in December in the government-appointed cable dispute subject, but the actors do not accept the end and warn that the case can be brought before the court. It seems that if you don't do anything here, you're on your way there. It is good that we in Stortinget no longer discuss whether we are going to have color TV or more channels, or whether we are going to have advertising on TV, but that we are now discussing how it is to be distributed. I hope the Council of State can clear up this conflict on behalf of the viewers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e554	There are many inputs to this debate – also beyond today’s disagreement between TV 2 and Canal Digital. I'd rather look at the possibilities that lie in the digital revolution, because the digital age is over us, and we've all become some sort of digital immigrants here in the hall. Today's children and young people, on the other hand, are digitally indigenous. They expect a development in the digital field that none of us would dream of. The innovation in the digital media sector is therefore a highly relevant topic on which the government has been working for a long time. There is a broad consensus that future innovation and competition in the market will be driven by broadband television content. Norway is well located, broadband policy has been based mainly on a market-based and technology-neutral approach over the past 10 years. One important factor for television viewers to benefit from Internet-based television services is the development of high-capacity broadband. The authorities have entrusted operators with the responsibility of ensuring maximum commercial coverage. It has been crucial for the broad coverage we have achieved in relatively few years. If the cable networks are required to open up to competing operators, there is a risk that the development of high-capacity broadband via the cable networks will become less attractive. In some areas it has been too expensive to build on a commercial basis. Therefore, in the period 2006-2010, it is granted at the lower edge of 1 billion national kronor for broadband purposes. These funds have contributed to the provision of a broadband offer to over 100 000 people who would otherwise be unlikely to be offered. I have not succeeded in finding a similar commitment to the Right's proposal for a State budget, which may indicate that the interpellant's own party is not equally concerned that people should also be able to choose for themselves whether to bring in television through the ground, cable, satellite, fibre or – perhaps primarily in the long term – via the Internet. The focus of the red-green government on digital media has been successful. Norway scores high on almost all benchmarks for digitisation and innovation of infrastructure in Europe. In a report on broadband coverage prepared for FAD, the consultancy agency Nexia concludes that broadband coverage in Norway is likely to continue to increase over the next few years, as a result of government offensive policies in this area. The centre party is concerned that we should have forward-looking broadband solutions. This appears to be a critical infrastructure investment for the nation, whether Norway aims to become a leading knowledge nation and to prevent the emergence of digital class divisions based on geography and social affiliation. This has been taken seriously by the government, and this will continue to be the responsibility of the Centre Party and the Red-Greens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e567	I also want to start by thanking the interpellant for lifting an important topic. I understand that many people are amazed that the topic is topical, but it is actually perceived as quite topical for consumers out there – not only today, but also many other days. It's obviously hard for the government to understand what the problem is, so I'm going to symbolize it with the following little, true story from my mother. My mom's 81. She doesn't have broadband, but she has a TV – a TV she watches a lot, at least when it's news. She only has Canal Digital on it that she can choose. She has chosen the following important channels: NRK1, NRK2, TV 2 and the News channel. That's the four she wants – dot finals. She doesn't want any more – despite the daughter's wish for more when she's visiting. She pays a fixed sum for that. One day a young man called and offered her many more channels for a lower price than what she paid for the channels she already had. My mother politely said no, but asked to get the lower price on the fewer channels she already had – something that was rudely rejected. If you wanted the package, you had to have the whole package, otherwise you had to pay more. This symbolizes what the problem is. The problem here is that customers have no power whatsoever. It is clear that the Workers' Party has learned a fine mantra that the market is not a good master, but a good servant. I agree with that. But as a liberal, I think you should have an active state to get to a balanced market. Because if someone has too much power in a market, the market doesn't work. If it is that consumers no longer have power in a market, yes, then the market does not work. If that's how my mother has nothing to do with, when she wants to pay a lower price for fewer channels than she needs for more channels, then there is something fundamentally wrong with the whole market system. I agree with the government when it says that we politicians are bad at choosing the technological solutions for the future. Of course! But that does not mean that we should not ensure that the market actually works and that it works in a good way – even for individual citizens. The reason why we have a big broadband expansion is because we have active consumers, who actually want to have it into their houses, and who pay to get it into their houses. It is not that we wake up one day and suddenly have a massive broadband expansion due to the government – something that we did not know we wanted at all. This is because Norwegian businesses and Norwegian consumers demand it. And if we're going to have a functioning, good market also in terms of content page offers, we have to make sure that those market mechanisms work. I don't think the government is doing that today. And I'm afraid that very many people experience that they get bad deals at bad prices and get little power over what they offer, because we don't have any mechanisms that make sure that consumers have some power in this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e580	The council was amazed that the Right took up this matter, because it was not thought we were looking for so many regulations. She's misunderstood if she thinks this is a call for regulation. No, this is a cry about what the representative Skei Grande was about, the conditions for having a functioning market. Broadband has been expanded piece by piece and shared with affordable effort from the builders. It is understandable that you have had to work with different types of business concepts in order to get this up. But this expansion that's piece by piece and division, it's not sure that gives the best input to what must be the long-term goals. What is at least the right starting point for a long-term goal is that we have a vision of a well-developed broadband system, which is as open as possible and which has the highest possible network neutrality in itself, so that users can choose freely – both for consumption and in innovation contexts. The innovative power that will be given to the content industry if there is greater transparency in this system is significant. So young people have been mentioned, and then I want to ask, what do you think young people would want in this? Well, young people just want a good choice. They would just like not to be locked in one supplier's package, but to be able to work from the editor's office to the editor's office. It's not that the content disappears because if you're not the owner of the content. So quite concrete: I would like to remind you that the Sønneland Committee also gave a clear signal in this direction, that is, pointing to the need for standardised solutions and free access for content providers under objective and non-discriminatory conditions, which are just about how to design more open-ended solutions. That's also the Right Thought. So to the consumer portal. I still can't understand that it's going to be so hard to do. Maybe the youngest users aren't so dependent on it. But I think that the mother of Trine Skei Grande and quite a few with her would actually be very dependent on having such a scheme. So at the end of the party-consolidated sample: all media policy experience shows that we are behind in development because our system is too slow. We need to think about how this works, and once again, the government is unable to come up with new grips and new ideas and solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e594	Thank you for the debate. I understand Ib Thomsen's commitment to consumers. It was clearly expressed also in his articles when he described the conflict between Canal Digital and TV 2. I just want to say that I don't support all the characteristics that have been given. My Ministry today wants to contact the parties for status information – if progress is possible. And to the extent that we can contribute to a solution – for the sake of consumers – we would like to do so. Step Skei Grande had several things in his post. Among other things, I understood the post so that Skei Grande is of the opinion that the broadband coverage is totally commercial. That's partly correct. We have largely entrusted the providers with the greatest possible commercial coverage. In some areas it has been too expensive to expand commercially, and therefore, in the period 2006–2010, the country has opened up at the base of 1 billion. kr for broadband purposes. There are funds that have contributed to the fact that over 100,000 people, who would probably not have been offered, have received a broadband offer. It is a policy that has contributed to Norway’s high level of almost all benchmarks for digitisation and innovation of infrastructure in Europe. So it's part of the points that has been raised by the representative Olemic Thommessen. Today, significant amounts are invested in new fibre networks, and it is important to maintain investment incentives. We have a functioning system for regulating strong market position in electronic communications networks. It is the Post and Telecommunications Authority that regulates the markets for electronic communications services according to the rules of Ecom-lova. Post and telecommunications supervision, after a thorough assessment of competition in a market, may impose specific obligations on operators with strong market power. For example, Post and Telecommunications may require a strong market participant to provide competitors with access to their own networks under given conditions. An example of this is Telenor, which, since 2009, has been required, in short, to allow other broadband providers access to the copper access network under more specific conditions. The postal and telecommunications authorities have recently notified a decision which will impose on Telenor the corresponding obligations also on the fibre network. The postal and telecommunications authorities and the Ministry of Transport have previously argued that there is competition at the level of the final user between Canal Digital and Get, and the conclusion was therefore that there is no need to open cable networks. People's ability to choose the telecommunications distributor they're going to benefit from has never been greater than today – most people can choose whether to take television through the ground, cable, satellite or fiber. In addition, we see that television is coming too full over the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e605	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e621	Before the welfare state, before Nav, before health enterprises and community health services, the family. The kids need adults who take responsibility. Over the centuries, or rather millennia, marriage has been a basis for these communities and served as a framework for reproduction and growth – not because all young people are born within marriage, either before or now, but because there has been the social system, the provision of society, and a norm for commitment between adult families. The decision on joint marriage law as discussed by the Stortinget in June 2008 included known changes to the Marriage Act, the Biotechnology Act, the Adoption Act and the Partnership Act. As far as marriage is concerned, there were in principle two different starting points. Everyone agreed that all couples should be guaranteed the possibility of legal arrangements by either partnership law or marriage law. The majority’s starting point — to take it first — seemed that marriage is the society’s offer of a legal framework for all adults who are happy with each other. The second perspective is that marriage is an institution that has grown up as a framework for reproduction and child growth. If the first understanding is taken into account, it makes sense to say that opening up equal couples will eliminate discrimination. Then you correct an inconsistency in the law, and otherwise everything becomes the same. If you take the other perspective into account, it's going to be something different. In a short time, it's been four years since the law came into force. Then we can ask: What have been the consequences of changing the law? One of the most visible changes is a remarkable change of pace in the debate on children and parents. Let me give you some examples of that: It took less than a year from the law to take effect until the law's case-rapporteur, Gunn Karin Gjul, who has since also been head of the family committee of Stortinget, said that now he had to have the exclusive right to assisted conception. She believed that such a change in law had to be a consequence of common marriage law. In order to quote the representative Gjul of the VG on 3 December 2009: ‘It is wrong for me that lesbian and heterophilic couples should be entitled to assisted conception, while solstice does not.’ And she goes on to say, ‘I do not think we should have rules that discriminate against a group in relation to others.’ The Workers' Party Group has joined the proposal. The same logic is underpinned when the Workers' Party is now proposing to open up for egg donation. The Labour Party parliamentary leader writes in the VG on 14 September this year: ‘The Working Party considers that the current legislation on assisted fertilisation is discriminatory.’ While the fatherhood of nature may be uncertain, fun has always been unambiguous and sure. This will now change and introduce a multi-dimensional concept of motherhood. So here's the alphabetic principle: if you say a, you have to say b, it can be intuitively tempting, but what you're forgetting is that after b comes c, d and e, and the whole alphabet. This picture, just four years after common marriage law, gives reason to ask the question: Was it such that the law lifted discrimination, or was it just moving a threshold for what is perceived as unfair, from one group to another group? For we are going to take the Labour Party seriously, the decision on common marriage law was not the abolition of discrimination. On the contrary, it was the introduction of new discrimination. When the law was passed, it was an independent point to refuse to investigate the consequences, the consequences that are now referred to as a matter of course. There's still something left of this alphabet. I have not yet mentioned the method of renting surrogate mothers to carry out the child. I don't have to go into detail about the performance that we witnessed here in Stortinget on Wednesday. But here we saw both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health being clear that the government does not know what it thinks about surrogati. The topic is now under investigation by the government. If someone four years ago had suggested that this could be a topic for the next big period, they would be met with cash accusations of terror propaganda. Let me quote Aftenposten's commentator Ingunn Økland who last May wrote a comment based on the surrogate debate. Under the title ‘Children without biology’ she writes the following: ‘The new marriage law has thus contributed to a strong mentality change in Norwegian society, and not just among homosexuals. The law has put a stamp of approval on highly questionable needs and practices. Yes, in the most impossible situations, it is now felt that children should be within reach.» I would like to ask the Council of State: does she recognize the image of the Post-Aften drawing a mentality change under the marriage law, which changes our basic thinking about kids? And Ingunn Økland writes in the same article: ‘For the emergence of new child production is essentially a gigantic experiment, which, in its ideological core, is about to diminish the importance of biological origin in favour of the importance of caregivers. How this experiment will characterize the identity of children is preferable not to talk about, and the caregivers themselves are seeking to create an immobility zone around such existential questions. The crown argument is that the debate can harm the children. But silence shall not last a long time. There are several people who see the lack of coherence in this. One might, for example: quote political editor Hanne Skartveit who, on 19 December 2009 in the VG, points out the obvious lack of majority views: ‘Red-green politicians believe that children do not need a father at all — that is why they will give lonely women the right to artificial conception. At the same time, they believe that father is so important that he has to take part in the maternity leave – for the child’s sake. Self-contradicting and paradoxical. This is what happens when politicians are more concerned with adults than with children.’ Some reason why so many of these aspects of this debate got so little space at the time, but only become more visible now, is the fact that the matter was strongly raised as the final line for discrimination against homosexuals. The right to marry and have children was to be this battle's final victory. It also made a lot of people feel emotional. The historical background here is the fortification of decades and centuries, with shame and humiliation for people with a different lay than the majority. So it's probably right to say that a little too many chose the slightly simplified strategy of trying to put all the disturbing questions and critical voices in the booth called discrimination. In an age of ever more openness and respect for homosexuals, where there was a basis for starting a new era of equivalency, visibility and honesty – and we wanted it – there were instead fronts where many for no reason were placed in the wrong booth. Today, there is well reason to summarise that problem as follows: The struggle for equality, openness and respect for homosexuals has come a long way, but it must continue. However, the years following the marriage law have shown us that areas such as marriage and access to assisted fertilisation are not suitable as campgrounds where there are similarities between equinox and rights to marriage and children. It becomes interesting to hear the Council's reflections on the substance and meaning of marriage today, and on parenting and family. Last year, SV's family-policy spokeswoman Gina Barstad went out and argued for a cohabitation law, when the whole point of the marriage law was to give everyone the opportunity to arrange the relationship legally through marriage. About two years ago, Jonas Gahr Støre, head of the Workers' Party's Inclusion Committee, went out and wanted to ban sibling childhood since it could have consequences for children – not to prohibit siblings from making children, but to prohibit them from marrying. Marriage had suddenly again become an institution for the encroachment of biological parenthood by society. You could boast about the lack of coherence in the messages from the Workers' Party regarding marriage, but it's rather an illustration of how fundamental this is in everyone's consciousness. I therefore hope the Council of State can reflect a little on how she views the importance and content of marriage today. If there is no connection between marriage and biological parenthood, it might be interesting to hear how we justify the fact that marriage is reserved for two persons, and the prohibition of marriage between close relatives, for example. What is the understanding of the concepts of fun and fatherhood? How does the Council of State mean that we as a society should provide a clear framework of care for young people and responsibility for young people? How are we going to take care of kids as subjects and not objects, with unique self-esteem and integrity?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e696	The short answer to the question from the representative, Håbrek, is that the consequence of the changes in the marriage law is that more people are allowed to marry. Or to say it as one of those who got engaged on my Facebook page last night: the consequence was at least that I got married. In addition, there is a consequence that more children are allowed to grow up in a safe environment and are not discriminated against, and that more children are also getting more proud parents because they do not get to be discriminated against. Then the representative asked Håbreek if I knew again in the description that there has been a change of mind when it comes to looking at children. Yes, I recognize that there has been a change in mentality. There has been a strong change in the perception of children. There's simply become a greater room for diversity in children. That's why I want to start by saying that in the case of common marriage law, I only have good feelings. I remember it as if it were yesterday, when I was sitting in this room as a staging representative and we adopted common marriage law. I am touched that day when I think of that applause – actually illegal applause – that came spontaneously from the gallery of people who have experienced for decades what it has been like to be discriminated against, what it has been like to be a different rank and even a ‘prohibited’ citizen. So I'm glad – and proud – that I was there when our marriage law changed as a result of decisions in this room, and we decided that we should no longer make a difference between people on the basis of sexual orientation. The changes in the marriage law in 2008 sent a clear signal that tolerance and respect go beyond sexual orientation, ethnic background and belief. The size said yes that all adult people regardless of sexual orientation should have the same option of marriage if that's what this couple wants. I am also pleased that the representative, in his justification for the question, now says that the case showed broad agreement on the importance of work against discrimination against homosexuals, and on providing the opportunities for a secure legal framework for equal opportunities. Norway was at an early stage in providing a safe framework for cohabitation for like-minded couples. The Partnership Act, which we were given in 1993, was mature to be replaced by the marriage law in 2008. Several countries now have equivalent legislation allowing gay and lesbian couples to marry, and many countries consider introducing such legislation. It is also interesting that some of our neighbouring countries go beyond our legislation on gay and lesbian opportunities for church weddings. In Norway, discrimination continues by the fact that the Norwegian Church does not commit homosexual or lesbian couples. The representative indicates that there is disagreement about the understanding of marriage as an institution, and the representative asks for my assessment of the substance and significance of marriage today. I believe that equality, equal treatment and maritime regulation in the choice of lifelong learning are important values on which marriage law is based. An important reason for marriage can be the desire of many to give each other the great promise. I have also married the same man twice – there was a strong need in the yard to get married. It can be to celebrate love, invite friends and family, etc., or just to get safer settings about life. But just as important is the freedom to choose not to marry, but still live in a life of love. The history of marriage is also a story of the individual's gradual liberation from the family, the collective, the church and the patriarchate. The changes have been directed towards greater maritime regulation, including: as regards the choice of partners and the termination of marriage by divorce. Marriage as an institution and historical developments were carefully explained in the preparatory work for the 2008 changes. Stable living conditions, regardless of civil status and sexual orientation, I also believe are of great importance for the safety of children. In modern times, it is not only marriage that provides the framework for sexuality and protection of child growth. Fortunately, we no longer look at children born outside of marriage as being improper. Most children born in 2011 had parents living together. The principle of the best interests of the child is central to all Norwegian legislation. This principle means that children must be guaranteed legal parents – legal mother and, as far as possible, a legal father, or co-mother. The Children's Act distinguishes between children born in marriage and children born outside marriage as regards the establishment of fatherhood, but the law equates children born in marriage and in cohabitation as regards parental responsibility. The Children’s Act underlines public responsibility for establishing fatherhood or co-motherhood where this does not result from the Father Est rule or recognition. The family pattern, as we know, has changed a lot in recent decades. The family constellations are diverse and often include yours, my and our children. But the important thing is that the children are good, that they are wanted, that the quality of the relationships between children and parents is good. People have children in the strangest ways. Some of the ways we like, some we don't like, some we regulate, some we don't regulate -- but the kids, they come. The need for a secure legal framework and equal treatment for children is important. This principle was also the basis for the introduction of new provisions in particular. the child law resulting from the right of homosexuals to marry and lesbians to assisted conception. In the spring session of the Grand Duchy, parents became, among other things, parents. related to surrogati debated several times in Stortinget. I again stress that the government's principle of equal parenthood and father strategy must, as many people have been involved in, be based on the child's best interests. This must apply regardless of whether it is child care policy, parental leave, adoption or assisted conception. It is not right, as the representative was injured to claim, that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health do not know what they think about surrogati. This government is against surrogati. The reasons for that are several, but I'll mention one of them, which is the consideration of women. It is particularly problematic when setting up surrogati events in countries where there are many poor women, where there is a risk of trafficking in human beings and where health services also have a very low standard. There are also many other good reasons to be opposed — or critical — to surrogati. But the kids are coming, and the kids are gonna be safe. Then the representative showed that in the short time that the new marriage law has existed, several new views and proposals for legislative changes have been launched regarding parenthood and the extension of the offer of assisted fertilisation. As you know, the Biotechnology Act is under evaluation, and it is the Minister of Health who may propose changes to the Stortinget. I'm not going to go into it right now. Statistics from the Statistical Centre show that the number of couples entering marriages is quite stable. A total of more than 23 000 marriages were made in 2011, and of these 259 with like-minded couples. There are a few more female couples than male couples who enter into marriage, and the number is about like the year before. So the changes in the marriage law have not led to an eradicating or a downgrading of marriage as a simple prediction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e732	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is so nice that the Council of State was pleased with the decision she herself made – it is nice when you can be – but I still miss some reflections on the questions I raised in my article. When the Council of State is so pleased, and uses such big words about, the decision that is made is my question: What does the Council of State feel that the law still excludes people from the same offers that she was so happy that someone got access to that time? For example, are the Councils of State. do you agree that the law adopted at the time discriminates against single persons who are not entitled to assisted conception? Equality between all adults is a principle — but there are still restrictions in the marriage law as to who is allowed to marry and what kind of constellations you accept. Is that also discrimination? Then I have to say that it is very gratifying to hear the Council of State make it clear that the government is against surrogati. The fact that the Christian People's Party has finally managed to push forward a clear answer to that question, I take as a great victory, which is important for women, who are important young people and for human dignity. We tried to get the same answer in Stortinget two days ago. We didn't get that. I traveled an interpellation about surrogati in April to the same government council – the Minister for Children – and then we did not get that answer. But I am very pleased with that clarification and take it as a great victory. I thank you again for the answer, but I still feel that there are important questions hanging in the air here, because the new proposals I referred to, which have come up after the adoption of the common marriage law, are justified by common marriage law. That's why it's actually a point to hear: what does the Council of State think are the consequences of that law? What does it mean for the new proposals that come up, which are actually justified by the law, to say that the law that was passed at that time is discriminatory? I would like to have the views of the Council of State on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e743	There are some paradoxes in this debate. One of them is that the Christian People's Party has always been concerned about the position of marriage and that fewer will marry. Then you set up more people to get married, and then it's also a problem. Instead of saying what you really think, which is that marriage should be the framework of women’s and men’s formal events – their love – one begins to involve surrogati and a lot of other discussions that do not belong in the debate, which should be about whether we should have laws that discriminate against homosexuals and lesbians’ ability to marry the one you love. To be honest, this testifies to a certain desperation on the part of the Christian People's Party. One sees that this debate is lost if one assumes that one does not want arrangements in the country that facilitate the love of all people to be equally valuable. Then you lose in a modern Norway – fortunately. Discussions about the best interests of children I would like to go into, but then we have to discuss the best of children. Then we should not discuss common marriage law as such. The consequence of common marriage law is – as I said – that we have now formally ceased to discriminate against homosexuals and lesbians in terms of the possibility of getting married. More children get secure frames around their growth, fewer children are seen as inferior in our country. There's a reason to enjoy, instead of suggesting that if you say a, you just collide into sin. With regard to the question of the Prime Minister and what he has said or not said in the Questionnaire two days ago, it is that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health – all the Councils of State in the Norwegian Government – joins in what I said now, and as I have said all the way, if the representative Håbreek would be willing to listen: we are against surrogati. There's a reason there's no law in Norway. The question raised during the Wednesday Question Time was about a change that would mean that you should not punish people who enter into that kind of event. As far as I know, it was a concrete proposal that initially came from Dagfinn Høybrätten when he was Minister of Health. So that's how we stood for the same line. Then the Prime Minister declared himself incapacitated, but he is not incapacitated on whether he is in favour of or against surrogati.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e754	I want to start by thanking the interpellant Øyvind Hope for the good marketing of the Labour Party's policy. I think it's brilliant that we can be more involved in getting here in the hall how good decisions we make in the Working Party's big group. Marriage law in 2009 I think personally maybe is one of the biggest political victories I've ever had. As an AUF and a youth politician, I have worked with many people to fight to eliminate the discrimination we have suffered from homosexuals and lesbians in this country. It is not without reason that foreign delegations so often come to this house and to this country. It's not just to talk about gender equality. It's also to talk about what we've done to equalize, to make a better, more tolerant and open society. I'm proud of that. I have to say that I am a little startled by the rhetorical Christian People's Party uses in this debate. So it's like the question from the interpellant, that the important debate was when we were going to introduce common marriage law. I'm proud that I'm a member of a party that's been involved in getting society on, which brings debate, and which makes a good decision. Now we see that even the National Assembly of the Progress Party may be able to go into common marriage law, which says that the world is moving forward. The consequence of common marriage law is that more can marry, that we recognize love between man and man, lady and lady and man and lady. I believe that the consequences of the policy of the red-green government in the field of family and gender equality will lead to a better, more open and tolerant society. Interpellanten Øyvind Håbrek is also involved in the discussion on biotechnology. That discussion will give us plenty of opportunity to go into later, when we evaluate the laws. But it's clear that here we're very disagreeable. A broad population survey has been carried out in Norway of people’s attitudes to biotechnology. It turns out quite clearly that when it comes to the view of egg donation, the great plurality in Norway means that it should be equated with sperm donation. I think there are many good arguments for why we should do just that, and I didn't let myself be afraid of the idea of new family forms. I'd rather let myself be frightened by a policy that could lead us to a society that doesn't recognise inequality and differences in the way we're going to possibly. The most important thing for children is to have a good upbringing. It is to have safe and good carers – yes, as the interpellant said: adults who take responsibility. We have a responsibility as a society to help children grow up well, to meet them with respect and tolerance. I'm startled by the rhetorical interpellant using biotechnology. I want to distance myself from words like ‘production of children’. The working party is dedicated to giving more opportunities to try to have children. It's been a long time since we talked about artificial fertilization. Today we are a few that we call it assisted fertilization – we now have a piece on the road. But the Christian People's Party is involved in taking the country back in time if we are to now enter into a rhetoric about the production of children. There I hope that the Christian People's Party will change. We have debated assisted conception in the hall before, and the Christian People's Party has also said that they want to develop the scheme. They also want people to have opportunities. Then I thought that the interpellant at the end of this debate, instead of just focusing on the marketing of the Workers' Party's policy, might also be able to talk a little about its own policy – what solutions the Christian People's Party sees for itself in the future for this group, and also what solutions they will have for a more diverse society. Unfortunately, I believe that what the interpellant said in the beginning, on the contrary, will lead to less deprivation, less tolerance and more discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e771	This is no simple matter. It's probably okay to say to the interpellant: thank you for raising the case. We know that it was one of the things that met with the most commitment, both in the population and in this room, when this matter was up for treatment in the last period. Now this law has worked for over three years, and it is no secret that the Progress Party was against the law when it was introduced in the previous period. We're still against the law. For the Progress Party, it was important to fight against the changes in the marriage law. It's because the Progress Party believes that the best and most stable form of life is marriage between men and women. But then it's like we've also taken over that we're in 2012. The law has now worked for three years, and there are different forms of life out there among people. It's probably almost like this – even though I can almost say ‘complaints’ to the Christian People's Party – that it's unlikely that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party will get a clean majority in this Chamber and can change the law. The law is there now, and then, as politicians, we also have to make the best of it. It was very good to hear the previous speeches, which said that the world is moving on when the Progress Party adopts its programmes. Like all the other parties, we have a programme debate that is going to take place in this party. It's going to happen next year in May. For the time being, we are dealing with the programme that the Progress Party stands for, and what we are elected to. What we were against was the marriage law, and you want an evaluation of that matter. Then I think that in the debate that has been here today, we talk a lot about adults' rights -- what's best for men and women, how to live, what living conditions you should have, and what rights you should have as a man and woman. There is little talk about what rights the child should have – about the best rights of children or children, and about the right of children to know who their mother is and who their father is. It's important to bring in. For the Progress Party, children's rights are one of the most important things we have to take into account in the debate. When we see the evolution that we've seen now, there's a difference between the sides of the policy and the direction we want to go. Then there's a debate that we're going to have on surrogati. I am also very pleased that the Council of State says so clearly that the government is against surrogati. But I'm a little surprised by what the Council of State says, that one of the reasons is that there is no law in Norway. However, when we were able to see the development earlier this week that there is a large increase in surrogate children from India – so far almost 30 children have come to Norway – it is a development that the Progress Party believes we must be observant. It's not a development we want. Although it is illegal in Norway, it is not illegal in some other countries. When the government sends a law to the hearing where they say it should not be punishable to use surrogati, it sends signals to people that this is ok to do abroad. When people who do this, for different reasons, use the Norwegian apparatus to get help to get both passports and papers for these children, it is in a way that we allow it. That's why the Progress Party believes it's worrying, and we need to look at developments in the use of surrogati – and especially from India, where we know that this has become a big store. There is no human right to have children, and then we have to be careful to secure the children who are coming, and what is being done. But we also need to guarantee children's rights, and surrogati is something the Progress Party does not support. I'm also glad that the government is taking a break from it. But it's probably a debate we're going to have in the future. Now the Christian People's Party is raising an interference about the consequences of the marriage law. I think it's too early to see what it is, but I think it's important that at least the parties that have opposed it stand up and say that it's a marriage law that we don't support. It's now like we've lost that case in this room, and then we're going to work on the outside of this room to see what we can do with it. But there will be a debate in the Progress Party as well, it will have to be completely honest, and then we will see where it ends. But for the time being, we are dealing with the party program we've gone to elections, where we believe that the most stable form of life for children to grow up in is a marriage between father and mother, and that it's now important in the future that we talk about children's rights when we talk about such things as this, and not just about what are adults' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e792	At the time of the adoption of the Partnership Act in 1993, the proposal to the Stortinget underlined: ‘Marriage is the basic unit of society and the natural framework around the growth of children. Marriage is in a very special position and does not open up for marriage between gays’ – in 1993. Supporters of the 2008 Marriage Act will certainly replicate that the world has moved on. But if you look at marriage as an institutionalization of the mother/father relationship, and if you look at marriage as the basic and biological prerequisite for child reproduction and the framework for child growth, the world hasn't gone further like that. A couple of the same sex cannot have children together – they can have it separately, but not together. Let me nevertheless state the following: the Christian People's Party is against discrimination against people on the basis of sexual orientation. The Christian People's Party will facilitate commitment and lifelong relationships. The Christian People's Party will regulate the economic and legal aspects of a binding relationship. When we then believe that the term «marriage» should be reserved for the relationship between man and woman, it is precisely because we mean marriage, in addition to affection and fidelity and much more, is also a fundamental and biological prerequisite for reproduction, and that is also the framework for children's growth. That society should choose to say that marriage should be a fundamental institution as a framework for family life and growth, and that society has specific rules for living that contribute to reproduction, as we believe, cannot in any way be described as discriminatory. We believe this, although we also believe that two people of the same sex can be good caregivers – of course. This is what we mean, because we believe that children should have a right to both a mother and a father. That children lose and have lost the right to a mother and a father, is discriminatory, there are many who say with me. The Christian People's Party does not consider marriage to be primarily an institution for all adult people who are happy with each other. If marriage is primarily to be an institution for all adult people who are only happy with each other – and we have to make sure that none of them experience discrimination, please read: for children, because the big debate related to the marriage law was also about children – and one thinks that children are not part of this, it is more demanding to see why you should not allow both egg donation, sperm donation and donation of fertilised eggs and surrogati, to mention something. The debate that has taken place since the adoption of the marriage law by Stortinget in 2008 shows this with full weight. We tried to say something about this at the time. We asked for an impact assessment before treatment in Stortinget. The majority wouldn't have it. The marriage law of 2008 shifted a threshold for what is perceived to be unfair from one group to another. In this way, the 2008 Joint Marriage Law Decision was not the end of discrimination – almost new discrimination under the law. I think of children, but I also think that everyone will have the right to children in our days. As the interpellant, Hope, says if you say a, you get to say b. But then there's c, d, and e and the whole alphabet. We're in this discussion. The discussion that government parties are drawing up here today is as if marriage has nothing to do with children, but it now has a good thing – everyone has talked about children. My point when the Council of State says we shouldn't make a difference between people – no, everyone can get married today – is that there's a difference between children when the state facilitates that not everyone gets a mother and a father. Then I'm very happy, too, because the clear answer to surrogati – it's incredibly good to hear. At the same time, the consultation note from the Ministry of Health, which I have read several times, facilitates surrogati in Norway and abroad. As long as you don't use health professionals as co-workers here, you, I mean, facilitate surrogati in that hearing note. But thank you for your answer, Councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e819	I took part in the 2008 Lagtinget debate when the current marriage law was passed. I pointed out at the time what I thought was inconsistency in the law. Now when I look back at what I said that time, I think it's good. What was going on in the ostrich debate and the bedtime debate? Yes, the term ‘for equality’, ‘give the same rights as couples in heterophilic marriage’. But has it become like this? Has it become equality? Have you been granted the same rights as heterophilic couples? No, I'll say. And why not? Well, because the government didn't add up to a real equality in 2008 at all points. In the debate in 2008, I asked the majority of the population why the government did not call for gay couples to have the same rights as lesbian couples when the gender-neutral marriage law would be passed. Because if there is a principleal idea underpinning the majority on ‘equality’ and ‘same rights’, and not a biological justification for marriage, as it is for the Christian People’s Party, as we asserted at the time and today, and which led us to vote against, there is a logical lack of the lines of reasoning of the government parties in this area. Four years have passed, and the four years have, in my opinion, well documented why the law should have been properly evaluated before it came to Stortinget. The law didn't make a point. This interpellation debate is not a advertising poster for the Labour Party's policy. This inter-pelling debate is an important debate on the position of marriage, but also on the consequences of the new marriage law. We see that evolution goes on. In response to the inter-pellant Christian People's Party, the Council of State is desperate when the inter-pellant draws up issues within the Biotechnology Act, Surrogati etc. But it is such that it was the government that opened up for change, among other things. in the Biotechnology Act as a consequence of the Marriage Act in order to bring things together. Now it's said from batches to egg donation. Yes to egg donation gives a ambiguous concept of motherhood in the law – mother-in-law and mother-in-law. The surrogacy bat will follow in this coolant. Those who say something else, I don't think so. I think the surrogacy bat is the next one to sail up: we want a child, we pay for it, and we take care of it. That someone – a lady, yes, a mother – is needed to carry it forward, unfortunately for payment, is given little or no weight at all. Buying and selling is called in other contexts, but it is demanding for all of us to say it when it comes to a child who is so much wanted. But a mother's body is needed. I am pleased that the Council of State says that ‘government is against surrogati’, and that one of the conditions she develops is the consideration of women, as well as trafficking in human beings and a low standard of health care in many of the countries where these services will be offered. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the SV are in line here, and hopefully in line with the rest of the government, because it is a paradox to the bill that the Minister of Health has sent to the hearing, that surrogati is not law in Norway, but it is law abroad, which we believe should not happen, and that the government and a large, large majority of the political parties in Norway are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e836	This is a debate that gives room for a lot of strong feelings, and that is easily eaten up. Nevertheless, it is important that we respect each other's position. Making a commitment to a life between two people is a norm that is important in our society. There are many forms of life you can choose, it's up to the individual to choose how to live in a life. But what's important for us in the Right is that entering into a mutual, long-term, commitment life as a marriage is to have a special status in society, precisely because it strengthens the family as the foundation of society. This is not a matter where there are absolute truths about what is right and wrong in relation to the adults who choose to live together. But marriage is the institution that best secures children, and it is the most stable framework around the growth of children. I'm happy and proud that we live in a society that says that homophiles are as much worth as heterophiles, and that homophiles should have the same rights as heterophiles. First of all, marriage is about adults' rights, and first and foremost, surrogati is about children's rights. That's why the Right is very concerned about children's rights also in surrogati cases. The children who have come to Norway today must be guaranteed their rights and not be affected by a choice that others have made for them. I'm glad that it also seems to gather a majority on this in the Storting, both temporary law and regulations, so that we secure the children who need it today. Society is changing. Technology gives us new challenges. It is important to maintain values such as mutual respect and tolerance. Like many others, the right is concerned with ensuring children's right to good, stable caregivers, and not least, we need to ensure that children's awareness of their own origins. I am proud that we have a common marriage law in Norway. For the Right, it is important to maintain family and social norms by including more and meeting societal changes in a way that continues to strengthen the role of the family in society and does not weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e853	Now we're talking about a lot at once, because the question here is not about children, donation, surrogati or technology. The debate shall deal with the question of the interpellant travelling, and the question of the interpellant travelling is: ‘How does the Council of State assess the substance of marriage and the meaning of today?’ The question is where the closet should stand, and not least what should be within that marriage. I react very strongly to the discourse in the interpellant's question, for it seems as if he wants to get back to something original. The point of progress is that the most stable form of life is between men and women. Now they've even seen that it's just as easy and difficult to be nice and mean to each other and keep together and walk away from each other either being a homofile or a heterofile. There is something they have said themselves that they should discuss. But when it comes to the Christian People's Party, I must say that I am too honorable in debates. I think the Christian People's Party must be honest about what they actually mean by the question. Does the Christian People's Party mean that marriage is to be between man and woman, and that we change the law so that more people get married, in a way the water has the meaning of marriage and marriage? It seems a little bit like this on the question, and it seems a little bit like this on the debate that the marriage between men and women is the original, the second is kind of a parentheses. Then I wonder if I perceive the Christian People's Party correctly. Does the Christian People's Party mean that the most extreme form of marriage is man and lady having children and a taco together on Fridays? What about those who remain childless? Aren't they properly married? It seems that when I belong to the Christian People's Party here on the pulpit, they think marriage is for man and woman that they should be together and have children. I like to discuss conception, children and family politics very much, but the Christian People's Party must stop pushing morals and kids in front of us when we talk about marriage. They themselves have raised the debate on marriage, and that is the point. Fortunately, it is allowed for homosexuals and heterophiles to marry in Norway today. The struggle to take Norway back to the past has lost the Christian People's Party forever and ever, and well it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e863	Finally, it becomes quite clear in my introduction that the Christian People's Party regards marriage as an arrangement between man and woman, and justifies it. It's clearly anchored in that it's biologically the constellation that can have children. So it's different whether it can be done or not by different constellations, but it justifies that the two forms of life can be regulated differently even though humans are equal, and life can have great value in any case. Then I would like to mention to the representative of Vågslid that I did not use the word ‘child production’ on my own behalf, but I quoted the commentator of the evening post, Ingunn Økland, who used that term when she described a mentality change in Norwegian society under the marriage law. So a comment on the word ‘discrimination’, which has been used here several times. First of all, I would like to say, in the proposition made by the government, marriage between man and woman and the old law is not called discriminatory. It is only used in the political debate. That's interesting. If it is discriminatory, why has the government not provided evidence of this? No, on the contrary, they say that this cannot be called discriminatory, but that they nevertheless agreed to the changes in the law. Secondly, one moment one speaks of a common marriage law as an end to discrimination, while the next moment one argues that the same law is discrimination. You have to make that clear. The Council of State says that surrogati does not belong in the debate. But it was precisely the government itself who created a package, which was about marriage law and the right to assisted conception as a package that would eliminate discrimination. It seems surprising that the debate comes about surrogati and the right to assisted fertilization for lonely, etc., and believes that this is not the same debate, but it is the Labour Party representatives themselves who say that because we have adopted a, we have to adopt b. So this package actually has the government wrapped up itself. Then you should not be surprised when you open the contents. I'm very pleased with the clarification regarding surrogati, but the department is investigating the conditions surrounding surrogati. It would have been interesting if the Council of State could clarify that it has already been concluded that it is not relevant that this investigation should turn into a change in that position, but that it has already been concluded. It would be a useful clarification. The Christian People's Party is building its policy on the equivalency of all people. So this debate very clearly shows that the right to assisted conception and marriage is not a suitable arena for the struggle for human dignity and equivalency. That's how we can stand for equivalency between homosexuals, heterophiles and uphold children's rights and human dignity at the same time. Isn't that amazing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e880	I want to start by stating as Minister of Children that it is not that adults have the right to have children. Then, as the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland was inside, we will look at it from the perspective of the children – what is best for the children? These discussions must also focus on technological developments. Nor can I see that it is reasonable to put similarities between assisted conception on one side and surrogati on the other. That's two completely different things. Then I will also join the representative Awake!’s observation that it is difficult to grasp what is really the Christian People’s Party’s position now. Do you want to reverse common marriage law, go to choice and really hold on? If that's so important, I expect you to do everything you can to bring along any government cooperation partners – if that goes wrong after the next elections. Do you want to go back to the right to be assisted by conception as it is after today's law? How do you want to deal with that? To the Progress Party: I look forward very much to the debate that will take place at the spring national meeting. I hope that the Progress Party will come after that. For once you can't say, "What did we say?" Now we can say that. The world is changing, but the point is that the world is not changing by itself. The world is changing because someone is going ahead to change opinions and attitudes, among other things. We know that the law is very important in that way. The signals sent are important, and they form perceptions. We know that there are still a lot of people in this country who are ashamed, because they – in a way – love the wrong person. We know that in certain parts of the country and in certain environments, it is much harder than elsewhere. This applies not least in highly religious and conservative settings — both in established, so-called Norwegian settings and in immigrant settings. That's something we have to deal with in the future. This is not something that is going to happen by sea – someone has to go ahead. We have to be clear about what we expect, not least to young people. Again: No one has the right to have children, but I am very happy that everyone now has the right to marry anyway. Although a woman and a man are basically a biological condition for having children, many people are also unable to have children. There is also a part that travels abroad to attend surrogati events, which are not gay couples, but heterophilic couples. So we have to keep our tongue right in our mouth. I am very concerned about the rights that these women – who may be included in such events – will also have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e902	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e918	I want, as the text of the interpellation indicates, to focus on the issue of the move of children under the care of child protection. This challenge cannot be solved without being seen in the context of the other challenges of child protection, and the reasoning therefore leads to challenges of a more fundamental nature for child protection, to which I come back. There's no torch for child protection. Therefore, child-restraints should call on special attention from us politicians, and here we obviously have more to go on. Child protection is given by us, as legislative authority and society, powerful means of power. This gives child protection a great responsibility to manage that authority in a dignified and competent way, and it gives us, as politicians, a very great responsibility to facilitate this in a good way. But not least, it gives us an overwhelming responsibility to make sure that the children who are under the care of child protection – or rather let me say of society – are well. One of the most fundamental questions that politicians have to ask about child protection is therefore the following: Do children have proper care? The SSB statistics on child protection show that 2,600 child-restraint children moved last year. 19 pst. – i.e. about 500 children – moved more than once. These are serious numbers, but what's more serious is that the numbers are probably not right. Both the KS and the Foster Home Association give clear information that they believe that these figures are very uncertain. So what's left is this: we don't know how much children are moving. We don't know if they experience stability and security. We all experience hearing and reading stories about child-rescue children moving and moving. We don't know if that's the rule or the exception. It may be noted in brackets that during the recent meeting of the Committee on Child Protection in Stavanger Municipality it was informed of a child who had moved seven times in the last six months. The answer to one of the most fundamental questions we have to ask about child protection – whether children are well cared for – is this: we do not know. I would like to see the Council of State correct my view of this, but until that happens, I would describe this as a very alarming situation. The government has now carried out a review of the organisation of child protection over several years. The review has been characterised by an evaluation of the 2004 Child Protection Reform. The government's aim is to promote the cause of the Storting next year. I look forward to that, but I allow myself to ask, how can the Storting treat and make decisions about the organisation of future child protection, if we can't answer whether child protection gives children good care? There must be several relevant criteria in such an assessment and not all are objectively measurable. Nevertheless, it is clear that stability is fundamental to the further development of children when care failure has been experienced. There's another relationship that makes it necessary to get a good answer to the question of moving. A central part of the decision-making basis for Storting's treatment of future child protection is I guess I'll be the Raundalen Committee's report – a very interesting and good investigation. One of the conclusions is a new principle on which the assessment of child protection should be based when taking care of the child. The new principle shall be ‘Development-promoting link’. It's an interesting and good concept. But the control question before we can decide is this: Is child protection connected? Unless we can answer a clear yes to that, it will be impossible to decide on the proposal of the Raundalen Committee. And unless we know what is the status of the extent of the movement of children in the care of child protection, the answer still has to be: we don't know if child protection provides connectivity. I am afraid that this lack of basic information is indicative of a lack of political will to ask key questions about child protection. I would like to stress that I am not saying this primarily to criticise the government. I'm saying that because I think over time we've let some -- let me call it -- political space in child protection. I think there are several of them, but this is one of them. However, it seems clear that one of the major challenges facing child protection is that children are moving too much. There appears to be a need for a stability reform of child protection. I will not here account for all the elements of such a reform, but I will mention some elements that must be central. Firstly, better follow-up of foster homes, to prevent fractures. Secondly, more use of institutions for children with the most demanding needs, such as: the child protection panel has pointed to. Thirdly, institutions and foster homes need to be more closely linked, in ways such as: some non-profit institutions work. Fourthly, more use of family councils, large families as foster homes. Fifthly, change to the criteria used when moving from foster home. We have to ask ourselves whether we are looking too hard at the ideal professional offer, at the expense of stability. It's better with a semi-functioning foster home than moving around until you don't have any fixation points. The sixth point is that one has to consider whether the appeals for biological parents have become too strong and that it creates instability for the children. This shows, in essence, that one needs to look at the move problem in the context of the other challenges of child protection. In addition to the mobility challenges, child protection has a fundamental challenge: an enormous increase in the number of cases. From 2007 to 2011, the number of children with measures has grown by 22pst. I don't think I need to elaborate on what it means by challenges, but you can't plan future child protection without considering that growth continues. In addition to these two challenges, the move problem and the growth problem, we already have a child protection system that is considerably undersized in almost all segments. An honest answer to this is that the sum is not manageable. We can't meet these challenges without asking any basic questions, and I'll explain that a little bit in the end. The Christian People's Party has proposed full child protection as a new standard for child protection policy. That is still a good proposal. At the same time, growth shows a need for a broader discussion before this ambition can become a reality. In the summary report of the Ministry’s evaluation project, Rambøll writes the following: ‘In a situation of continuous development of activity and costs, with a state intervention apparatus that does not meet the needs, and with difficult cooperation between municipal and state child protection, Rambøll considers that there is a need for a wide-ranging debate on child protection. The debate must address the objectives, target groups and strategies to be given priority in order to meet and prevent both the need for action inside and outside the home, and to anticipate how child protection should be organised and funded.’.» I think we don't just have to go through the organisation of child protection. If we are to meet this development, we must see the whole apparatus of action together, across sectors. These include: on how different professions and professional environments can challenge and give impetus to each other in terms of values and human views. The second question we have to ask is, what is it about our society that makes these needs so big and they grow? How can we build strong families and good growth environment rather than just repair? In addition, we need to be more effective at helping the child in the context and not just seeing the child isolated from the family. It will always be that kids have to and must be moved out of home, and it is not certain that in the future it will be fewer than today. However, we need to look at the cash flows in child protection and ask why it is often difficult to obtain large resources for help at home if needed, while the millions can suddenly roll when the child is taken out of the home. There are more children's protection who ask those questions. We may also need to ask whether it is appropriate to organise the prevention and assistance activities at home carried out by the protection of children in the same service as the part carrying out the care measures. The challenges we face in child protection call for a lot of big questions. To return to the starting point: One of the most important questions we can ask about child protection is: Are children well cared for? Before we can answer all the other big questions, we need to know more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e974	I'm sorry that I was a little delayed up here, but I actually got stuck thinking a little bit along the way in the representative's posts, and that was good, because I think there was a lot of thought in what the representative Håbrek presented here – a lot wise and much I can join. I agree with a lot of what was said about the need for stability. It is, of course, absolutely fundamental, at least if it is – we should call it – a developmental environment. Then there is a need for stability. Also in the case of foster homes and follow-up of foster homes, perhaps also to link institutions and foster homes closer together as well as increased use of family councils etc., it was very much that I can join. I also want to add something, for example. the need to hear children and to ensure that the voice of children is made clear, that we talk to them, that we ask them what they want, that they are included when decisions are taken along the way, not only when decisions are almost ready to be taken. It is crucial for the health and development of children, for how they are doing and for whether they experience good care. They have been asked about this, and it is quite clear that being heard and seen and actually taken seriously is essential for good care. My experience is also that children's protection is concerned with love, to a greater extent than we might be concerned about when we discuss child protection, and when trade unions talk about child protection. We also have to take that into account and discuss it. I am pleased to make a pro-focal contribution to the spring, which will also look forward to the value of child protection. I'm also very concerned that we need to ensure closer cooperation between the different agencies that can make a difference for children, that they work together, talk together, get respect for each other, and that they talk to the kids. Child protection cannot do the job alone. When the representative, Håbreck, talks about full child protection, I'm a little uncertain about what we're going to do. First of all, we don't know exactly how many child-restraints there will be. It also depends on what kind of view we have on children, how patient we are on behalf of children, how we manage to get in touch with children and ask the right questions that make us discover that children have a hard time. It will also depend on how well others do their job. It's not always the child protection that's going in, it might be the health centre that can do more. I very much agree with the consideration that the representative, Håbreek, had in this regard that it can often be difficult to get help as a parent when one is struggling, while we spend millions on institutional services at the other end. It's a paradox. It is quite clear that we could have helped more if we had previously given assistance. Family protection offices are also important, and many others, such as the United Kingdom. health stations. So these discussions I enjoy going on. I am, of course, concerned with ensuring children a stable growth with good and safe connection to adults. Children under care are particularly vulnerable to unforeseen events and decisions. Unintentional moves are a problem. I'm not aware that all movements are a problem, but accidental movements are a problem. If you could manage to prevent movements by giving children respect, listening to them, giving them good quality and good care, if we can do it, we won't move many of these kids. I want the best possible basis for decision-making to prevent accidental movements of children who have been placed outside the home by the child protection system. First of all, I would like to make it possible for child protection to take action before the child’s problems become so serious that child protection has to consider placing children away from home. Thus, child protection measures must be of high quality and adapted to the needs of individual children as far as possible. And once again, we also have to listen to the children. We have to have more differentiation, see that there are different children with different needs. We need enough staff. There has been an alarming need, not least in municipal child protection, for example. for the reasons set out by the representative, Mr Håbreek, namely lack of political attention in this field. Children's protection does not go on a torch, but they are heard more now than they were before. This is probably also why we now have a situation where we discuss more child protection locally, in the municipalities, as well as that we have earmarked and requested political treatment in the municipalities before submitting an application. It is also about the fact that children's protection has become more prominent in the debate. What they're saying is, it's not that they get too much help, they get too little help, and they get help too late. And that's an important message. We're now giving municipal child protection the largest resource pledge in 20 years. It includes both new positions and means of empowerment. Competence is also very important, for example. competence in one of my heart matters, which is about taboo areas: violence, sexual assault and care failure – what is really difficult to talk about, and which we just need to talk about. Of course, it's about how to be a good child protection worker. It's about how to talk to kids. We're going to set up a master-level child protection education, which is crucial for getting good managers, and which is crucial once again for securing the employees where they are, and in the tough job they often have to do. It is often not easy to be a child-restraint worker, but they are incredibly important for us to give children a good upbringing. Then it's about reorganization, which the representative was about. But organizing isn't the only thing we're doing, it's important, but there's a lot of other things that are equally important. The third is about new priorities and includes, for example: a review of how children can have a better influence. Another important debate concerns the practice of child protection of the biological principle, which is – I think – the starting point for this discussion: How do we view this in relation to the developmental principle proposed by the Raundalen Committee? We are going through the hearing opinions, and I would like to have a dialogue with the Committee on this. I think it's worth going to work thoroughly in this discussion. NOU 2012: 5 Better protection of children’s development contains several proposals aimed primarily at ensuring a more stable and predictable care situation for the child. For example, the selection proposes: the child’s relationship with foster parents shall always be assessed when the position has remained for more than two years. To gain more knowledge about placements and relocations, we need qualitative studies on how children experience the relocations. This increases the possibility that child protection can minimise the burden on children. The unit for cognitive developmental psychology, EKUP, at the University of Oslo, has, for example, compare acute and planned child-restraint positions. Findings from the research show that emergency situations in particular are often an impression for children, especially if child-restraint workers are not systematically working to mitigate the burden. Let me point out here that on November 20th, on the birthday of the United Nations Children's Convention, I had my own theme meeting at my home in the Department on the right of children to be heard. It became very clear that some of the children who might especially have needed to be heard are not being heard. There are many of the kids who get hospitalized once and for all. We have to do something about that. And we also see that it's about some of the most provocative children. Instead of being so concerned about what they're doing, we have to be more concerned about why they're doing it. It's related to how they feel. We see that there's enough too low a threshold to move children if they break out. We have to take that in and do something about it. We need to secure the employees. The Children’s Youth and Family Directorate finances both the EKUP and the Foster Home research programme for children’s needs. One of the sub-projects of the programme concerns accidental movements from foster homes. A report from the project suggests that accidental movements can be reduced, among other things. by strengthening the participation of foster children, which I have just been in, better training of foster parents, as we have to do, and more frequent use of genealogical foster homes. It's also important. It's not like we need to look anywhere other than in the child's community and networks when we're going to place, obviously not. The SSB child protection statistics show that in excess of 2600 children and young people in child protection moved during 2011. I think I said 2,700 earlier. So the right number is about 2,600 children and young people. That's 7 pst. higher than in 2010. Among those who moved in 2011, they moved slightly below 81 pst. of children once in the same year. The share that had moved more than twice during 2011 was above 3 pst. - or 90 children and young people. Here we come to the emergency room. We've had a discussion about that in this room earlier through a prepared question. I look forward to a discussion that revolves around how we can get a child protection where more children than today feel that they are getting good care. Many children are happy. We ask the children how they feel that child protection works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1020	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to, but I would like to say that I am happy to hear the satisfaction with which the Council of State meets the issues, the good reflections she contributes to the discussion, and not least that she wants a dialogue with the Committee on the demanding issues contained in the report of the Raundalen Committee. I am pleased that the Council of State attaches so much importance to hearing children, to hearing the child's voice in child protection. I was concerned about moving and moving the problem. The Council of State refers to figures from the Central Statistical Office, which I also referred to. But as I said in my post, I get quite clear feedback, including. from the KS, that these numbers are very uncertain that the registration is not working properly. I would like the Council of State to comment on that. The numbers of the SSB are high in itself, but if it's maybe a completely different image, it gives cause for concern, maybe in a negative direction. I am pleased that the Council of State is now going into the Raundalen Committee's report and the hearing opinions with such seriousness, but I would challenge the Council of State whether, in this context, she will also go through carefully the extent to which child protection actually offers connectivity today. When we say that we should be able to take the children out because they are not connected, then we have to offer connections at the other end. I want the Council of State to confirm that she will discuss and go into the work on the big issue she is preparing. There are differences between accidental and intentional movements, but I don't think we can stop there. I think we also need to have a discussion about the criteria that child protection uses to carry out so-called deliberate movements. There are many stories that indicate that there are planned shifts – intentional, well-intentioned, professionally assessed shifts – that in total become too much. Then we have to go in and discuss how to use those criteria. Secondly, I'm a little concerned that the consultation note sent out by the government is very technical and focused on organisational things and does not bear the mark of the fundamental challenges facing child protection, among other things. the growth in the number of cases. So I'm going to challenge the Council of States whether you really do the work on the matter thoroughly and take into account the great growth we see in the issues we're discussing, the fundamental questions about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1035	Thanks for the nice words. I really want to have a dialogue about this. It is essential that we be able to gather on some essential clarifications of importance for the future functioning of child protection. I think we agree very much. I am also concerned that we need to take in knowledge of what it means for children to grow up under unsustainable conditions over time. Much of the research that is being presented to us shows that children get very damaged if they are exposed to them, for example. a lot of stress that persists. It's harmful for them if they don't have security anywhere. Take, for example: the question of domestic violence. It has long been thought that it is not as dangerous for children to grow up under such conditions if the child is not exposed to violence. But we now know that it is equally harmful, if not more harmful, for these children to be exposed to this kind of relationship, simply because it is harmful if one of the parents is insecure and the other is dangerous, and the child can't do anything. Some of these children also go between, we know, trying to prevent the violence. We also know that it is important to get in during pregnancy. So that with early effort and ensuring that everyone does their job together for the best for the children, I'm very busy. There has been a strong increase in the number of child protection concerns messages. I've always said that I think that's good. I believe it is in line with a change in the view of children that we do not tolerate as much on behalf of children as we did before. There are now more than 50,000 messages for the Child Welfare Service. We have also received the alarm phone, which makes it perhaps easier to report. More and more of the agencies report to child protection. The fact that so many children are in kindergarten is a very good opportunity to get in early to prevent children from living under unsustainable conditions over time. Because there is no point in ensuring stability if there is a terrible situation that this child is living under. Our approach to this is not just that we're going to do something about the organization. There's only one of several terms in what we call the Child Protection Lift. In addition, we need to have enough resources, ensure that there is good competence, that there are enough people to do the job and robust professional environments. So it's about looking at the principles and how we ensure that children are heard. There are three elements that can make us better equipped to provide the children with the stable and good care relationships that we want them to have. The relationship issue is very important. We know that often what it takes – to get a good relationship – is to make good changes. But still there are too many children we don't reach. I'm sure of that. Much can be done with the framework we have today. But then we have to use the resources more rationally, come in earlier, talk to the kids and work together better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1052	Let me start my post by stressing the obvious, namely that the growth of children is primarily the responsibility of parents. It is within the family of children to feel the necessary security and stability to ensure good development, freedom and the possibility of a good life. As the distinguished state councillor Kristin Halvorsen says, a good childhood lasts a lifetime. Therefore, it is important that assistance measures by the child-restraint sector are focused primarily on family measures. In addition to parents' responsibilities, society also has a clear responsibility for children. When parents and children need help, the community shall be set up. It's part of the social contract. A strong community stands out for each other, especially for the weakest – for the children. Therefore, we need to focus more on everyone's responsibility to follow, not to lose sight of each other and to take responsibility for each other. The main tools of the Community in this field are the protection of children. One of the finest things a person can do is to open up his home to the weakest in society – for the children. It's sad that this field has obviously been underprioritised in the last 20 years from almost all governments that have had power. It is therefore gratifying, but also important, to note the fact that this government has had child protection as one of its main causes. It has been about increasing resources, increasing participation and improving legal certainty. This means that child protection is getting better and better, that more children are getting help, and that more families are getting stronger. But we see, of course, many challenges, which the Council of State is working on every single day. One of the challenges is pointed out by the interpellant, that we see too many moves. In this work, it is important to constantly focus on the need for stability for children. There we have received good input from the Raundalen Committee in particular on development-supporting principles. The Child Protection Panel has also been extremely concerned about this and has good input into the process in which you are involved. I share, like the Council of State, many of the views expressed by Hope from this pulpit. At the same time, I react to the use of words when it is said that we do not know whether child protection provides good help, that we do not know whether child protection and foster home parents are offered connections. He claimed, among other things: in the Address Paper yesterday that child protection is about to collapse. This is a reality that I don't know about. This is a reality description that is only suitable for one thing, and that is to scare more children. We can't do that. It is also not true when it is said that there is virtually no focus on home interventions. First of all, we have a lot of dedicated child-restraint workers who every day offer safety, care and assistance to children. We have many foster home parents who offer good association. There is a need for better guidance for foster parents, and we see that one of the challenges when we discuss these things is the biological principle. Children must not only move often, but they must also constantly move between foster homes and parents, each time parents say that they will try again. This creates challenging situations for the children, great uncertainty and little stability. I would like to point out that taking care is either an emergency assessment – then there is no time to lose, action has to be taken quickly, and then moving is desirable – or it has been assessed whether action at home can be offered before providing care. I feel confident that the Council of State is working intensively on this, and that we will see a child protection that is still improving and developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1067	First, I would like to say a thousand thanks to the interpellant for travelling an important topic again. It's a theme that's been featured in this room many times, and as it was time to get up on the table again. The Council of State is pleased that she will be allowed to present a major issue of child protection until next year. I can promise that it does the Advance Party as well. If there is a matter that has been called for and wanted for this big thing, there is exactly one issue about child protection. We're really looking forward to getting it into place. Taking care of a child is one of the biggest interventions that governments can do in a child's life. Sometimes it's necessary. We see that we have received more and more concerns messages and warnings. We also see that child protection does a very good job in a lot of cases. But it's often the issues that don't work, it gets focused on. In too many things, we see that children who are going to get a better life when they are taken out of their homes do not get the help they need. Many of these children have major problems. They have big, complex and complex issues. It's a challenge for child protection to address it. What's being brought up here today, if constant movements, is very worrying. We have also seen that there is a political will to liquidate a good part of the institutions we have today, because we want to focus on foster homes for these children who need help. The representative Stokkan-Grande notes that it is nice to see families opening their homes. That's it. I agree with him. There's a lot of respect for the families that open their homes. But many times we see that for those families who have a child with serious problems and challenges, there is too much pressure on the home. You see that this is not the right measure for that child, and you get a move. For this reason, it is important that each child is seen — that children are viewed in relation to the challenges they face, and what kind of treatment and help they need. That's why it's important that we get a diversity in child protection. Former Councillor Lysbakken was very clear that there had to be a diversity in child protection. Then we need foster homes. We need reinforced foster homes, we need institutions, and we need ideal, private and state institutions. Nevertheless, we are concerned about developments when the state often says: Use our institutions instead of a private or non-profit institution, because we have room in a state institution. Then you put the system in front of the kids. Then it's not the child who needs it and the help that comes first, but what kind of place the state or state child protection wants. Me and the council were watching a film for a while back that focused on seeing the kids. Each child must be seen. They must be heard and taken on advice as far as possible. It is not certain, said these children, that they were heard, or that they had their wishes fulfilled – but they were at least taken on board. You could see that being taken on board and being seen made the children feel that they had a value. It may be possible to calm a child rather than lead to aggression in the child – which you do not need. When the committee a couple of weeks ago was in Rogaland, we met with County and former state councillor Tora Aasland. It is worrying when the county states that government policies have now gone too far in winding up institutions. The county councilman in Rogaland says that in Rogaland this development has gone too far. She is also concerned about the quality of institutions – and then in the state institutions. There are signals that we have to take with us. When the child protection manager in Stavanger says that there is concern about the quality of foster homes, it is important that politicians take on board the need for quality; they need to provide guidance – empowerment – for those foster families who need it. It is important to put this on the agenda. We have to make sure that the children who need the help of the state get it. But I am unfortunately afraid that there are many children today who have not got a better life after they were taken out of the home.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1093	I would like to begin by commending the Christian People's Party, which has put this debate on the agenda. That's very good. Unfortunately, there has been a large increase in the number of children in child protection measures in recent years. Unfortunately, everything suggests that we will still see a large increase in the number of child protection cases. Nor can we say that we are able to give the children the help they need and are entitled to. The vulnerable and vulnerable children need tailor-made care, and they need diversity more than anyone else. Several alternative offers should be preferred – not less. For young people who have lived many years with assault or violence, it is not certain that a foster family is the most appropriate measure. Some children suffer so much damage that they need professional assistance. Too many children are destroyed by moving too many times between different families and different institutions. Too many children experience too many fractures. Therefore, I am pleased that both the Council of State and the interpellant stress that we need to spend more resources on finding the right measures as early as possible, so that children are not moved – over many years – between institutions and families and get their lives further put on hold. Our goal must be to move in as early as possible and with the best possible measures. But that's not easy, we all know that. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that the government is signaling support for what the Right has proposed several times, that we need to look at other forms of child protection organisation, namely to shift more competence and responsibility out to the municipalities. Those who are close to the children see what the children need, so that you can take action early. We need to strengthen prevention efforts and help parents to become better parents and to create better families. That must be our goal. I am a little concerned about the Labour Party's position in the debate. On the opposition side, we are very pleased that we have finally got a government council that engages in a constructive dialogue, which seems impatient, and which also takes the opposition into discussion on how to improve child protection. We appreciate that very much, because the opposition has made numerous proposals, and we are concerned that we need to get better child protection. We are pleased that the Council of State meets the opposition and that we are working towards a common goal. But what scares me is the Labour Party's attitude. Instead of going into a discussion about how to get better child protection, you're busy running election campaigns and black-painting the opposition. When Arild Stokkan-Grande goes up to the pulpit and says that he doesn't understand any of the Christian People's Party saying that it can't vote, I think that the representative Stokkan-Grande probably has a terrible hectic everyday life here on the Stortinget, and that some of the reports and conclusions of the Riksrevision might have passed him by. When we say in the opposition that we don't have enough knowledge of the child protection situation, Stokkan-Grande says it's completely wrong, you have. No, the report by Rambøll and the Riksrevision states that we lack knowledge of the need for child protection and what measures are most helpful to children. Stokkan-Grande says that we have given the children a better contribution, and the government has done that in recent years. No, the government hasn't. The government has voted down all opposition proposals on how to hear the children. The representative Stokkan-Grande says that we have strengthened children's legal certainty. No, the government hasn't. The Labour Party sits on the Stortinget and rejects any proposal to strengthen the legal certainty and participation of children. We have to expect that the Labour Party here in the Chamber is not just concerned with election fighting, black paint of the opposition and rhetorical notes from Youngstorget. Let's discuss how to get better child protection, for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1112	In recent years, we have been able to read serious articles on child-restraint children in various media: ‘Youth in action — failure and weakness’, ‘Foster home care — a planned disaster’, ‘Child-restraint child on moving foot’, ‘No children’ and ‘Children on dismissal’. This is just some of the headlines we've read. NOU 2000: 12, on the state of child protection, was a serious and thought - provoking document. The NOU raised questions about society that had fully recognised the value of security and protection in relation to the pressures and risks associated with childhood and youth. It pointed out that those who do not succeed are young people who do not master their lives and are injured by negative influences in their homes, neighborhoods, and schools. The importance of their growth rate has not been fully understood – nor today. There's a reason to ask, what happens to these kids, these kids who get a bad start in their lives? What opportunities do they have? Have we really understood as professionals, politicians and societies? Since then, new research into cognitive neuroscience has shown us harsh realities in recent years. Kinderepsycologist Magne Raundalen said two years ago that we should get on our knees and apologize to these kids. Brain researchers today look at their computer screens that depict teenage brains, that the brain is not at all completed in the same way that the body is otherwise, as we have thought. Young people at risk carry traumas that can simply be depicted, especially in those areas of the brain responsible for judgment, reason and risk assessment. Children and young people need to be understood and helped in the light of this completely new knowledge, from which we can actually benefit. The children need all the help we can give them, as quickly as possible – first aid and long-term help. I believe that ‘development-supporting association’, which is the new concept of Raundalen, is related to this new knowledge. The help we give must be thoughtful, not experimental. We're talking about kids and young people who don't master, who can have major traumas, and they can't fail anymore. Magne Raundalen has also said that a large number of abortions are a planned disaster, as children suffer more trauma. Children are not parcels that can be delivered here and there. Some children feel that way. Others feel that they are candid. Thousands of children are moved between foster homes and institutions over and over again through childhood. In foster homes, an amazing and formidable effort is being made – saving children every day. They have to get better conditions, just as the Council of State was. Children must not be misplaced in foster homes. If a child, or a youth, has very serious problems, if you are unsure whether a foster home can handle the task, we need to have a different offer. I never forget the visit I had at Styve Gard in Bergen, run by the Church's Social Service. This institution had, and still has, ordinary single-dwelling units with room for approx. three children per day. It was, and is, young people with great problems – often both rushing and crime. Yet they are able to provide valuable help and security. Staff practice so-called participation. In recent years, the institution has developed a new offer in addition: they provide home-based services to families who need it. And one of the most important things: they provide home-based aftercare, whether the young people move back home or to their own homes. The average time spent living in the institution itself is approx. 1.5 years, but post- protection may take several years. They are not released – the municipalities are setting up – they keep the link with the good staff. This type of institution can be a good offer. I hope they survive in the future. Top qualified personnel, small units, participation – that may be too many. Perhaps such offers could also have been used as emergency accommodation, when one had come back to the same people who lived there. At least we need a diversity of child protection services — services that need to be tailored to the individual. It must be as certain as possible that the child protection child or youth will master their new situation. We can't afford to try and fail with our kids. I want to end by saying that the Council's commitment to children's protection is real, and that's good – thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1138	I thank you for a very good and interesting debate. I just want to mention to the representative Solvency Horne that in the case of signals about the building up of institutions from the county council in Rogaland, we got exactly the same signals when we were at the county council in Troms. There are a few things I would like to mention at the end of the debate. One is, the Council of State says we have to take inwards how harmful it is to grow up under care failure conditions. I'd say a loud yes to that. But then it's next: we have to take inwards how harmful it can be if we don't offer connection and stability when we take the kid out of a situation, because kids are so vulnerable. I just want to emphasize again how important it is that we get numbers on the table to get documented: to what extent do kids get access to child protection? To what extent do they get stability? Is there a move on the move? Is that the rule, or is that the exception? We must have an answer to this question for example. to debate the Raundalen Committee and the future of child protection. I think we must also dare to go into the criteria – not just in overall action. We must dare to discuss the criteria and the insight that child protection uses, for example. when moving between foster homes. How do you balance stability to the professional ideal? How do you judge? It is nice to consider large families and relatives, but how do you assess the stability that it might offer, against the professional point of view? Here's a way to go, and we have to venture to go into that discussion. So I'll say in the end that in terms of the growth problem, I don't feel that Arild Stokkan-Grande has taken it completely inward. If we take the situation with the current level of babysitting and build up sufficient treatment capacity in the first line, build up enough capacity in the counties, build up enough capacity to care for the biological parents after taking care of them, build up enough capacity to take care of the foster homes, follow up foster homes properly, build up adequate aftercare and then put the growth on top of it, it's just a piece of paper that doesn't go together. No matter how good both the Christian People's Party and the SV will be to give ear-marked appropriations, the math doesn't go into hops. We have to take that inwards. We have to start asking the basic questions. My last challenge to the Council of State is: when you go into this and present a major issue of child protection now – which may be what will lead child protection for 10-15 years to come – you have to start with the basic issues, which deal with both stability and not least the growth problem. How can we stand as a society, to meet that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1153	Let me start by thanking you for a good debate. It is a debate that we have really just started. I want us to look at how we can work together in the further process before we put forward a proposition with a message part. It's not going to be a single big message that gives room to really go deep on all the themes I want – it's not possible to access the resources we have – but it's a message part. However, it is possible to discuss more issues than those we are going to affect in depth in the message part. There I hope for a committed committee, and my experience so far is that it is a committed committee. There are also other representatives, such as the representative of Laila Davøy, who are involved in this. That's very good. I just want to stress – as I think I mentioned earlier in a debate with the representative of Hope – that the data on child protection movements is not sustainable as they are today. I see the need for better statistics than what we have now, so from 2013 we make extensive changes in the reporting of municipalities to the Statistical Central Bureau, just so it's clear. However, I would also like to point out that as far as the principle of development-supporting child protection is concerned, the Raundalen Committee says that it will assume that the child protection service will have access to competence to assess whether, as they call it, care skills in parents are development-supporting or not. They say that today child protection does not have this competence alone. The committee sees it as a pre-requisite that the child protection service should have more access to developmental psychology and associated research skills available in other municipal services, such as: in the community’s psychologist service, in health stations and in mental health protection. There are several perspectives that need to be addressed in this discussion. We can't just look at whether we're offering stability today or not, and whether we can then introduce such a principle. There are some assumptions that have to be based, that go deep into what kind of competence we have, and not least how we hear these kids. I agree with those who have said that we need a diversity in child protection. Of course, we need a diversity. But then we must not reduce that debate to deal with how many public offers we have, and how many private, ideal and commercial offers we have. Then it must be about the totality of the offer we give to children, based on the fact that children are different and have different needs. And then it has to be based on quality. But I'm absolutely sure it's right to turn as we do, so that we get a more differentiated action apparatus, which it's called in very bureaucratic language. But it can't be too fast. And that's not how we're going to stop using institutions, and just use foster homes. It's completely wrong, if someone thinks that's the signal. We're going to have both, and we're going to have different types of institutional services as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1167	That being the case, it is no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-23.ana.ud991e1180	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? It doesn't seem to be the case among those who are left here. - The meeting's been cancelled.
