ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e63	Honourable co-representatives! Former Waging Representative and Foreign Minister Svenn Thorkild Stray is dead – probably 90 years old. Svenn Stray was born on February 11, 1922 in Arendal. He became cand.jur. in 1946, and in accordance with the case-law of the Court of Justice, he established himself as a plaintiff. Svenn Stray practised as Chief Justice and Lawyer in Moss until 2007. Svenn Stray represented Østfold Right on the Stortinget from 1957, and he was re-elected at all elections until 1981. Before that, he was deputy no. 1 for the Köpsteden in Østfold and Akershus counties from 1949 to 1953. Up to 1979, he combined the landfill with the office of city councilman in Moss. He also had trust in the Right Central, among others. He was the first Vice President for eight years from 1962. Svenn Stray spoke re-election after the period 1981–1985, after almost 28 years at Stortinget. On the Stortinget, Svenn Stray first appeared in the Social Committee and quickly distinguished himself as one of the most prominent speakers in social policy. After the bourgeois election in 1965, Svenn Stray was elected to the Right Parliamentary Head, a post he held until he took over as Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1970. From the fall of 1973 to the autumn of 1981, Svenn Stray Stortinget was vice president. When the pure Right Government was formed in the autumn of 1981, he again became Minister of Foreign Affairs, an post he held for four and a half years. At Stortinget, Svenn Stray was a member of the Social Committee, the Church and Education Committee and the Justice Committee over the years, as well as the Foreign Affairs Committee and the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee. He represented Stortinget in the Nordic Council and the Council of Europe. Svenn Stray also held a large number of positions: Chairman of the Smurf Board, People and Defence, and in the European Movement. Svenn Stray was a politician with solid insight, broad orientation and good understanding. He was highly respected and well-like in Stortinget, also because he was always a loving, modest and – not least – patient meeting leader in the main hall. We remember Svenn Stray for his work in Stortinget and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e93	The representatives Karin S. Woldseth and Arild Stokkan-Grande, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Laila Marie Reiertsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e104	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on compensation for the loss of labour income for volunteers called out by the authorities in rescue operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e109	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e125	If you put too much into the everyday lives of your teachers, you steal their time. It's not good for the learning outcomes of the students. The 2008 time-use survey showed that seven out of ten teachers have to take care of pupils socially several times a week. Half had to intervene daily or several times a week to resolve conflicts. One teacher said to Tønsbergs Blade a few years ago: ‘I want a psychologist into school, a psychiatrist, a pediatrician, a pediatric pedagogue; all of the support functions that can create security and well-being. Then I don't want to act like a psychologist and other things I'm strictly not trained to." She felt that too many tasks shifted her focus from what was her primary function — to learn from her, to be a good educator, to arouse the spark of her students. The most important factor for student learning outcomes is the teacher. That's why the teacher, the teacher's role, the teacher's training has received so much attention from our government, and it's still important to promise. But if the teacher is to have better time to teach the students, we need at least two things. Then we have to raise the teacher's density, and we have to move more systematically in order for more groups of professionals to have more natural access to school. With more environmental workers, health sisters, socionomists and caregivers, the teacher will be given time to do what he or she is best at — to teach the students, to increase learning pressure, to raise learning outcomes. The challenge is that although the ambition to have more groups of professionals in school is national, many of the keys to achieving this goal are local. It's the local priorities and the jobs are done. It is locally established procedures for good multi-disciplinary management. Locally, it is necessary to specify the needs and the solutions that work best there. Already there are some things that can be of inspiration. Last year, for example, the red-green parties in the Skien initiative for a decision on the local budget – that all the schools in the Skien should employ one environmental worker each. Today, this has become an offer at all 13 primary schools and five secondary schools in Skien. The rapporteur, Hedda Foss Five, can tell you that the feedback from the schools is very positive. When environmental workers are targeted, the benefits are great, both for the well-being of the students, for the time of the teachers and for the overall learning pressure on the school. Foss Five and her team in Skien have worked systematically to employ new professional groups in school everyday life. I hope that it can inspire more people to do the same in their municipalities. All schools should have a good school health service service. It's a law-enforced service. Municipalities have a separate responsibility to meet those legal requirements. The Health Directorate concluded in 2009 that the school health service has too low capacity and needs to be strengthened. The importance of a good outreach school health service was highlighted in the Time Use Committee’s report. One of the things that distinguishes school health services from all other healthcare services is the ability to cooperate closely with the school on systematic and long-term interventions. A good school health service can affect students' ability to master everyday life. It may also help to identify pupils with specific needs and may carry out prevention work, which may help to ensure that the necessary measures are taken early. It will therefore be useful if the Minister of Knowledge in his reply also discusses what is being done to monitor and enhance the competence of the school health service. However, the tasks performed are of interest to this Committee and to the Council of State itself. Assistants are a group in school that doesn't seem to have much of a negative undertone in this room. You can get the impression that assistants are an undesirable addition to good educators. In reality, many assistants, used in the right way and with the right competence, do an important job in relieving teachers and caring for the needs of students outside the educational situation. Rambøll did a survey for the KS in 2010, where they went through how assistants are used in school. Part of the survey showed that assistants are mostly used for personal, social and practical support for students. Furthermore, assistants are not a uniform group. Most people are not educationally educated, but many of them have vocational letters — a part from the health and social sciences or from the child and youth professions. With their competence, they can support teachers by being a relief in tasks that do not require education. But – and it is an important but – they should not lead the teaching. They shall not perform tasks which require teacher competence. An example of how assistants can be used in a good way is from Flekkerøy school in Kristiansand. A team consisting of pedagogues and at least one assistant for each step has been set up by the principal. The assistant is an invaluable part of it and is involved in the planning of pedagogical leadership. They also distribute dosed medicine, carry out inspections, facilitate activities, take responsibility for milk, fruit and other practical tasks. Of course, the assistants there are not responsible for the planning or implementation of education. If we are to reach the ambition to give more groups of professionals natural access to school, we are faced with two major challenges: firstly, we need to improve the recruitment of different occupational groups to School-Norway. They must have a more pronounced and obvious role in the schools. It is also about the awareness of school leaders and school owners about the importance of prioritising this locally. Secondly, good working practices are needed, so that a multi-disciplinary staff resource is managed and used in the best possible way. It requires good executive competence from the principals. Norway has previously participated in a comparative OECD school management study. The retrospective report contained concrete recommendations on how to develop and strengthen the role and role of schoolleaders. One of the features of the report is that Norway, compared with other countries, is characterised by a limited number of key measures or leadership aimed at school management in particular. I assume that the school manager training that has been launched in retrospect has taken this into account. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on how to give school leaders the best possible tools to be good managers for a team of employees with partly very different competences. In other words, there are many possibilities, but they are also the challenges, and they are complex. That is why I have invited the Minister of Knowledge here today to hear how she will contribute to the natural integration of several professional groups into the school, and to learn how they can be used in a targeted and systematic way in the learning support work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e158	I fully agree with Mr Tajik's approach to this debate. I have also suggested in many contexts that other groups of professionals can help teachers and free up time for pedagogical tasks. But the main objective of using multi-disciplinary staff resources is that we can create a good school day for the students, so that they get a good professional, a good social and personal development. The representative Tajik refers to the 2008 Time Use Survey, where it was found that 70 pst. of teachers often had social tasks — and half had to intervene regularly in conflicts. The 2011 student survey shows that there is now a trend towards improvement — that students feel that teachers need less time to relax in class may be a sign of this. In Report. St. 22 for 2010–2011, Motivation – Mestring – Possibilities, which is about high school, pointed out that fighting and unrest inhibit learning and is a problem in Norwegian classrooms. The government's commitment to the development of the learning environment is timely! A good learning environment frees time for the teacher and promotes learning for the students, not only professionally but also socially and personally. A good learning environment helps to reduce trouble, anxiety and problem behaviour. A good learning environment also contributes to the fight against bullying. There's a bit of bullying in schools with a good learning environment. Good class management is the most important factor for the learning environment and learning outcomes of students. This is why we are facilitating school-based development of school-leading skills in all youth schools. Changing the educational environment requires schools to work systematically, knowledge-based and long-term. The whole school has to go, and the principal's ability to bring the entire staff is central. Strengthening the competence of the Vice-Chancellors is part of our continuing training strategy. The representative of Tajik is quite right in saying that it should also mean how to ensure that one is aware of the kind of competence of other professional groups and how one can take advantage of it in its entirety. As part of the follow-up to Message. St. 18 for 2010–2011, Learning and community, which is about special education, we are now establishing a centre for the learning environment and behavioural research. Such a centre of expertise and resources will significantly strengthen support for the work on the learning environment locally. The school must relate to the everyday life, lifestyle, physical and mental health of the students and help them to master and succeed both professionally, socially and personally. In this work, cooperation with homes and contact with other services is important. Other occupational groups and services are already available at school: The school health service, which the representative Tajik was in, is a very important resource. It is also true that it is under the responsibility of the Minister of Health, but it is still the case that the health area and the school area need to work closely together in the field of school health services. It is also the case that the school health service is an important channel into other parts of the health sector. The school health guidelines provide a good basis for schools and health services to further specify cooperation procedures. The representative Tajik just called for this. Frameworks and local conditions vary, so I believe that the local level must determine how to cooperate in concrete terms. Fortunately, there are many good and inspiring examples that you can take advantage of. The Health Directorate concluded in 2009 that the school health service has too low capacity and needs to be strengthened. I would like to point out that the cooperation reform is leading to strengthening prevention efforts. In many municipalities, this will include: could mean strengthening school health services. The counselling function is often carried out by teachers, but it is not required by the Training Act that social educational advisors have to have their teaching skills. There are opportunities for schools to hire people with different backgrounds. School assistants are a group with very different educational and professional backgrounds, but unfortunately statistics do not capture the diversity of competences. More than half of the assistants have formal practical and educational training from the training of children and youth workers, and many have backgrounds from the health and social sciences. It is also the case that assistants, child workers and youth workers are not adequately valued and their competences are not exploited properly. Among other things, we do. tried out with extended and comprehensive school days. In the 2010–2011 school year, it was about the same. Eight hundred years of assistant work in the schools. Assistants are not supposed to replace the teacher, but assistants can be a very important part of a team. The team can work together to ensure that the teacher's strengths and efforts can be used primarily to prepare education, to carry out teaching and to follow up teaching. Assistants can be involved in decommissioning both individual livers and the environment. That's why we've been informed in the big-time, learning and community, that we're going to go through the training law and define more precisely what the assistants' role in school is, because today it's a pretty invisible group. Pedagogical-psychological services are available in all municipalities and counties. In the school year 2009–2010, there were 1,703 trade unions in the service, among others. specialist educators and psychologists. The aim is for these highly educated people to make a much greater systematic contribution to the work of each school. In municipalities, different occupational groups are already present, for example: persons employed in the protection of children and in the social service of municipalities. In the interaction reform, we have pointed to the challenges of municipalities to work interdisciplinaryly and across sectors. We see examples that municipalities have established multidisciplinary psychosocial teams, or that schools have organized crisis teams to help teachers when situations arise. This is something more municipalities should do. The Ministry will not impose regulatory requirements on professional groups other than school teaching staff. Local needs must determine the competence of individuals in the support apparatus. We recommended in Meld. St. 19 for 2009–2010, Time to learn, school owners to facilitate the link between training and people with different backgrounds, e.g. to help, health or social pedagogical competence, environmental workers or child workers. Such skills will definitely relieve both teachers and school management, so that you can get a good grasp of the competence of a school, work more preventively and conflict-relievingly, make sure that there are less trouble and unrest and follow-up students with psychosocial problems better. The single comet, i.e. the school owner must facilitate the development of cooperation in individual schools and ensure the necessary development of skills both for teachers and for other groups of professionals working in school. It is the responsibility of the school owner to ensure proper manning in order to comply with the requirements of law, regulations and regulations. It is important to stress that teachers should be responsible for the training of students and for achieving the objectives of competence. It is also the teacher who must have the primary responsibility for the learning environment of the students. Teachers must therefore be well aware of the social and personal development of each student. The teacher is the most central person for the students and should be able to assess at any time which assistance contributes as much as possible to the development of the student. Other professional groups with different skills and experience backgrounds are an important complement and can have a very important support function for pupils and teachers. The representative Tajik points to two challenges: improving the recruitment of different professional groups to School-Norway and ensuring working procedures where a multi-disciplinary staff resource can best be used. Statistics show that staff with different backgrounds than teachers are increasingly employed, while teacher density has been stable. However, the fact that other staff are largely employed as assistants and thus do not receive a job title showing their actual competence is an unfortunate side effect. I believe that this is a basis for claiming that there is a positive trend when it is that there are several occupational groups entering the school. In the case of work routines, to maximise the use of multi-disciplinary resources, this is an important part of the follow-up to the Message. St. No 18 for 2010–2011. There are many tasks in which other professional groups have a natural place in relation to training and can support training. In the communication on learning and sharing, we point out that some of these important occupational groups are left with a great educational responsibility alone and are not used in a team with the teacher. That's why it's important, as I was inside instead, to clarify the terms of the assistants' role in the training. It is now being followed up by the Ministry. I would also like, as a follow-up to this interview, to ask the Education Directorate to develop guidance material, which can help clarify roles and responsibilities and show how different occupational groups can support the work of teachers. Such a resource will also show good examples of how this can be done today in many municipalities and schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e213	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I particularly appreciated the part that is about the Education Directorate developing guidance material that will clarify roles and responsibilities. This will be a good practical starting point for many school owners and school managers. For a part of the challenge today is that although there are many occupational groups — some are represented in different schools — there can be a lack of overall systematics on how to use them in practice and how to think about them in different municipalities. Behavioral research centres, such as: The government thread was inside, I feel as well-known, but that the experience and the knowledge from there may not be used as systematically as in the various schools. The Lecturer 2 system – a collaboration with business – is a very good system and an important one, which can complement teachers and teaching. It is not quite as well known and not fully used either. I guess 133 schools are currently using the Lektor 2 system. An area where good systematics has been established is that which relates to the PP service, i.e. through the follow-up to the Mid-Lineg selection and the treatment of the Storing Message that we have had in this room before, and which has clarified how the PP service should work preventively and as a good support function for teachers. What I'm thinking is that on the other hand, it's our job as national politicians both to support the work done in total, to make it better known and to provide a good basis to guide how to do this better in practice. I would like to hear the Council of State promise how to practice this in a more systematic way, while at the same time balancing against the dilemma, which is that there are local conditions that should always be decisive, and that will have a lot to say about how to solve it in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e224	I have great faith in the power of the good examples. A supervisor in this area will be able to demonstrate just how different schools and different municipalities have worked to recruit professional groups other than educational staff into schools. I think that a lot of the principals and principals think that it's – what to say – an extra luxury in addition to the learning skills you have, but many of those who have worked systematically to think in a multi-disciplinary school have opposite experience: that if you get a little more breadth in the professions, you can relate to employees in school who can relieve teachers and who can work very positively in a school day. We know that quite a number of students have mental distress, and that almost every principal has significant challenges in the case of students who are not at school, in the case of students who are struggling with eating disorders, and in the case of students who have other types of challenges. It is clear that when you have a larger range to play on, a good health service, but also get e.g. environmental workers or other types of occupational groups have a wider range of rather complex challenges. So even if we now get a good teacher training with good student skills, etc., there will always be a need for a different type of competence. A supervisor is what you can do in the very short term, but I agree with the representative Hadia Tajik that we can think a lot bigger and a little bit longer term about this. Now the municipalities are in full swing with an interaction reform. It is about turning attention to prevention in the direction of providing those who may have some challenges, helping early and towards seeing the different functions of a municipality in a context. Here we have a potential that goes far beyond what we think today about prevention. What I'm concerned about is that we have to make sure that this happens in a way that in everyday school life is seen as a relief, where others are involved in taking responsibility for development – that it's not just a new task for teachers, which is already quite downplayed by demands and daily tasks. I understand the representative of Hadia Tajik there that she wants the opposite, namely, to look at how, through more systematic use of other professions, we can ensure that we just get more free of the teacher's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e235	First, I would like to thank the representative for addressing the important issue of how the Council of State will contribute to the natural integration of several professional groups into school. During some decades, the student mass in school has changed significantly. In the past, extra education was given to those students who were unable to follow the ordinary course. If there were no benefits, the student was moved to a special school for pupils with learning difficulties. This meant that the school had largely students who were a much more homogeneous mass than those who are in today's school, where the vast majority go to the ordinary school. This has called for and is needed for more and a quite different competence in school now than before. Unfortunately, this is not well enough taken care of in the Norwegian school. Today, in addition to teachers’ competence in the field of education, it is also necessary for them to set up a learning environment in which a diversity of students, with very different assumptions and needs, will benefit. We also have to assume that it is largely a community of competences we live in, and that we aim that most children will be able to take care of and care for themselves when they grow up. Then it is of great importance that we succeed in providing them with the best possible and best possible knowledge in primary school, so that they are able to complete a secondary education. With this background, it goes without saying that the school needs far more professionals’ skills to safeguard the heterogeneous mass of students at a school. The party wants more than just environmental workers, caregivers and nurses to enter the school. As we commented during the treatment of Report. St. 18 for 2010–2011, we believe that if specialist educators and the PP service had an office in the school, we would get a much better result from their services. Health care providers/school health services are able to care for students in many different areas — including prevention, as the previous speakers pointed out. This is why the Progress Party believes that there is a need for a national school health service commitment, which we know is very weak in many municipalities. Getting more from the school health service and more from other occupational groups into school means that we will be significantly more useful than, for example, the government’s teaching aid, which works against its purpose in several places, in addition to reducing — or removing — the offer to students for whom the statutory assistance is not provided. The Progress Party sees the need for, and is positive about, more groups of professionals entering school. But to solve new challenges, we often need to be able to use the resources we have available in new and efficient ways. In order to achieve this, systems and procedures need to be challenged and revised at regular intervals. New powers must occasionally be granted. This could be done, for example, by: be to authorise the PPT, in consultation with the school, to apply special pedagogical measures to individual students who need it, instead of requiring the student to wait a long time for special education decisions. This could be done, for example, by: also that the various professional groups now under the heading ‘assistances’ should be designated as being of particular competence. For the Progress Party, this is not just about recruiting new professional groups. It's also about how the majority of Biggest manages the human resources that we have available in school in the best possible way. The Progress Party believes that it is both a national and a local responsibility to bring the multidisciplinary competence into School-Norway. We can't just say that it's up to the individual municipality to take care of this, we also have a responsibility at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e258	This interpellation is a positive surprise when I hear the interpellant here today. This may indicate that the red-greens have come up with better ideas, after they have repeatedly voted down proposals from an overall opposition to strengthen the school with new occupational groups, and where the government is challenged to come back with concrete measures to achieve this. The importance of organising other groups of professionals at school was central when the Stortingen one year ago dealt with Meldning. St. 19 for 2009–2010 Time for learning. In fact, both schoolteachers and teachers have a clear desire to have time free and to be relieved of tasks that are currently stealing time from education. Other occupational groups have much better conditions to provide the student with the right help. There has been a significant change of mood among teachers. One should not go back too many years in time until one sees that other groups of professionals at school were rather controversial. Fortunately, it's no longer like that. On the contrary, we now feel that teacher organisations are drivers in order for teachers to concentrate on their pedagogical achievements. Many teachers feel that teacher training is short on meeting psychosocial, chronic or disability students who require close and extra follow-up in school everyday life. That is why, fortunately, there is a broad acceptance today that the school needs the professional skills of other occupational groups, whether it be environmental workers, socionomists, child protection educators, protective nurses, psychologists or the presence of health sisters. There is a lot of talk about the importance of multidisciplinary cooperation also as a prevention measure. If we are concerned about the child’s best interests, it is important that the school can catch up and help put in different relief measures for children and young people who need it. Right-wing belief in this kind of school-based help, because this can be educational support for the student, and teachers get professional relief for tasks that are outside the field of pedagogics. As the Ashkeladden in the adventure, the school needs many good helpers to achieve its goal, which for the school is to provide all students with the best possible learning outcomes. It is a reality that many children and young people face some serious problems that may stand in the way of learning if they are not given proper and necessary help. The right is therefore concerned that early school interventions need to be seen in a broader perspective than the purely learning outcomes of the school. Then we're talking about supplementary competence in addition to that teachers are equipped with. Interpellant asks how the Council of State will contribute to the creation of a natural place in school for more groups of professionals. My appeal to the government parties is that they should conclude on the opposition’s previous proposal for a contingency plan for other professional groups, as proposed in the winter of 2011, when we considered the ageing report on the recommendations of the Time Usage Committee. Therefore, the right again challenges the Council of State to consider a concrete escalation plan for other occupational groups, implemented as a sprawl layer between the State and the municipalities. But the right is also concerned about how to actually dispose of the professionals in the municipalities, and how to organise different support functions around the school in each municipality. Instead of leaving school for students in need of extensive help, the municipality should assess whether different professional groups can be located under the same roof inside the school. For example, the PP service should: be much more school-based and more co-located with schools than is the case today. Then we can achieve that other professional groups can work more closely on the student and provide qualified support and guidance to the teacher in its daily work. The size is consistent with the importance of school health services. Experience has shown that special health care is important. Here too, an overall opposition has made proposals for strengthening, which the government parties have unfortunately voted down. Increasingly complex challenges in the student group require more multidisciplinary environments of competence if the school is to succeed in its knowledge mission. If we're to avoid the teacher crisis, Norwegian school has to recruit thousands of new teachers over the next eight years. The right considers that an important element of this recruitment work will be a parallel escalation plan for other professional and professional groups. The aim of such a measure will be twofold: firstly, to make fresh teachers safer in the teaching profession and, secondly, to give new teachers more competent colleagues to play on when the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e284	Let me first thank the representative, Hadia Tajik, for travelling this interpellation, who addresses a challenge I think most school owners see the benefit of, but where the school has nevertheless come short of the priorities. That time is past when the teacher could close the door and was the sovereign in his classroom. In parallel with the fact that today's school accommodates all young people for more school years than previous generations, social developments have occurred, etc. new challenges for students and, hence, the school. If not all the challenges are new, they have become more visible, and the recognition that they have a bearing on the learning work and environment in school cannot be ignored. A few months ago, we dealt with high school messages. Young people are, as mentioned, a very complex group, both because childhood itself represents a break-up time with its challenges and because individual problems affect students’ ability to function in school everyday life. The problem is that many teachers feel that they are left to handle different social problems, psychological challenges, etc. As the interpellant points out, it is obvious that teachers do not have the necessary or sufficient competence to deal with all such challenges. The consequence is that students often do not receive the necessary help and guidance and that this work is demanding in addition to the actual learning work. But in addition to the learning work itself, the teacher needs to know the entire student, so the teacher cannot resign from all tasks related to the student either. The time of the special schools is over, as the representative of the Progress Party talks about. It requires that we be aware of the demanding tasks that teachers have. The multi-disciplinary need applies not only in the teaching of the subjects but also in how different professionals can mutually support each other and contribute to providing the necessary help to the students. Both child protection educators, protective nurses and socionomists possess important competences that can guide individual students and contribute to a positive impact on the learning environment. I believe that school owners and school leaders should be given the opportunity to set up posts for such support functions to a greater extent than at present. In addition to those jobs that directly target the student — a good school health service and the various groups that have been pointed out by others — support functions around the headmaster are also important. In the 2001 and 2005 schoolleader surveys, Møller and Sivesind have surveyed schools’ access to administrative and commercial support functions. 60 pst. In 2005, the school leaders replied that they do not have enough commercial staff at their school, while the corresponding figures in 2001 were 74pst. There are managers at the few schools and primary schools who are least satisfied with the school's office staff. The survey also shows the position resource of administrative and mechanistic support functions with school size and that 15 pst. by the Vice-Chancellors in 2005 did not have such a resource. The caretaker used to be the one who took care of some of the students who needed some air and some variation. Half of the principals believe that the janitorial service does not function properly for their needs. This answered 60 pst. The result is that you can see both principals and teachers climbing in curtain staircases to change bulbs, or as wintertime snow gushes in front of the front door before school starts. In addition to disbursing the principal by establishing administrative support functions around the school's management, I would therefore like to stress the importance of the school as an organisation having professional competence other than pedagogics. However, municipalities need to have a good enough economy to employ staff who can deal with social and health challenges. It is important that school leaders and school owners are sufficiently aware of how the time of teachers is used. Best use of time and resources is obvious if as much of the day as possible of the teachers is spent with the students to promote learning. It requires good community economics, priority for schools and good school owners and school leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e301	I would like to thank you for the discussion we have had now on how to work to get more professionals into school and to make it natural. That discussion has shown that in many places the situation is good, and there are also many good examples of how this has been solved in a way that can inspire other municipalities and other schools. But what we've also seen in the course of the discussion is that too many places don't work well enough. I also think it is important for us who have been here now and taken the floor, who have promised the discussion that we will take with us some of the good points that are formulated and incorporated into this discussion, into our home regions, so that this discussion will also have ring-fences where the employment actually takes place, where this is actually being solved. The representative, Thorsen, said that the school has changed, that the student mass before was more homogeneous because, among other things, the student mass was more homogeneous. have used special schools to a greater extent than is currently the case, and the need for more groups of professionals in this way has also increased. I believe and hope that Thorsen and I agree that the change we have seen is positive, and that it is a good thing for the individual student, for the learning outcomes, for the school as it should be, while also raising some challenges that need policy tools to solve As I experienced the contributions of the representative, Aspaker, although we agree that more groups of professionals are important in school, the impression is that there is a political disagreement about the need for it – it is not. Then there is also the impression that there is political disagreement about the procedure. I guess I don't think it is either. What's the challenge here is purely practical. What this discussion illustrates is a general dilemma in some aspects of school policy, namely that while ambitions and objectives are national, many of the instruments for achieving these objectives are local. Then the challenge is how we can properly support the important, necessary local work. Anne Tingelstad Wøien was in his post on a perspective that is so central that I would like to repeat that point, namely that the support function around the student is one side of the case. Well, so important is the support function of the other professional groups around the headmaster, so that the head of school gets to be a good educational director for his staff and thus gets up the learning pressure for the individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e314	I think this has been a very constructive debate. It is important that we focus on the local area when the discussion goes, because it will be quite varied around the country what kind of competence schools can have access to as well as what is core competence, principals and teachers. That's why I think it's important that you can see that there may be different other professionals here who can come up with slightly different ways of supporting training and who can be important fellow students in school everyday life. We run in a lot of different areas of development that go in the same direction, as the representative Hadia Tajik has addressed in the interpellation. For example, it is an important part of the follow-up to the Storing Communication Learning and Community to ensure that the PP service is getting closer in schools, that they are involved in the prevention work, and that there are resources that Vice-Chancellors and teachers can attract. Nor is it a bad idea if the municipalities think in the direction that they want to co-locate part of this, so that it is easier to cooperate in everyday life as well. It's also related to the great reorganisation we now have of Statped. The whole point of it is that they're going to get closer to the municipalities and the counties, and that it's also going to be easier for municipalities and counties to take advantage of the expertise that's there. With regard to the different centres of expertise we have, we know that schools can be much better at using them too. I just have to make a little comment to the representative Thorsen on homework. It is not the case that teaching aid has forced other kinds of offers in school. It's a fully funded offer from the state. We have a little bit of mixed experience, but we also have a lot of good examples of how homework works. We'll get an evaluation of it for the autumn. We also get a comparison of the support functions of the leaders in the school up to other leadership tasks in the municipalities, which just brings us to the discussion that Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Hadia Tajik were in, namely that we might have a little too little support around the principals' ability to hire mercenaries for help, to provide mercenary services, etc., which would free up a lot of time for her or him, which they should spend on pedagogical management, and which they want to use on pedagogical management. I always say when I'm in contexts where there are principals, that I'm going to support everyone who makes sure they get better support around them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e327	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e343	All children have the right to a safe and healthy upbringing. Taking care of our children is one of society's most important tasks. Taking responsibility for it is perhaps one of the most important responsibilities we can assume, both as fellow human beings and as elected representatives. Fortunately, the vast majority of children have parents who give them care and love, but unfortunately, some children do not have parents who are able to give it to them. We have an extra responsibility for catching up with these kids. These kids have to be seen, and they have to be discovered, but that's far from enough. They must also be followed up, given help and taken care of. Unfortunately, there is too much failure in our safety net. I'm glad that today we're going to discuss how we can better follow up these kids. It is important to talk about it, but it is also important to act — to give them help. We have to have a good safety net for the kids that fall outside. Unfortunately, today's safety net has too many holes and too many holes. In order to close the gaps, public services such as health centre, child protection, child and youth psychiatry need to cooperate and work proactively against kindergartens, schools and the voluntary sector. In short, we in the Right will provide well-being that works for children, and therefore we are concerned with the mental health of children, children who are bullied, poor children and children who are subjected to violence and abuse. Nine out of ten children go to kindergarten. It gives us a good opportunity to help children who have a hard time – early in their lives. But today it is that too many kindergarten workers do not have the skills to follow up children who have the difficulty. The quality of multidisciplinary cooperation in municipalities is too uneven, and unfortunately we do not have an overview of the scope, i.e. how many kids this applies. For many, it's hard to talk about children who have it hurt at home. I think several of us who have visited many kindergartens, have heard kindergarten staff telling us that they are doing their very best to look for signs, look for symptoms and report from. They often go and feel that something is wrong, and they go with a bad feeling of stomach, but it is not always easy to put words on it and not to follow up on it. A kindergarten manager I recently talked to told me that what she was most afraid of in her new job as the manager of a kindergarten was the day she had to report to child protection about cases of violence or abuse against one of her kindergarten children. We talked a lot about this, and as she herself said, without knowledge and training about how to deal with such difficult situations, it makes us employees very unsafe. She told me that two hours of election on the topic of violence and abuse against children was all she had had through her education as a preschool teacher. It tells us politicians that there is knowledge and competence that brings security, and that's what makes it easier to report from, say from, and not just go and feel the bad feeling of the stomach. In an early life phase, children are in need of care and stimulation. Although man is in a process of development throughout his life, there is a very special development in early childhood depending on the good follow-up of children. Violence and child abuse are still taboo. This is a topic that is important for us to talk about, but it is often pushed under the carpet, because it is difficult to understand that children can be subjected to violence and abuse in their own home, where they are to be safest. It is difficult to understand that care failure can go so far that adults who care for children can also commit abuse and violence against their own children. Kinderhage.no No. 2 had printed a very good article called The Invisible Children. They've spent a lot of resources monitoring how the system fails those children who are subjected to violence and abuse. In that article we can read that from 2006 to 2010 the number of family violence reviews increased by 500 pst., from 487 cases to 2,474. Nine out of ten Norwegian children go to kindergarten in large parts of the day, on average over 30 hours a week. Kindergarten has been given co-responsibility for care and appointment. It means that kindergarten is important to expose violence and abuse against children in an early phase of their lives. All nursery workers have a personal legal obligation to report when they have reason to believe that a child is subjected to care failure or violence. Unfortunately, it is that too few messages come from the kindergarten. In 2010, child protection received more than 8 000 concerns about violence, but only about. 7 pst. came from kindergartens. Some kindergartens do a very good job, and they encourage parents to turn to child protection for themselves. That's why these things don't get into the statistics, but these numbers are still something we're going to take seriously. Kindergarten employees may be one of the most important strands of the safety net to capture vulnerable children early in life. In kindergarten, it's about those who meet the children having sufficient competence to know what to look for. Nevertheless, today’s pre-school teacher training does not provide any mandatory training to interpret signals, behave or act when it is suspected that children have been subjected to violence or abuse. The right therefore believes that a significantly greater proportion of the education that educates kindergarten staff needs to address the issues related to vulnerable children. The fact that children’s home workers are given the necessary knowledge means that more people report concerns and more children will be caught up in the public safety network at an early stage. We have almost 90,000 employees in Norwegian kindergartens, and if only the newly-trained nursery workers have learned this through their education, it will take several decades before all employees in kindergartens have acquired the necessary skills to capture these children. The right would therefore like to have a concrete commitment to raising the level of competence of children exposed to violence and abuse for employees working in kindergartens today. In 2009, the government gave out the adviser to the child's best. It should improve cooperation between kindergartens and child protection. I'm a little worried that that supervisor in itself is not enough. Now, almost three years after it was introduced, we often hear from desperate kindergarten workers who report to child protection about violence and abuse against children, but who do not receive feedback from child protection. It is often experienced as frustrating for employees, because the child still comes to kindergarten, and they do not know if the matter has been addressed or not. It's important to make sure that this rule is respected in a good way. When kindergarten workers take steps to report their concerns, they also need to receive feedback. The supervisor proposes that child protection should be provided annually at parental meetings. Many nursery workers say that they have never experienced this. I therefore hope that the Council of State can say something about what the government knows about the concrete effects of the supervisor. It would also be interesting to hear the Minister of Knowledge say something about how many municipalities there are that have put in place systematic work related to violence and child abuse, the role of kindergarten in this and not least what we know about municipalities that work prevention against kindergarten from child protection and multidisciplinary teams. I look forward to the Minister of Knowledge's statement on how the government is working actively with these measures. The right has high expectations for the government’s new framework for kindergarten education. It is with great concern that we record that neither violence nor abuse is specifically mentioned in the new framework plan, and that knowledge about children in difficult situations of life and children's rights may drown as two out of a total of 92 knowledge, skills and competences objectives. I look forward to the Minister deepening in more detail how the colleges can ensure that the graduates have sufficient knowledge of children exposed to violence and abuse. I was very happy when I registered that the State Council Halvorsen in 2010 declared that she would bet on this field. The promise to train all adults who work in kindergarten, to see kids who are abused, to believe in them and to do something about it shows that the Council of State takes this work very seriously. Then I hope that through the debate we will discuss more specifically how the municipalities, kindergartens and, above all, pre-school teacher training will better enable the kindergarten staff to detect violence and abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e377	I would like to thank the representative of Hofstad Helleland for addressing an important question that I am very concerned about. There is a great strength in this work that there is such a strong cross-political consensus that the kindergarten is central to preventing and alerting if children are subjected to abuse or abuse. The government has a lot of focus on what we can do to make employees in kindergarten and school better detect and help children who are subjected to violence and abuse. It is absolutely central that employees have the competence to assess when there is a reason to notify the Child Welfare Service of a concern for a child. All employees of kindergartens and schools are subject to information obligations under Section 22 of the Children's Hospital Act, Section 15-3 of the Training Act and Section 7-4 of the Private School Act, without prejudice to professional secrecy, when there is reason to believe that a child is being abused in the home, that there are other forms of serious care failure, or when a child has shown persistent serious behavioural problems. In the case of kindergartens, it is primarily the responsibility of the kindergarten owners, i.e. the municipalities, to ensure that employees have the necessary competence to comply with the applicable legislation. The official figures from the Statistics Central Agency for 2007 showed that kindergartens were only a 4 pst reporting body. of investigations initiated in the field of child protection, covering more than 1000 cases. This figure is valid for the whole age range of 0–18 years and increases to about 15 pst. if only children of kindergarten age are included. Statistics for 2010 show that childhood notifications still account for only about 4 pst. of the messages that led to the investigation, but the number of cases has increased and covers almost 1500 cases. In care and abuse cases, kindergartens reported 305 cases, corresponding to 5 pst., in 2007 and 588 cases, corresponding to 7 pst., in 2010. This still applies to the whole age group 0–18 years, we do not have figures showing the proportion of children in kindergarten. In the case of the school, it reported on 13 pst. by cases in 2010. However, a survey conducted by NOVA in 2009 shows that there may be grounds to believe that kindergartens send a few more concerns messages and have more contact with child protection than the official statistics on child protection, in which the representative of Hofstad Helleland was present. NOVA indicates that there is no overview of the number of anonymous discussions between kindergartens with child protection in a year, nor how many parents are being advised to contact child protection from child care workers, or whether the case is already known for child protection, and a new notification will necessarily be registered as a new case or simply added to the existing case. So probably it's a little bit better than the hard facts show, but it's a big challenge. The framework for the content and tasks of kindergarten points out that there should be general and systematic cooperation between kindergarten and child protection, and that each municipality must find appropriate solutions for the cooperation of kindergarten and child protection. Cooperation should be sought based on regular and formal contacts, on common objectives for the child and on knowledge of each other's duties and working methods. Citizens shall advise and motivate municipalities for cooperation between services and different institutions dealing with children and young people and their families. In this context, I would like to be quoted from the NOU of the Flatø Committee in 2009 on better coordination of services for vulnerable children and young people: ‘The Committee also believes that closer contact should be ensured between the disciplines providing services to children outside school and kindergarten and those caring for children in kindergarten and school. Meeting places should be set up for cross-border/cross-disciplinary cooperation, where the PP service, the mental health protection of children and young people, the municipal health service and the child protection service can contribute to raising awareness of what children’s and school workers should be aware of, what is important to observe, and what may be evidence of diverging developments.’;» I will mention the following actions that have been implemented or started up: The Child Protection Act has been amended and the new provision opens up a better and more transparent interaction between child protection, kindergarten and school. The old legislation prevented the kindergarten and school from knowing how messages were followed up. The background to the amendment of the law is to strengthen cooperation with and trust in the child protection service. In the NOVA study, for example: nine out of ten nursery administrators that the threshold for reporting to child protection would be lower if you had good cooperation experience from the past. Then it is also important that the nursery gets information about how it has gone with the anxiety message they have sent. The Children’s Home Law Committee has proposed to introduce more precise requirements into the Children’s Homes Act, such as that the kindergarten should have written guidelines for procedures when one is concerned about a child, and it is clarified that all employees have a responsibility, not just govern, and that the municipality should develop procedures for cooperation between kindergarten and child protection. The committee's investigation has been consulted and will be part of the evaluation of the proposals. NOVA has shown that in 2008 had 61 pst. by the kindergartens established contact with the Child Welfare Service, that 64 pst. had written procedures to deal with suspected assault, mistreatment and care failure, and that 30 pst. had routines that were not written. Then only 6 pst was left. who did not have routines at all. It is such that the vast majority of kindergartens are aware of this, have as their theme and have routines. As one of the follow-up actions following the child care quality report, the Ministry of Knowledge, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has issued a common guide to strengthen cooperation between child protection and kindergarten. The supervisor came in 2009 and will contribute to enhancing the competence of all employees in kindergartens and child protection. In particular, the supervisor takes into account the obligation of kindergarten to provide information in the event of serious concern for a child. It also addresses the obligation of child protection services to provide feedback when the kindergarten has reported concerns about cooperation and communication between child protection services, kindergarten and parents. In a planned follow-up study on different aspects of quality in Norwegian kindergartens, we explicitly say that we want information on the knowledge, use and assessment of the BLD counsellor on cooperation between kindergarten and childcare services. I would also like to stress that employees in kindergartens and schools should not themselves assess whether there is a concern. They shall notify the protection of the child, and then it shall be the protection of the child that assesses the concerns they have. That's an important point. I believe that investing in strengthening the skills of all kindergarten staff on development and needs contributes to increasing awareness of catching up and understanding how children are doing. From 2005 until now, the Ministry of Knowledge has quadrupled the appropriations for various competence measures for child care employees. Leadership training for managers, guidance services for newly educated pre-school teachers, competence measures for assistants in all counties, continuing training provision for pre-school teachers and part-time training to recruit assistants for the pre-school teaching profession have contributed to increased knowledge of the care and life situation of children. Several of the continuing training measures have highlighted prevention and early interventions. A new, comprehensive competence strategy for the kindergarten area will be presented together with the Communication on the future of kindergartens in 2013. The new competence strategy shall apply from 2014 and the Ministry is now investigating the arrangements and content of competence measures for all staff in kindergartens. Today’s pre-school teacher training shall ensure that students are provided with knowledge of pre-school children in need of specific assistance and support and their families. NOKUT’s evaluation showed that there is a need for education that is more in line with social development and the needs of today’s kindergarten. We therefore establish a new and better pre-school teacher training from autumn 2013. The new training shall include, inter alia: emphasising the increased diversity of kindergartens, in particular the fact that we have had an increase in the proportion of children under the age of three, children with special needs and multilingual children. An increased emphasis will be placed on pre-school teachers’ knowledge of the different growth conditions of children and the ability of pre-school teachers to cooperate in cross-professional settings. Pre-school teachers shall develop skills to identify the specific needs of single children and take prompt action in the light of professional assessments. The national guidelines for the new framework plan refer, inter alia, to: the social mandate of kindergarten, the rights of children, the tasks and responsibilities of staff in relation to children in difficult situations. The Ministry of Knowledge has the following general formulations in this area: The candidate must have knowledge of children in difficult situations and of children’s rights in a national and international perspective. The candidate shall be able to identify the needs of the students in cooperation with senior and professional bodies and to take the necessary action. I thank the representative of Hofstad Helleland for addressing this issue. There has been a problem that she has previously also taken the opportunity to focus on. That, I think, is an important responsibility that we from the Storting and the government can take, namely to talk about the problem in the context we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e418	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good presentation. I was particularly pleased to hear that the competence strategy to be presented in the context of the big business message next year is being worked so systematically. I think it is very important that we see it in the context of the kindergarten message we are looking forward to in 2013. However, I could have liked to hear how clear the Council of State would be in its message to the country's kindergarten education in terms of what is in the framework plan, because we feel that the various institutions are very different in emphasis today, and if the Council of State wants to be more specific in their message to the institutions about how much of the education this should be. It's also another moment that I want to get into, and that I want to hear the thoughts of the Council of State about: the duty of confidentiality. Many of us hear the well-known statement that confidentiality is being abused by people, that it works against its purpose, and that it is not at the best of the child. Although it may be difficult to see what we should actually do in order not to prevent the obligation of professional secrecy, I would have liked to hear what thoughts the Council of State is thinking about whether the obligation of professional secrecy is an obstacle today, for example. linked to the health sister. We heard a case at NRK this week about a dentist who discovered child abuse. He contacted the health sister, but he had to anonymise, and the child did not get help because the system and the confidentiality were perceived as an obstacle. I think that in this perspective and in the discussion we have related to kindergartens, it is very interesting to hear. I look forward to the further debate, and I think it's very interesting to hear what the other parties have related to what we can do more specifically to increase the competence of those who already work in kindergartens, and what more we can do about the education of future kindergarten workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e429	It is important that the various educational institutions have the opportunity, on the basis of the framework plan we decide, to specify the content and arrangements they should have for their education. But I have a very clear expectation that everyone who offers pre-school teacher training and teacher training will provide their students and candidates with training on this topic. That's because, point one, you have to be trained in what kind of behavior from children you have to look for if you're going to be an observant adult in kindergarten, and point two, because it's often quite difficult to deal with this kind of problem. There are children who go to kindergarten where the employees of the nursery probably know their parents quite well. They might be a little bit -- what do you say -- uncertain whether they actually observe correctly. It can be quite arduous to deal with parents in a situation where you might be walking around with a suspicion that these are children who are being abused. This situation requires considerable strength and requires good child care management. It is true that all employees in the kindergarten have an autonomous obligation to say from, but it is clear that a competent manager in a kindergarten will help and support the employees there by getting further informed about it. My clear expectation is that all educational establishments have a setup around this, and that all newly educated people will be trained in what to look for. However, there must be awareness in each kindergarten all around this, and therefore the competence strategy that we are going to present in the context of the 2013 EEAG is also an important part of this. Then I believe that the changes that have been made recently in the area of professional secrecy should safeguard the possibility that various professional groups that may come into contact with children who are victims of abuse and abuse have to alert, and that it cannot be perceived as an obstacle to alerting. But if there were examples of some weaknesses there, I'd like to see it. Where municipalities ensure that all different agencies cooperate well, kindergartens too will soon be able to be informed that child protection actually follows up the concerns that exist. They can be informed of the measures taken so that they can cooperate well around the child concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e440	I would also like to thank the representative of Hofstad Helleland for addressing such an important issue that contains so much evil for everyone involved. That the numbers of darkness are as high as they are referred to in the interpellation, says that we all have challenges – as fellow people, as kindergarten workers, or as big-time politicians. We can all contribute. In such a case as this, we should – in the same way as we have a zero vision of the number of fatalities in traffic – have a zero vision that prevents children from being subjected to abuse. Maybe an unattainable vision, but we have to be able to flag it. That is why such debates are important. We have to put this on the agenda, would talk about it, and not least recognize this as a major problem in society – here in the country, and in other countries. That the focus in this debate is on the work done by employees in kindergartens is understandable. I don't want to criticize them for doing a bad job in this area. I don't want to reduce the burden on them more than on the rest of us, but because the professionals are in as close contact with children in their everyday lives, it's important that they manage to see signs that things aren't as they should be, at as early a time as possible. As the Council of State said in its statement, the government has a great deal of attention to this issue, and so it is that we can all get better at alerting when we suspect that the abuse takes place. That those working with children in their daily lives should have the necessary skills to assess when there is a reason to report to the Child Welfare Service about the concern of a child is obvious. All employees of kindergartens and schools are subject to the obligation to provide information under different laws on child protection without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy when there is reason to believe that a child is being abused at home, or that other forms of serious care failure occur, or when a child has shown persistent serious behavioural problems. It just confirms that we're taking this seriously. The interpellant asks what the government is doing to ensure that employees acquire the necessary skills in this area. This government has done a lot and will still do a lot. Several important measures have been implemented to help make kindergartens better able to notify child protection about abuses and care failures. One measure is an amendment to the Child Protection Act, which gives kindergartens the right to receive feedback on concrete follow-up to the cases they have notified. This also contributes to better cooperation between child protection and kindergartens and to the knowledge of kindergartens as to whether or not the message of concern has been followed up. Another measure is that an adviser, as also referred to by the Council of State in its statement, has been created to address the pediatric area’s obligation to send a statement of concern. In addition, it is worth mentioning that, from 2005 until now, the Ministry of Knowledge has quadrupled the appropriations for various competence measures for child care staff – management training for directors, guidance services for newly educated pre-school teachers, competence measures for assistants in all counties, to name a few. However, it is important in this context to say that it is the responsibility of the nursery owner to provide his employees with the necessary skills in accordance with the legislation in force at all times. A lot is done, but there's still a lot left, and if you look at the numbers that both the interpellant and the state council referred to, they just confirm that. But the numbers that we're referring to here are statistics. The 2009 NOVA survey to which both of the two who had spoken before me pointed out that there is reason to believe that kindergartens send a few more concerns messages and have more contact with child protection than the official statistics on child protection. When we look at the figures and measures referred to by the Council of State, we can always discuss whether that is enough. As long as children are exposed to care failure, you will always be left with the feeling that you've done too little. It's not a good feeling. Then the comfort – if you can use such a word in this case – is that we all have to be happy that any matter that is reported can be an important contribution to one child’s becoming less involved in the terrible statistics on children who are subjected to serious care failure. We all have a responsibility, no matter where we have our job. Just to care and do their duty as a fellow human being in the responsibility to notify is of great importance, in addition to the work done by different bodies. My appeal to all of us is: we can all get better at preventing children from being subjected to abuse and care failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e470	Like the previous speakers, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising such an important topic and once again putting it on the agenda here in Stortinget. We're always talking about caring, that we all have a responsibility to see the children and alert, and that's very important. But it is worrying that so few warnings come from kindergartens. When we know that almost 94 pst. of all children staying in kindergarten – we know that the children are in kindergarten from early morning to afternoon – it is those who work in kindergarten, who have a great responsibility to see these children. They are the ones who see them in everyday life, who must have a responsibility to notify. We know that when a child hits and gets patches on his foot, maybe, or on his arm, they are very interested in showing this – look, I've got patches on! If a child is subjected to an assault, they're trying to hide it. Then it's the children's gardening staff's responsibility – it's going to ring some bells – to see this child, because we know that every child has a great loyalty to his parents, and they don't dare say that it's hurt, it's branded, has mom or dad caused. There's some of the important things about seeing these kids. So to what you can do. As the Council of State also stated, in the case of pre-school education, is it warned that this should be included as a theme in kindergarten teacher education, but is it enough? The new education will start in the autumn of 2013, but it will take three years for these pre-school teachers to complete their education. Then my suggestion here is to make sure that those who are already working in the kindergarten today may also need to undergo some course or obtain a requirement for competence in some way, so that they can get an update on how important it is to notify child protection. Many of those who work in kindergarten today have a course, among other things. in fire safety and HMS. Perhaps there would also have been a course for employees considering what they are looking for to see the children who are being abused. Today, all kindergartens are obliged to cooperate with schools, but they are not obliged to cooperate with child protection until something happens. Why is it so difficult for child protection to cooperate with kindergartens? Why can't the two bodies, both of whom are going to work for the children, cooperate a lot more and think that they're going to do what's best for the child, instead of sitting on each other's lap? It's very important that we have cross-border cooperation in place, and that kindergartens have a much better and closer cooperation with child protection. It should be formalised, and one must cooperate in this. Some kindergartens do it – I have to say that – and they have child protection at their staff meetings and at their parents’ meetings. Some kindergartens also have a much closer cooperation with the police. They often feel that it is easier to cooperate with and have information meetings with the police than it is to cooperate with child protection. So it's about the obligation of confidentiality, which many people have been involved in, and how important it is that we have a review of it. The most important thing here is to make sure that these children are not subjected to violence and abuse. Then we know that very many families who suspect that child protection has come into the picture, or that kindergartens have notified, have easily moved to another municipality. Then they disappear out of that municipality, and the children disappear out of that kindergarten. Therefore, it is important to put in place an alert system, so that the municipality is responsible for notifying the child protection in the municipality to which they move. It is also important that, when it is announced – as the interpellant was in it – the kindergartens receive feedback. Has anything been done about that matter, or has nothing been done about that matter? We don't have to worry anymore, because we have control, and we've done something, child protection can say. It also has to get into place, much better than it's been now. What's important here now is that we all have to focus on putting in place proper routines and getting this into pre-school education. Not least, I hope the Council of State can take this with them also with regard to those who work in kindergartens today, that they can also take courses and gain a higher level of competence on this very topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e498	This is a matter I wish was not a necessary or topical issue in Stortinget. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Thank you to Linda Hofstad Helleland, who is putting this on the agenda. It's an important thing. It's kind of cruel to think that every time we see a bunch of kids from a kindergarten playing or going, kids who feel like they're full of joy and life, the statistics say that more people in that group have been exposed to or have witnessed violence. Yes, it is even likely that someone in that flock has been sexually assaulted. It's quite incomprehensible to most of us that this can have such an extent, but precisely the incomprehensible is probably one of the greatest challenges. The incomprehensible is often difficult to see or at all to look for. It's such challenges it's our responsibility for politicians to address. Dealing with a conversation with children, colleagues or parents about these matters is demanding. It requires first of all good knowledge. This knowledge is deficient in most kindergartens today, and it is obvious that this has not been central to the training of staff in kindergartens. There has also been no systematic updating of the knowledge of those working in kindergartens. Here we need to make a quick effort! It is not quite true, by the way, that there is no follow-up of those who work in kindergartens to teach them about violence and abuse, but it is not done by the public. The systematic work takes place under the direction of, and at the initiative of, the Stine Sofies Foundation, an organisation that was set up just on the basis of a tragic case in which young children were subjected to sexual abuse and killed. It is rather strange that such a foundation needs to collect money and huge amounts of money year after year in order to keep public support, in order to carry out some of the training of kindergarten and school employees that should be a solar task for the public itself. The Stine Sofie Foundation has made a great effort, made a great material, and good leaders in kindergartens and schools around the country have taken them in and used their materials to make us all visible and teach us what to look for, and how to deal with such things. The foundation takes on the task and performs it in a good way. It's great, but it can't in any way relieve us of responsibility. We are responsible for meeting the need for pedagogical staff who can see the danger signals, who, on the basis of good training, can intervene in a pedagogical manner and, not least, help to prevent violence and abuse against children. The right will have this in place as a central part of the education, and it is with that commitment as the background that Hofstad Greece has brought the matter up in the Grand Duchy today. I know many employees in kindergarten and school who, in dealing with such matters, become insecure and feel like swimming incapacitated who have been thrown into deep water without bathing. We have to help them out of that uncertainty. Proper management is essential for the rest of their lives. The numbers we've heard today are tragic, and every single case, every single event, is tragic. This must well be the place where others have been in, in the political work where a zero vision must definitely be in place — without any disagreement. We can only achieve that by deploying resources. This can only be achieved by making the theme a central part of kindergarten teacher and teacher training. We can only achieve that by taking seriously the knowledge and commitment of fires like Ada Sofie Austegard and Stine Sofie's Foundation and giving them the natural space and the necessary support, so that the almost 90 000 who work in the nursery today get the knowledge and skills they need to see the children who are exposed. We can only achieve that by transforming the parties on the best interests of children into real politics. The Council of State has an overall responsibility for the follow-up of the children, from their start in kindergarten, until they have completed their education. Throughout this process, the fight against violence and abuse must also be intensified, only in this way can we ensure good results and new, better attitudes in future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e513	I must also thank the interpellant for putting a very important issue on the agenda – and also thank you to the Minister of Knowledge for the answer we have received. We know that the earlier a child who is exposed to care failure is discovered and action is taken, the more likely a positive development is. Or to put it another way: growing up with persistent care failure can ruin your life. With this background, we are constantly coming back to discussions about how we can make sure that more people get help as early as possible. All adults have a responsibility and a duty to report, and then we have to look at how we can bring down the threshold in order to warn of suspicion of care failure, whether it be neighboring, family, midwife in hospital, health centre, nursery worker or employees in school. When we know that the vast majority of children now go to kindergarten in Norway, and that there are kindergarten staff who are often adults who have the most frequent contact with their children outside the home, it is important that they have the skills to find out that the kids are not doing well, and not least how to deal with such issues. Kindergarten employees are often close to their parents, and it may be difficult to know when to notify. Many people hesitate to take up their concerns for fear of cooperation with their parents, they may be afraid of being wrong, and they may be afraid of breaking legal confidentiality, sail if you know you're exempt from professional secrecy. It is absolutely necessary to have knowledge of signs that children are exposed to, among other things. care failure and knowledge of current procedures for the cooperation of kindergarten with parents and with child protection. Studies have shown that kindergarten workers do not feel competent to deal with issues related to violence and child abuse. At that time, it is our responsibility to provide for empowerment, as the Minister of Knowledge also stated that a number of initiatives have been taken, and also through the new competence strategy that will be presented. We're looking forward to it coming in 2013. Both the inter-pellant and the minister refer to the NOVA monitoring survey. It is also mentioned in the Øie Committee settings for the benefit of children. Here it is noted that the reasons for the low number of concerns are more. It is also noted that the likelihood of reporting issues to child protection is greatest for kindergartens that have established relationships with child protection services and that have good experience with previous cooperation, and that there are twice as many municipal and private kindergartens reporting concerns. This shows that good cooperation relations are very important. The committee recommends that new childcare laws include a provision that the municipality is obliged to develop cooperation and knowledge-sharing procedures between kindergartens, childcare facilities, health centres and other relevant services and that this provision be included in new childcare laws. This was also pointed out by the Council of State in its presentation. We know it's been out at the hearing, and we're definitely going to come back to this. The Minister of Knowledge and Interpellant also referred to the supervisor who came in 2009 to strengthen cooperation between child protection and kindergarten. It shall contribute to enhancing the competence of both the kindergarten sector and the childcare service, as well as cooperation and communication. In order to get an overview of the knowledge, use and assessment of kindergartens, I am pleased that information on this is now being sought in the planned follow-up study on different aspects of the quality of kindergartens. A supervisor is all right, but we also need to know if it is being used, whether it has an effect, and I expect that we will receive feedback on the investigations that are being carried out, and that it will be followed up afterwards. Not long ago Message. St. 13 for 2011–2012 Welfare Education, Interaction in practice, was addressed. It also highlights the importance of cooperation and interaction, as well as the importance of violence, abuse and care failure as one of the areas of competence that is important for all welfare education. A very concrete example is the subject of pedagogics and student skills in the new primary school teacher training, which will provide teachers with knowledge of children in grief and crisis, abuse and difficult life situations in which children can come, so that they can take action early when needed. A continuous awareness and close cooperation are essential, and then it is important that the problem is constantly addressed – I am glad that the interpellant travels it here – and that there is a lot of commitment across politics in this matter. We need close cooperation between kindergarten and child protection, as well as school and child protection. It also requires close cooperation at ministerial level. We have now heard the Minister of Knowledge and her statement on what is being done by the Ministry of Knowledge, and it has not been long since we heard the Minister for Children and Gender Equality in another interview saying: ‘I am concerned that those working with children have sufficient knowledge to detect child abuse.’ This testifies to a general pressure on it, a general commitment. I am pleased that we have cross-ministerial agreement, and that we have a cross-political agreement on the importance of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e537	I would like to thank you for all the good speeches in the debate. I think we've had a very good debate, where we're assuming that maybe we're not quite satisfied with the state of things, and that we recognize that we can get a lot better and make babysitting better able to handle these things. I am very pleased that there is such a great political consensus about it. I very much agree with the article from the representative Kvifte Andresen from SV: It is good that we have a supervisor, it is very fine, but we have to know that it is used. It is important to know to us, as elected representatives, that the tools and tools for which politicians take the initiative are what the municipalities follow up, which the kindergartens follow up, and which benefit employees and children. I look forward to the competence strategy. Until then, the Ministry of Knowledge has an allocation of funds for training courses for assistants and professionals in kindergarten. It would have been interesting if the Council of State could say a little bit about the extent of these means and a little bit more concrete about what they're going to do. I am also pleased with the statement by the representative Harberg on the personal initiative that the Stine Sofies Foundation, together with Eli Rygg and others who are concerned with child abuse, has taken to increase the competence of the kindergarten around this problem. It just shows that there is a screaming need for more competence. When we travel around kindergartens, we also get a lot of feedback on the insecurity that comes with not having enough knowledge about how to deal with these things, having the feeling that you don't have enough knowledge about what symptoms to look for, and how to deal with the child, and not least about the adults. It's easy to get involved with us who have children even in kindergarten, and who have a very good relationship with kindergarten employees, that it's not easy to give a message like that or give a message like that when you know that you're going to meet and see your parents in your eyes the next day. Then you have to be quite sure of that feeling of stomach. I hope that, with this competence strategy, but also with pre-school teacher training, we will be able to get all kindergarten staff to thank you when you feel it is right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e549	I would like to thank you for a constructive and good debate on a subject on which, fortunately, it is a cross-political agreement that is important that kindergartens are attentive, competent and responsive. We take with us the speeches, the commitment and the suggestions that many have made here now, when we are going to make a big deal about the future kindergartens, and when we're going to discuss the competence strategy further. It gives us a good opportunity to translate this into even more concrete measures than we already have. We can certainly be more -- what to say -- systematic. But what I think is the most important thing is that this whole issue is owned locally. That's where you sit with local child protection, that's where you sit with kindergartens, that's where you have an opportunity to pull these different environments of competence together and find the good solutions around single children. If we then also manage to follow-up through pre-school teacher training, through child and youth worker training, through the possibilities of continuing training and other types of skills measures, and all the way take responsibility for the knowledge that the employees of kindergartens should have, we are able to make sure that we are in a situation where more people have knowledge, more people feel safe to take action, more people are able to stand in the situation where you might have to report to child protection about a parent you know well, and where it is very easy to look for excuses that you cannot possibly be right about what you have observed. But my impression is that in terms of both knowledge and courage – knowledge of laws and regulations, knowledge that professional secrecy should not be an obstacle – many more today than a few years ago. In this context, private organisations have also, for example: Stine Sofie's Foundation, it was very important, because it's just been getting attention. They can also contribute to this image. But it is our responsibility that we have education that prepares those who will work in the kindergarten, that we have management locally that ensures that it is followed up, that we point out that it is an important part of the children's garden's mission to see the most vulnerable children, and that they have the security and competence to take action and report to child protection when they believe that this is the basis. So they don't even have to make the quality assurance, they have to report their concerns, and then the child protection has to do its part.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e558	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e578	I'm sorry I was a bit anxious there, but this is an important matter, which is urgent. Let me first make the statement that interpellations are the kind of debate that I might like best in Stortinget, because it gives the opportunity to actually have a debate. I hope that we can get it today, that this can be a kind of political workshop that we can apply to the research report, which is suggested to us for the autumn. First, I must allow myself to provide some background information from the government's research barometer: The institution sector accounts for about 20 pst. of the total R & D expenditure in Norway. 17 pst. of all Norwegian scientific articles involving at least one institute researcher. The institution sector receives three times as much R & D income from Norwegian business as the UH sector does. The institutional sector accounts for the largest share of funding provided by Norway from the EU Framework Programmes. The institution sector receives almost all R & D funds from non-resident enterprises to Norway. The institution sector receives almost as high revenues from other public international sources of funding as from the EU. The institutes are very different. Technical and industrial institutes, socio-scientific institutes, environmental institutes, primary industry institutes and regional institutes have regional links, but also have something in common with all those mentioned above. Common to many of them, if not all, is that they are established to ensure the quality of research and to ensure that we have highly competent environments that can quickly orient themselves to the existing needs of work and management, as a complement to the UH sector, which may not be able to inform themselves in the same way as quickly in the terrain. The Government writes in the Research Barometer: ‘The main function of the Norwegian institute sector is to contribute applied research and knowledge development to industry, the public sector and society in general.’ However, the aim has also been to give greater freedom to research, to create greater confidence in the knowledge base for management and policy decisions by an arm's length distance between ordering and executing. It is clear that the opposition, and perhaps the other social debaters, will have greater confidence in the knowledge base than if knowledge comes directly from the government apparatus. I want to set a very good example, namely a colleague of State Council Halvorsen, former State Council Helen Bjørnøy. When we dealt with the big news of the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside of Lofoten and the Western Sea, Helen Bjørnøy was very clear that the information that came from the Institutes was to be made available to all actors in society – including the opposition to the Stortinget. This gave us a very good debate, a debate on political priorities, not so much a debate on the basis of knowledge. If I had to throw in a political slot, I would say that when the Council of State Solheim was going to deal with this matter in round no. 2, he was more concerned about talking about the moons and seagulls in the beach zone than he was busy talking about fish. Research, on which everyone had access, had shown that the fish would not have trouble drilling in the Lofoten and the West Pole. It was at least an excellent example from the then state council Bjørnøys on how this should and should be handled. So the question is, what is basic funding? We could have risked that this debate was just about it. But basic funding is more than strategic institute appropriations, and it's all the money that the institutes know they get 1 January, when the year starts, based on decisions in the Stortinget. This is the basis for the debate. Following the government's definition of basic appropriations, some of the institutions receive 4-5 pst. basic funding, while more than 50 pst. And some over 70 pst. A better illustration is that many institutes per research year receive NOK 200,000 in basic appropriations, while many institutions get up to and well over NOK 400,000, some over SEK 1 million. kr, and the record is 1.8 million. kr per year of research. This is the government's research barometer that says, not Tord Lien's investigation department. This is a competitive venue that is not fair – it is unfair. If an institute with 5 pst. basic funding shall compete with an institution of 70 pst. basic funding, where the cost of the individual research effort is already 70 pst. it is clear that that competition is mildly unfair. It's not even David's fight against Goliath. This also creates a sectorisation of the knowledge base. If an institution becomes entirely dependent on basic appropriations from one department, it will also be highly specialised in meeting the needs of that department and will be considered to be part of the department's apparatus. This, in turn, leads to a debate on the legitimacy of knowledge. If the distinction between the departments of the department and the institutes becomes unclear, the notion of professional neutrality and professionalism also disappears. Marine research is an example. The marine research institute is both a management body and a research institute, with great confidence both internationally and nationally, but the institute is challenged, according to the evaluation given the name Stø kurst, by the Institute of Marine Research. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘While fisheries management actors perceive that HI is an independent knowledge organisation, there is widespread suspicion in other environments that relations are too close between FKD and HI, and that its research and advice is too much influenced by the FKD’s policy agenda.’ Furthermore, the evaluation states that: ‘Oxford Research’ – the investigator–’ therefore recommends that FKD and HI initiate a discussion on the issue of legitimacy/ownership. In the discussion, it is important that other departments and Directorates are involved.’ Finally, it is important that the Council of State takes note. This bias in funding also makes strategic cooperation difficult, because it is difficult to participate in joint research projects when someone has 70 pst. And others have 50 pst. Strategic cooperation then becomes more difficult. Although there is a slightly greater level of funding in the various categories of institutions, the large imbalance between the categories creates challenges. Environmental institutes and primary industry institutes have competence in natural resources. The environmental institutes and the marine research institute have competence in fish, seabird and other marine environments. What is, in principle, most worrying is political governance. Some people may be responding to me calling it that, but we'll have to do that eventually. What is, in principle, perhaps most worrying about the social research institutes is that some of the social research institutes get a significant share of their government funding. In terms of the technical-industrial institutes, where you say 2+2=4, there's nothing you need to discuss, and Kristin Halvorsen and Tord Lien agree on that. But when it comes to research on how society works, it's harder to put two lines in the answer. Therefore, the funding of socio-scientific institutes is, in principle, the most worrying. An area in which we need more expertise is technology and society and how these relationships affect each other — how technology affects society. With today’s funding model, it is difficult to achieve synergies between the technical and industrial institutes and the social sciences institutes. I want to get short on two other issues. The Government writes in the Research Barometer: ‘The Institutes are thus the international bridgehead of Norwegian research and the most central supplier of applied research to industry and the public sector.’ This is not a budgetary debate, but one that affects the financial perspective is that if the UH sector participates in a programme in the EU, it will both cover the proportion of the equity and a solid bonus at the top, while the institutions will not be able to cover more than a fraction of the equity. It is not to stimulate the increased internationalisation of the activities of the institute sector. I hope that we can have a debate on this, both now and not least in the context of the research communication. The second thing we have to include in this debate is the boundaries between the university sector and the higher education sector, the institutes and the consultancy industry. The requirements for universities for more commercialisation and external financing push the institutes further towards the consulting industry. Future mergers between institutions and the UH sector will force a debate on these borderline moves. One of the major advantages of interpellations is that you don't have to conclude that it's so bastant, even if you're interpellant, but some goals we have to agree on. They're: greater level of financial equal treatment of institutions, regardless of their category of freedom for the institutions, which we have discussed several times good conditions for building up the competence of institutions to strengthen the international relevance and impact of Norwegian institutions; And, not least, it is important — and perhaps most importantly — to ensure that institutions are perceived as independent from central government, not to sector knowledge, but to ensure that knowledge is perceived as independent, even in the future. I should like to mention briefly the means of achieving this: all the institutions must be given nearly the same basic allocation and the publicly funded part of their competitive venues must be strengthened. It is the prime minister's prerogative to organise the government, but – a last call – perhaps you could look at whether to move the institutes to one department.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e679	I very much appreciate the fact that the representative Tord Lien uses the opportunity to participate in the government's brainstorming towards a new research report. This is an opportunity to address some issues that we come back to when we present the research report, and I think it is both fruitful and interesting to hear how other parties and other representatives think in that work. I'd like to accept those challenges, even though I'm not now bombastically going to send them out. The representative Tord Lien also took the liberty not to be so bombastic in his own conclusions, but to address some issues – and I would like to welcome them. We have committed to a long and broad process in connection with the research communication. We actually started in 2011 with the Scientific Year, to show that it was 200 years since Norway got its first university and science was institutionalized, and to have a wide range of resources to figure out what we need to know more about. This year, work has been taken over in an ordinary reporting process, in which a more systematic effort is being made to establish the knowledge base for the notification. Last week I presented the 2012 Research Barometer, which has also been in the interpellant, and this year it has had a particular focus on the institute sector. The barometer shall include, inter alia: provide the basis for a research policy dialogue between the sector and others interested in Norwegian research, and it will be an important part of the work on the research communication. The government wants a close dialogue and research policy to be broadly anchored in the Stortinget. The representative addresses several important questions in the interpellation, such as: he addresses the question of uncertainty related to research results. These are also of the important questions that politicians face in the knowledge society: When do we know enough to act? That is why the government put the question on the agenda at the conference ‘Can we trust science?’, which was organised during the Scientific Year last year. Here we were informed that scientific activities are based on questions, doubts and systematic criticism. A new research result, regardless of where it has been published or who has published it, can never be directly linked to the design of new policies. The consequences of trusting in early research can simply be too great. But at the same time, the consequences are huge unless we, as magnificence representatives and government members, take into account science – that is, in general, the whole of society. We need to act if the knowledge base is sound, and we need to show that political adjustments are necessary if the knowledge base is solid. But it is not that uncertainty about research results can be cleared up once and for all. We have to assume that we can constantly get up to date with new information that means we have to review them again. New research can contribute to this. We can, and should, help by creating a predictable framework for research, and then we have to let science go its own way and deal with the uncertainty that always relates to scientific activities when decisions have to be taken. The representative is quite right when he says that knowledge generated in the institute sector is a key provider of management and policy. The history of the institute sector is closely linked to political decisions. The sector can be understood as the result of a variety of policy initiatives and public actions. Institutions have developed at different times, with different reasons, different organisation and no overall plan. Most institutes were established on the basis of public initiatives by the research councils, departments, regional authorities or UH institutions. Many of them were created after World War II, as part of the reconstruction of Norway. They have made a significant contribution, through applied research and knowledge development, to the development of today’s business and not least the Norwegian welfare state. The sectoral ministries have had a strong role in building the institute sector. Many sectoral ministries continue to have a high level of responsibility for the institutions, both groups of institutions within the current basic allocation system and individual institutions outside the scheme. An important reason for this is the sector principle, which states that all departments are responsible for research on and for their own sector, and the institutes are important instruments for sectoral research. The institution sector must be understood in the light of the sectoral principle of Norwegian research. This has led to a variation between institutions in, inter alia: size, financing, professional specialisation and user orientation. However, there are some common features and trends in development. One common feature is that most have been established to contribute to applied knowledge production for society and business. At the same time, the framework conditions for the institutions and the needs of society are constantly changing. We therefore need to keep considering how institution policy should be set up in order to ensure that the sector can be stimulated and addressed in the best possible way by today's and tomorrow's challenges. The introduction of the new funding system in 2009 is closely linked to the performance of the institutions. The rationale was to create predictable frameworks while at the same time stimulating higher quality institutes and more relevant research. The introduction of the new basic funding system for research institutes also carried out a transfer of responsibility for individual institutes, so that five of the departments were given responsibility for the basic appropriations for four institute groups: the environmental institutes, the primary research institutes, the social sciences institutes and the technical and industrial institutes – the four so-called basic allocation areas. The breakdown into four distribution zones was based on an assessment of the specific nature of institutions and user groups. This ensures more equivalent competition for the part of the basic allocation redistributed annually after the results obtained. The contracting entities operate in different markets. It affects the overall income profile of the institutions. This could be done, for example, by: be reasonable to assume that the technical-industrial institutions have a larger supply market than the institutions working towards the primary industries and different public markets, for example. well-being and foreign affairs. The technical and industrial institutes have inter alia: therefore lower basic allocation shares than primary and social sciences. The variation is between 6 and 15 pst. for the groups of institutions and between 3 and 34 pst. for individual institutions covered by the new system. None of the institutions forming part of the State basic allocation area has basic appropriations or direct appropriations from the department of the order of magnitude mentioned by the representative Lien – namely 70 pst. The Arena breakdown also represents a new governance principle for the Ministries. Where, before 2009, the departments had a direct funding and governance line for each institution, the arena departments are now to finance the whole of the institute indirectly via the Norwegian Research Council – NFR. This implies a slight downscaling of the sector principle and gives institutions greater autonomy and responsibility for their own performance. The research institutes which are not mission institutes have been excluded from the funding system from 2009. These institutions are management institutions which typically receive a greater share of their income — basic appropriations or administrative support — through direct appropriations from a department, inter alia. because, in addition to carrying out research, they are entrusted with administrative tasks such as advice and monitoring. These tasks often require heavy investment in equipment and infrastructure, such as ships, research stations, etc. So these institutions have different roles and assumptions than the typical mission institutes. It can both explain and defend variations in funding. However, the issue of variation in institution funding is quite demanding and challenging, and it affects the responsibilities of many departments. Here we have to remember that the financial instrument was intended to give the entire sector incentives to focus on ways that promoted the main objectives – quality and relevance. Arena layout would create more equivalent competitive conditions. Competition and transparency are instruments to increase quality and relevance. In the research report, we will assess the experience we have so far from the funding system and come back to the questions raised in this interview. I welcome a debate and a discussion on this. I would also like to say that the Norwegian research institutes are vital and absolutely in good shape. They have a good scientific output, a positive production trend, they get a good record from the EU Framework Programmes and from the Research Council, and they take a large share of the revenue from public and national and international business activities. So at the same time, there are big differences between them. We'll definitely get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e711	I'm glad that the Council of State, like myself, appreciates these discussions. We talked a little bit about dialogue the last time we were together – I kept saying – in this room. I hope that the Council of State not only appreciates the dialogue, but will take note of some of the recordings that come – perhaps not only from me, but also from other representatives of big business – during the day. Governments say a lot of good, and it's doing a lot of good in the sector. We're going to be happy for that, and we're going to have to make it happen. But when it comes to different markets, not everything is quite right. It is clear that the Council of State is right that if the institutes had been removed and assembled in a research department or something like that, greater professional independence would probably have been achieved — perceived as a matter of professional independence — and less debated on the basis of knowledge. However, less political attention had probably also been paid by the Departments for Research. State Council Solhjell's institutes have between 5 and 15 pst. basic funding, and the State Council of the Brecks Institutes has between 30 and 70 pst. basic financing. These are competing with each other. They both work with natural resources, and a lot of the activities in these departments' institutes are overlapping, not just that there are different markets. The same applies to the Institutes of the State Council of Giske, which has between 5 and 15 pst. basic funding, and Berg-Hansen State Council institutes, which have up to 50 pst. – at least over 30 pst. – basic funding. This does not create good conditions for good competition, and it does not create good conditions for cooperation. Then I'm going to use the last minute to give the Council of State an opportunity for the European Research Area that is now being set up. From thematically oriented project funding – where Norway has succeeded, but not well enough, in getting involved, and where the institutes have been the spearhead in Norwegian success – to a more comprehensive integration of research into the co-operation countries. Is the research report going to focus on how to meet this, because this is going to be in many ways a new situation for our institutes and, to some extent, also for Research Norway? The most important point was what I started with: it's okay to have different markets to some extent. But it is also the case that institutions that are under different departments compete very much against each other on a very different basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e726	It's not necessarily so that the fairest thing is that everyone gets exactly equal to the percent. However, there should be reasonable reasons why different sectors should be dealt with in this case. I would like to go through that issue in connection with the research communication and invite you to some different approaches to that debate as well. There are good reasons why the various sectoral ministries should be responsible for research in their fields without directing research in their fields. But I think that we are well served that there is a strong awareness in all parts of society about the importance of gaining new knowledge in their fields, and – I also want to add – to have competence, educational capacity and recruitment basis in order to have sufficient and proper labour force to carry out the ambitions we have. I think it's important that all sectors of society have the ownership that research is necessary for the whole process of development, and that everyone has the ownership to get the best possible knowledge. There is, of course, some of the benefits of current sectoral responsibility in this area. So there might be other considerations that could draw the opposite way. But I think it's better that we have more to do with other sectors' attention, ability and will and desire to prioritise research in their fields. So for the discussion around the EU and the development of the EU framework programmes and the new programme, called Horizon 2020, to be implemented in the period 2014-2020. This is going to be challenging for Norway in many areas – firstly because our quota is growing significantly. The quota is determined by gross domestic product, and for us it includes oil. This means that the balance between the different countries’ contributions to a financial crisis situation in Europe is also quite different. Our ambitions to ensure that we get more in proportion to what we contribute to the EU Framework Programme are crucial. There we have STAAM, which has been very important to support the possibilities of making good applications and getting into those framework programmes. We also have the problem that Tord Lien raises that the content of these research programmes is going to change somewhat. I believe that this is also a topic mentioned in the research report.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e737	The interpellant invites a debate on the funding system for the institute sector. It is not more than three years old. Even if a funding system hardly comes under the guise of ‘holy’ or ‘eternal’, it seems a bit strange to take the debate now. I'll explain why I mean it. Of course, a funding system is not an overarching objective. It is only a means of achieving other research policy objectives. However, the debate in the Labour Party would like to be linked to the debate on the research message, which is not far away. Nor has any major claim been registered for the changes that Lien is asking for here today. On the contrary: from the institute sector itself there is no registered wish to do so. Sir. The line has used, in various respects, terms such as ‘savory root’ and ‘total absence of policy’ on funding the institutional sector. By the way, the last one, on issues of policy, is an expressed political goal for the Progress Party. Understand the one who can. With great professional weight, I will further show what the Research Council says about the theme. Yes, they say the following: The main elements of the institute's new basic exercise scheme should be fixed. Perhaps the most important argument to wait for this is that we are now in the process of reviewing and evaluating our research institutes. The result of this will be ready for the fall. This new system, introduced in 2009, is thus a new and partially performance-based funding system covering 51 research institutes. At the same time, the basic promise was also strengthened. The new system means, among other things. that parts of the institutions’ core commitments shall be allocated according to the results obtained for scientific publication, international revenues, cooperation with universities and higher education institutions, income from the Research Council and national mission revenue. For the first time, the Norwegian Research Institute will be covered by a common financing system designed to strengthen its specificity in the R & D system. So the interesting question is, what's so serious about this funding that it's quick to be called a happy root and total absence of politics? No, if something is bad in the system, the Labour Party finds it most natural to take the debate in the context of the debate on the research message and in close dialogue with the sector itself and the Research Council. Interpellant, sir. Lien further argues that the system creates ‘sectorisation of the knowledge base’, leads to ‘debate on the legitimacy of knowledge’ and makes bridge-building between institutions and the environment of competence difficult. No, once again, that's the wrong conclusion. The system helps to strengthen the uniqueness of different institutions in R & D work. This, of course, will also strengthen the legitimacy of the research they are doing, and there is no way to prevent the building of the environment of competence. But if one were to press ahead with some of the debate on the research messages and institutes' structure to promote research and innovation in Norwegian research, one will not ignore the establishment of an incentive scheme in line with what the university and university sectors have to stimulate cooperation, alliances or mergers. However, this debate may be taken into account in the debate on the research communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e752	The president is impressed by the insights of the Oslo representative Truls Wickholm, even though someone certainly has something to say on the speech of some words.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e755	As rapporteur for the new municipality of Volda, it was a pleasure to hear the representative from the Oslo Workers' Party just speaking. But back to the point: it is beyond doubt that the institute sector today delivers good quality research and plays a very important role in our research system. As the interpellant has pointed out, the institutes are currently carrying out important research in particular social and business life. In May, I was the case rapporteur for a proposal from the Left, which we discussed here in the Chamber, linked to the institutional sector. In connection with that, we pointed out that today's funding is historically conditional. On the right, we expect the Council of State and the Government to take this into account when examining the research report, and we expect this to be set out here as more objective criteria related to the funding system. Like the institute sector, the right-hand side has high expectations for the new research report, which we will deal with next year. In previous research reports, the Institute sector has been described to varying degrees. A thorough review was carried out in 2005 of Will for Research, which gave concrete results. The report on climate change for research, in 2008, did not mention the sector. This is something that is most recently set out in the Research Council's 2011 comprehensive report. In addition, in recent years, the sector has made significant changes, including: internationalisation and ownership structure. Nevertheless, there are still several challenges that we hope the government will address in the next message. Of course, this is the case with the funding system, on which the interpellant has challenged the Council of State today, but also with questions relating to, for example: organisation and structure. Of course, the answers we get from the government will also depend on what societal tasks we want the institutes to have in the future. Studies in the European context show that there is an increase in the attention of the institute sector at international level. Research and studies also show that the institutes play a crucial role in the triangle of business, state and universities. The right has greater ambitions for Norway as a research nation than today’s government has. Through our alternative budgets, we have clearly prioritised competence and knowledge, including: through increased appropriations for research. These ambitions and the associated priorities will also characterise our work on the future Research Communication. The right will also have extended contacts with the institute sector in the progress towards notification and will work for a good, fair and predictable funding system. That's exactly what we see is at the heart of the inter-pellant's questions to the Council of State today, and we believe that the government is taking these challenges into account in the work of the next research communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e781	Let me thank the interpellant for addressing a topic that is of great importance to knowledge development in Norway. As far as environmental management is concerned, and in many other areas of society, we have an ambition that all policy developments should be knowledge-based. It is almost not a matter that passes this process without having a heavy knowledge base attached to it. The important thing is that all the knowledge we build on has an independence, is transparent, transparent. Many areas of society were clearly distinguishing between research and management 10–20 years ago. In my view, it is absolutely essential to have confidence in the research that comes out. This is different in the different institutional sectors. Not everyone has done this distinction between research and management. The starting point for governance should be that the sectors should be responsible. If the sectors are not responsible, they will not contribute to financing either. However, the problem arises where different sectors and different departments differ in their approach to the management and financing of their sectors, especially when cross-departmental sectors compete in the same arena. The interpellant drew up work on management plans for the sea areas as an example of how a clear basis of expertise has been developed. I fully agree with that.The processes related to marine management plans have been open – transparent – and scientific and professional knowledge between sectors at institute level, which has made it much easier – and possible – to get good policy decisions. We have many other areas of society where professional debates are pushed up high and appear to be quasi-political disagreements. For example, there may be professional disagreements about wild breeds versus farmed salmon, which are converted into policies. How forests play a role in the climate system, and to what extent fjord deposits are possible to preserve life in the sea, can be other examples where we have a large and fractured base of science. The Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, Sintef and the Norwegian Institute of Water Research have made a joint input into the research report. There they address some of the issues we have been dealing with today. Their wish is that, in the future, a funding system be set up in which research institutes have equal access to public markets, irrespective of their organisational form and membership of the Ministry of Sectors and with a level playing field. Today, there are three evaluations of the institute sector to form the basis for the research notification work. One is the evaluation of the basic financial instrument. It is true that not many years have passed since its adoption, but it was also decided that this evaluation should take place now. I believe that the basic financing scheme we have today is significantly better than the scheme we had before. I also have to say that when the environmental institutes have such a low level of basic funding – and there is something positive in it if you consider them to be the institute – it means that they have been good at getting income from elsewhere. The problem arises if the same task is to be competed with other institutions with a much higher level of basic funding at the bottom. But it serves the environmental institutes to the credit that they've managed to collect so many missions from the outside. It also says something about how good they have been in relation to having increased levels of publication. The Ministry of Agriculture has carried out an evaluation of its institutes. The Ministry of Fisheries has carried out an evaluation of the Institute of Marine Research. In my view, it is important that these evaluations are also included in the work to be done with the research communication, so that we can get a holistic approach to this. Let me just end by saying that I think this is an area that is very important for research policy, because so much of the top research in Norway is happening in these institutes. If, in the future, we are able to improve this model, which is already far better than what we had before – on stability, integrity, the same opportunities for fair play and a level playing field – I am optimistic about the future of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e807	Now I've boasted a lot of interpellation as a form of debate in this room, but if I'm going to get a little complaint on it, it's that the interpellant doesn't get the last word. But the Rules of Procedure are the same, so it is! I want to thank you for a good debate with a lot of good input. But: The representative, Wickholm, said that this must be something that the representative, Lien – that is, the undersigned – has dictated, but that is not the case. On the contrary, Abelia and the Joint Arena of the Research Institutes say that the system needs to be changed. The funding system should be amended in order to create a better competitive venue. The representative Sørensen was concerned about the same thing: strategic bridge construction is becoming difficult, and with the funding we have in Norway, uncertainty about the knowledge base is created. I'm glad that the Council of State is as open as she is, but she says the goal is not as much as possible basic funding. I disagree a little bit about it; I think it has to be a goal. So I think the Council of State is right when she says that we need more expert councils, more politicians, to get funding for research. That's absolutely right to get, as she says, new knowledge in their fields. So maybe we just have to ignore the discussion about what kind of organization you have of the institutions. But it is the case that the institutes have a basic funding – and in many different competitive arenas, both nationally and internationally. I believe that the problem lies primarily in relation to basic funding. Although the Minister of Fisheries and the Minister of Agriculture wants to invest in food research, all the Councils of State in the Halvorsen College must be served by creating arenas that ensure that the best professional environments are strengthened. And you do that by giving everyone the same basic funding as possible, and then the investment in professional content gets to the open competitive areas. I don't think it's the way anyone thinks that government councillor Borten Moe, state councillor Giske and state councillor Solhjell – state councillor Halvorsen's colleagues – don't bet on research because their institutes have lower basic funding. That is the basic funding we are now discussing. Research can be carried out in other arenas. Then I thank everyone for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e824	The last speaker in this interpellation debate is Councillor Kristin Halvorsen. Then the representative Lien will consider taking up Storting's Rules of Procedure with the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e828	I should also just like to make a little visit to the representative Tord Lien: if it is that big business representatives disagree about the order, and whether it is the council that will come to the end, it is beyond my ability and the government's ability to influence, for here the Big business is totally sovereign! But I would like to thank you for this opportunity to put a stop to the debate. I think this is an interesting, important and significant debate. The distinction between research and management – the fact that you can have all the security that the knowledge base to be used in developing policies is basically that, what to say, unhindered as possible – I think is a very important and important discussion. As for how we get back to discussing the basic funding system, how pleased we are with the change that has been, if there are still some challenges and weaknesses, I would like to get back to this as well. It's a little bit of an advantage when you're given a new responsibility, that you can look at the discussions and considerations that have been made, with slightly different eyes and maybe with slightly different priorities than before. But I mainly agree with the representative Sørensen that the changes that were made have gone in the right direction and have been reasonable. Then we'll see how far one comes. There are also different funding possibilities in different areas of society. The challenge comes only when there are different areas of society that can deliver on a bit of the same kind of research, or research. Then you can get into some of the things that have been the starting point for more people in today's debate. We're taking this with us. We consider this to be a brainstorming in advance of the research report, as the representative Tord Lien said. We take with us the issues that have arisen in the debate and, if there are other things you would like to address, I would like to invite the representatives of the Committee – including those from the opposition – to participate in and contribute to interesting issues, and also to the various events that the Ministry of Knowledge itself wants to have as part of our open process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e841	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e857	Absence in secondary education is one of the main challenges of the education system. Non-response is one of the consequences of the school not reaching all students today. Cross-politically, we share an objective that as many as possible should complete secondary education in five years. Over several years, there has been a discouraging statistics on the number of students completing secondary education within five years. Last week the SSB presented new numbers that show that the number is still quite stable. The numbers show that 69 pst. of those who started high school in 2006 have completed in five years. This is the same as the 2004 coal, but 1 percentage point lower than the 2005 coal. The goal the government has set is to get into 75 pst. implementation. There are many reasons why students do not complete within five years. That's why the challenge has to be tackled by many different teams, and we have to be aware of what non-response really is. For my own part, I went to high school for five years and then worked for one year, before going to college. I really don't think it's been so bad with me, sail if I didn't go straight through high school. Therefore, we cannot view it as a disaster that not everyone has implemented within the time frame we have set as norm. The most important thing is that we ensure that all students achieve final competence in the form of diplomas, diplomas or letters of practice. Our students are in fierce competition for jobs in the future with students in Europe and the rest of the world. We're competing from a high-cost country. This means that we need to have knowledge and skills that make our young people better qualified for jobs in our country. We must then also be able to demonstrate this competence, in order to be competitive about the future jobs. I said earlier that non-compliance has many reasons. That means that we also have to tackle the problem from different angles of incidence. The statistics show a clear link between the knowledge and assumptions of the students when they begin higher education and the degree of completion five years later. Nine out of ten students who achieved the highest level from primary school and who started secondary education in 2006 completed their study or professional skills at a normal time. Almost all these students and apprentices completed the education in five years. Among those leaving primary school with fewer than 40 primary school credits, only half or less had formal qualifications. For example, only one out of three students and pupils with 30–34 primary school credits completed. Over 40 pst. of which ended in the course of education. Good basic knowledge is therefore a prerequisite for completion, and it has been grasped by this government. However, we must not forget that those students who have started school as six-year-olds have expanded school days, been through reading and math strategies and the introduction of the Knowledge Lift, do not go out of tenth grade until 2016. The impact of these measures on the implementation of higher education within five years, we will not see before 2021. We have to have this perspective inside as well. The students now assessed five years after graduating have not had primary education with the Knowledge promise. These students started high school when the Knowledge promise was introduced. All students who attend school today have undergone a number of changes during their schooling. The impact of the overall measures is difficult to measure since we never have time to see the full effect of a single reform before new interventions are launched. This does not mean that the Center Party is critical of adjustments, but we believe that this perspective is under-communicated today. Adjustments along the way are absolutely necessary. Such an adjustment to increase the degree of implementation is the project New GIV – or ‘New VRI’, which the representative Harberg called it earlier this winter. The project is three years old, and we are now ahead of the last year of the project period. It is therefore interesting to hear about the experience of the project so far, and discuss this in Stortinget, along the way. The project consists of three parts: The implementation barometer, which is a common objective for better implementation in secondary education and a common data and statistical basis for assessing the achievement of the objectives. It's very important. The follow-up project, which is better cooperation between the county and Nav on young people who have been out of education and working life over time. There's a lot of exciting projects here. The transitional project, which is systematic cooperation between municipalities and counties on the close follow-up of low-performance students who are not at risk of mastering secondary education. I have visited a good many schools in different places in the country that have participated in the project. On the basis of that and other available information, I have formed my picture of how the project has been received and worked with in high school and in high school. I have also visited and learned about the project where Nav and the County Council work together on the students, but that is perhaps the project I know least. What has struck me as the most important thing, especially among high school teachers, is the joy and benefit they have had from what they have learned in the course. The training of teachers has been aimed at providing them with knowledge of how to teach and better facilitate more practical learning. It tells me that we have a good deal to do in terms of practical and educational knowledge within the individual subject. It is good that the individual teacher in the New GIV project gets new knowledge, but what the schools have reported back is the positive effect this course has given of the transfer value for the rest of the school: Other teachers are being trained in practical training. The center party's starting point is that we're going to have a school that's so varied in methods and content that there's no need for projects like New GIV. It's our motivation to want changes in high school that put practical knowledge and more variation higher. It's about taking all the senses into use for learning, and then we also need to have knowledge of methods that can reach all the senses. A project like New GIV tells me that it is absolutely necessary that we follow up the development of the actions in high school through continuous focus. Motivation and learning ability are crucial for the individual student’s learning outcomes. With the latest major school reforms, students’ ability to choose more from their own interests has gradually weakened. For many students, the timetable is theoretically heavy and slightly motivating. For others, it feels that it is too challenging and with little opportunity to deepen itself professionally. Not many months ago, we debated the report on youth. The message refers to studies that show that lack of motivation and mastery is a trend that is exacerbated by youth. The result is that many students experience the school as of little relevance to their own lives and have difficulty seeing the value of the education given. At the same time as better adapted and varied training in basic subjects, there is a need for action that gives students greater motivation. The central party believes that the introduction of the electoral and labour professions will be important measures to increase motivation and mastery feeling and to allow for choices that may be made by more students. This will be an element in the choices and careers that can help to improve students’ prerequisites for completing secondary education. Statistics show that there is still a marked difference in the degree of completion between the different higher education programmes. A large proportion of students entering the preparatory education programme complete secondary education. 32,000 students started a preparatory education programme in 2006, and 83 pst. of which completed in five years. 50 pst. of the pupils who started in early 2006 initial secondary education, started in a vocational course. About 30 pst. of these students completed their education with a professional qualification or letter of formal qualifications. 25 pst. completed with study competence, while 45 pst. by students in the vocational education and training sectors, no formal qualifications were obtained within five years. The entire 28 pst. of these students had finished during the training course, while 9 pst. continued to be in secondary education. Only half of Norwegian students, starting from Vg1 construction technology, are currently completing their courses in five years. We can't have it that way. It is therefore absolutely necessary to take action along the way in order to adjust the course, as we have now done with various changes in secondary education, and as we have to do with changes in secondary education, especially in the professional disciplines, through the big news coming to spring. The Centre Party has addressed a number of changes in the professions and will follow them up in its work in the future. There are more flexible runs from Vg1, better apprenticeships and faster in practice, the right to post-graduate education, several ‘hybrid lines’ such as TAF, HAF or LAF, more entrepreneurship, more vocational correction of the common subject, continuing training for professionals, better counselling services, better health and social services and review of grant schemes, etc., etc. I hope that projects like New GIV will be redundant. We need a school to help everyone succeed. This means that the school has to make sure to meet the students in a way that educates, forms and motivates them for further education and professional life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e901	I thank you for this interpellation which the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has promoted here today, and for her commitment to these questions. In the government parties, we have worked closely together to ensure that we can set a bolder goal of completing higher education. For 15 years, since Reform 94, it has been so that at the base of 70 pst. have completed five years after leaving secondary school. We have much greater potential. Individual young people and society as a whole have a much greater potential for more people to implement. It's even more important than before, because we know it's going to be little space for those who only have primary school in the labour market of the future, and because we know that many children and young people have a much bigger potential than what they see in today's school. Ergo, we have some potential for growth that concerns both the personal development of the individual and the development of society. This is a complex topic, which was also discussed by the interpellant. It's not that we can just bet on one thing. It is also true that everything else we care about education is important to ensure that students carry the ballast they need to succeed in higher education: early work, closer follow-up of students, ensuring good teachers wherever they work in school, and upgrading youth as such is crucial for our success. I want to link some comments to the youth first. I've been very busy getting to a more practical, relevant and motivating high school. The representative of Tingelstad Wøien is also very concerned about it. This is the background to the recent big message to which the Stortinget has joined and which signals how incredibly important it is to have a diverse and liberal community school where students can show a little different aspects of themselves, and where not all education is based on a book, because very many learn as well through practical work as from the school book and out in practical work. The three most important measures in the context of the Youth Level Communication are the introduction of the choice field, increased flexibility in the professional and hourly distribution and the use of class management, reading, writing and billing. The heading above is motivation and mastering and more varied practical and relevant training. We have statistics that show that there are no students in Norwegian school who are as little motivated as the students who go in the 10th stage. That's the background for us to now take this particular grip. That means we're going to start a school-based development of competence in class management, accounting, reading and writing for teachers and school leaders. We're going to develop descriptions of what's good class management and good accounting, reading and writing instruction. We will provide assistance and organisation for local development work. We're going to have networks for exchange of experience and professional community. In order to succeed in these efforts, we need to disseminate priority actions in education policy, so that all levels of the education system see the direction we are going, so that we can play on a team. The whole background to the strategy we're now implementing to follow up the Youth Level Communication is to make sure that it's actually noticed for the students all the way into the classroom. There are too many of the good ideas that – to say the least – remain in the main hall, in the department or in the Education Directorate. But it's only when they're completed, so the students notice that they're more practical and varied, that we can say we're satisfied. Since 2005, we have been systematically committed to getting more students to complete higher education, but in 2010 we introduced some extra grants through the New GIV. Then I invited the different county councils to a much closer cooperation than was usual, on how to make practical changes in the school. The New GIV project has set itself the goal of bringing the implementation of higher education from 69 pst. to 75 pst. by 2015. It's a bold goal, but it's within what's realistic. It is good pedagogy to put some bold goals within what is realistic – we use that on ourselves as well. We have very good experience with the project New GIV. We're starting from exactly what the interpellant was also concerned about, namely that the basis that comes with us into high school is crucial for success. The students who are struggling with their achievements in high school are also struggling in high school. That's why reading, writing and counting are fundamental. Through this transitional project, we have offered extra training to students at Christmas time in the 10th stage. What we promise students is that they won't just get more of the old stuff, we promise that they'll work in other and more practical ways than they've experienced in school before. In return, we demand that they follow the offer they have made to participate in the contract. In the spring, 5,000 10th graders have received such intensified reading, writing and billing training. In the spring of 2013, we have ambitions to offer this to at least 6,000 students – that equals 10 pst. of the entire student coal. 234 municipalities, 611 secondary schools and 248 secondary schools participate so far. Our goal is to achieve in the last school year, all the municipalities will be involved. To date, 2000 teachers have received new schooling, updates and professional replenishment. During the autumn and winter, 1,500 new ones from all over the country will receive it. This means that we have 3,500 motivated, refreshed teachers who have been replenished for how to work properly. We're very concerned that they're going to bring it to their teachers' colleagues, so that it can help to develop the way the whole school works. Another important part of the measures we have is the vocational correction project. It is about how we will succeed better in vocational training, because the degree of implementation is lower in the professional field than in the preparatory study. We have very good experience and feedback on the skills that teachers have gained. 90 pst. They say they are satisfied with it, and the students also report back that they have met a different school than they have so far met — which has brought them many defeats until now in life. We now have our own interactive panel where many of the new GIV students discuss the training they have received through the project. They clearly confirm the impression that the NOVA report has given, that the measures we have, motivate, that they experience being seen — perhaps for the first time — that training is more relevant, motivating and varied, and that they are learning something. What they're also putting a lot of emphasis on is that they've been able to work in smaller groups through the New GIV bet, that it's easier for the teacher to see them and organize their needs – and not give up if there's something you don't understand. This is part of the recognition that we have to include in the work on a resource standard, which is based in Soria Moria, in order to ensure that there is sufficient teaching power to work in such ways in parts of the training. Another part of the New GIV project, the follow-up project and the follow-up service, has found many more students who are neither in education nor work, and together with Nav, it is necessary to ensure that each of them is closely followed up. There are students, of course, who choose the wrong course when they choose higher education, who may end up in the course and want to start again. You are allowed to choose again when you are 16-17 years old and do not have a full overview. But what worries us is if students are long away from high school, because then the threshold for hooking up again is so big. What's the key now is we're taking along the good experiences we have from the New GIV project. I fully agree with the interpellant that this has been a very successful project, but it is only 100 pst. successful when we take with us those experiences and let them permeate the whole way we work throughout our childhood, so that the students can be prepared at a much earlier time. Not only do those with poor school outcomes have poor school outcomes, they also often have a long line of defeats that are discouraging. I have great faith that we will be able to achieve – in cooperation with the school – a much more motivating and varied way of working that includes more children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e937	I would like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for a good and interesting answer. I think she had a lot of important things to do in order for us to be able to get more students to complete the school. The Minister of Knowledge mentioned, inter alia: at 90 pst. teachers thought that they used other educational methods and methods, and that the students were met by a new school or another type of school everyday life. It's really a paradox. It really only further strengthens my belief that the steps we are taking now — or are going to do — in high school in general are incredibly important. Because that's the way concreteization, as it's called, at the nursery – when we're sitting with blocks and a lot of other things at the same time as we're going to learn – we never grow from. Don't feel like we've grown from it, because we're not just sitting in here reading papers and we think we're getting wise. We're just going out into the country, out to schools, we're going to visit and talk to people in everyday life, and then we're also learning through concrete learning. It's kind of not something we grow from, it's something we live with our whole life. I also find it interesting to hear that there are more people in the student survey who believe that they have improved in school, and that a little over half think they are more motivated. That means there's still a lot to do. It is also important, as the minister of knowledge was concerned, to take into account that the motivation that is missing at the end of the 10th grade may not be attributed only to school everyday life. We know that there are very many who are struggling through a long life, I kept saying, until they're young, which I also think has been reflected in a previous interpellation here today, about children's challenges already from kindergarten by. Then I think it's incredibly good that we have found so many students who have been unknown, as it is called, and as the category is considered. I am very pleased to come from a state like Uppland, who has worked well in the follow-up service, sail before the New GIV project. I actually think that Uppland was the only county that had the control of where all of its students were. I think it's very important now that we get to bring up those states that haven't completely managed it. I think it's great that we've found so many thousands of students. Then I expect that all counties will also work well in the future. I look forward to an interesting debate and more interesting articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e955	It is quite right that Uppland states have been particularly good in the follow-up service and the cooperation between the follow-up service and Nav. They are an inspiration for all other states, because the follow-up service has received too little attention and has been far too little seen by politicians at the municipal level as well. They've called themselves the secret services. Now they're no longer secret. So over a decade they've found more than half of the 10,000 students we didn't know where was, who were neither in education nor in work, and they don't intend to go until they find the last one, just like they did in Uppland. I was told that they were missing one when I met them a while ago, and later I was told that the last one was found, so the monitoring system works maximum – no one can cheat away. It's important because the young people appreciate being seen and followed up, that someone demands them, and that someone cares about them. We care about each and every one of them, because we know that many people have more to do with – have more potential than they get to use – and a great opportunity to take a letter or get a study qualification even if they don't succeed today, and we're going to have that pressure. I tend to ask when I'm in meetings with just adults: how many of you can say with your hand on your heart that you adults have thought, "I wish I was 14 years old again?" So far, I've found five nationally. It's hard to be 14 years old, because then you're at a time when you switch between being a child and being an adult, and in the middle of it you have to make sure that you have a good basis for making right choices in the future and getting into the education you're interested in, and finding out what you're interested in. The more important it is that we are able to get to an inclusive school that allows you to go on in life with good basic skills in reading, writing and accounting, but also with the extra drive of learning and mastery, because there is no sense of duty, no tests, no grades — nothing — that can trump the real curiosity, the real pleasure of learning, the real desire to learn, that the meeting between varied, engaged educators and interested students can bring. That is what I hope the electoral professions will also contribute to. Then I also want us to think the same way about the students who are highly professional, for 17 pst. Young school students say they have too few challenges, and many of them do not meet the potential they should have. Therefore, part of this is also to ensure that students who are particularly professionally strong, who have some particular interests, are able to follow a different course from their classmates and take, for example: upper secondary education. Then we get our education to permeate the Norwegian school system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e966	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant Tingelstad Wøien for raising a problem that we are all concerned with, namely how to manage to prevent the drop-out in higher education. Our failure is higher than in many other countries in Europe, and we must recognise that we are therefore facing a major challenge. The drop-out here in Norway is not much higher than in the other countries because our students are less able to complete the education, but unfortunately it is a direct symptom that we have failed to create an inclusive school system adapted to the individual student. It is a symptom that the single school — or the inclusive school, as the Council of State just mentioned — has failed, and that we need to look at how we can change both primary and secondary schools. The projection also shows that the need for workers in knowledge-intensive professions will only grow, and we cannot afford to lose as many students on the road as we do today. Individuals can't afford to fall off along the way and not follow social developments, and society in general can't afford to lose as many students as we actually do today. The new GIV has been very good, and it has taken the non-response issue seriously. It also shows that the government has realised a principle that we in the Progress Party have been involved in for a long time, namely the need for more professionally differentiated education in the school. The right to adapted training shall apply to all pupils, both those who are highly skilled and those who have major challenges. We must therefore allow for more use of peer-to-peer education, precisely in order to safeguard this principle for more students. This has been a step in the right direction from the government. We hope it will be followed up, and that you also see the need to put this much earlier in school. At the same time, New GIV has brought about an important change in thinking, namely that it should also be allowed to be good at school. It's about professionally strong students being allowed to take a higher-level course. I believe that this is an incredibly good measure, which we must continue. But one challenge here is that there's a huge difference between states as to how many students get the opportunity to take a higher-level degree. It doesn't come from, for example, The students here in Oslo — many of whom have the opportunity — are either better or smarter than, for example, those in Oslo. The students from my state, where there is only one who has this opportunity. Much of the reason, I think, is that the schools have not had the will to facilitate the implementation of this, but there is also a lack of information about the existence of the scheme. I hope the Council of State can help with that work in the future, namely to inform more students that this possibility actually exists. Furthermore, we believe that New GIV is too late. If one is serious about adapted training and early effort, it is not useful to insert the large shock into the last half of the 10th class. It's not where you get the basic skills, it's not where – as the interpellant, Tingelstad Wøien, was in – you get the good basic competence, which is to prevent non-response later. This has to be in much earlier. That is one of the reasons why we in the Progress Party have raised issues such as: introduction of grades from the 5th stage, to make it easier to capture which students have additional challenges, or which students are extra professionally strong in several subjects, so that they can better provide organized education in the past. As both the Council of State and the inter-pellant were involved, the vast majority of the disqualifications occur in vocational education and training. Some reason is that many fall off because there are no apprenticeships, a little because the apprenticeship grant is too low, and a little because more apprentices point out that the pupils – the apprentices – who come out of school do not have enough professional weight in the subject in which they are learning. This is a bit of a reason why we in the Progress Party have promoted a proposal that has been discussed in the Committee now, namely to sharpen the Vg1 offer. The broad education programmes at Vg1 are experienced by very many people who are not too relevant, in the sense that they are, for example: learn everything from cutting meat to baking to cooking to pastry art, etc. When there are more professionals who may be struggling with motivation, it is important that they have the opportunity to learn their subject well and focus on a better professional concentration earlier in the education cycle. As I said, I agree with the inter-pellant, Tingelstad Wøien: we hope that the need for a scheme that New GIV will fail, in the sense that early efforts are being made, organized education for more students and a more varied day-to-day school, adapted to the individual student. Again: I want to thank the interpellant for addressing the problem. I look forward to getting a response to some of the challenges that I have now mentioned in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e996	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing a very important issue. This is a matter that the Right has raised a number of times, but we have experienced that we have spoken for deaf ears. The most important task of the school is to ensure that all students acquire the skills they need to master society and work that await them. Then it is alarming that one in five students today leave primary school without being able to write and read properly. We know that in the case of these students, they're more likely not to complete further education. With this background, the Right believes that it is obvious that we must succeed in early school efforts. The government — and the Council of State — is talking about early efforts, but it is difficult to see and understand how they follow this up in practice. It's a mystery to me that you should wait until spring in the 10th grade by putting measures in place. I don't call that 'early effort', as I understand the term. In the context of the Storting’s treatment of the school report, the Right took up this paradox. We believe that the tools in New GIV should be inserted into grade 8 already to capture and follow up as early as possible on those students who need extra follow-up. The central statistical agency recently provided up-to-date data on the flow of secondary education. Report establishes: ‘The flow rate in secondary education remains stable at 70 per cent.’ In other words, we're a long way from the New GIV national target of 75 pst. implementation in 2015 for the 2010 coal. 5 pst. More than 3,000 successful young people can either go out to work or go on to study. The government's own implementation barometer 2012:1 states: « the proportion that completes and lasts within five years has remained stable between 67 and 70 per cent since 1999. [[...]] Since 1999, the proportion of those who completed and who participated has fallen to the 2003 coal. Since then, the share has started to grow again, and for the 2005 coal level is the same as in 1999.’» In other words, it's hard to see the effect of New GIV. The right considers that this shows that it is necessary to rethink the work of getting as many students as possible to complete secondary education. The baggage that students carry with them from high school is important for their ability to complete secondary education. The report of the Statistical Central Bureau — which I was in charge of — also states that nine out of ten students with the highest level of education from primary school, who started secondary education in 2006, gained study or professional competence at a standard time. Almost all of these students completed their education in five years. Among those leaving primary school with fewer than 40 primary school credits, only half or less formal qualifications were obtained. It clearly shows that the fight against high school dropouts is being fought. Then, with all due respect, it's too late to wait until the 10th grade spring to do something. One of the EU's objectives in the field of education by 2020 is that the proportion of 15-year-olds with poor literacy, mathematics and natural sciences should be less than 15 pst. Then I think we have to take the goal of being at least as good. The interpellant also addresses the issue of non-response in its article. We know that non-response is highest in the professional field, and action must be taken to ensure that more people get through that way. The focus of the government's New GIV scheme is good, but it's too small, too late. If we're serious about the student leaving primary school with the necessary skills, if we're serious about early work, we have to help the students much sooner than after Christmas in the 10th grade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1032	Hearing representatives from the opposition shout ‘too little, too late’ sounds a little like ‘wolf, wolf’ in my ears. We might remember, for example. The debate – or there has certainly been some sort of review in all debates, but we have been strongly repudiated – when it was called ‘too little, too late’ in the context of the financial crisis, where it turned out that the government was well-directed through it. It seems to me that when the Right and Advance Party look at the New GIV, they see a program that is about differentiation of training in the 10th grade. For me, New GIV is about much more than that. This has in a way become a kind of straw strand for the opposition in order to claim that differentiation of training works well and will work consistently well at all school stages. We're always on what we've always been on, that it can be smart to differentiate education for groups over shorter periods. We are not for what I get at least a sense of when I hear Nävdal-Bolstad and Mette Hanekamhaug, namely that we are going to differentiate on a professional level over a longer period of time. This is not what the New GIV is about, and it is not a policy that the government wants. In addition, Hanekamhaug resumes the debate on grades from the 5th grade. Then I'm sure she would appreciate reading research from the University of Bergen. It sometimes surprises me, because the Progress Party is very much in order for us to bet on the best, and so am I, but then we also have to have confidence in the results that the best come up with. So when the best researchers find out that grades for children – young children – are working badly, then the Progress Party will not listen to it. They're very good for us to have a lot of good people, but we're not going to listen to them when they figure out what's good to do. I am constantly surprised that the Progress Party does not choose to look for research when it comes to designing its policy. I would also like to stress that I think the interpellant – I forgot initially to thank the interpellant for taking up an important theme, she has done – has a very important point when she stresses that the efforts we have made over the last few years at early work, at adapted training, at more schools already for the six-year-olds are bets we haven't seen the results of. When it comes to how early efforts do not work, when we know that the students who have been the most – let's say – have been subjected to early efforts, have not even been through the school year now, the argument is a little tedious for me. I think New GIV has been a good bet. These are very many elements, but I would also like to highlight in particular some of the things that the Council of State was about, namely the focus on professionalism. One of the important things there is the commitment we have had to the professional commons, which has been an ambition for several governments since 1994. The fact that we've finally started and got a project to work together and look at how we can use both programming in the community and in the community into the field of programming, and try to get out the best of two worlds by doing that, I think it's very important. It will be some of the things that can help to strengthen the motivation of those who are in the professional field, to feel that there is a relevance in what they are doing all the time, instead of having to jump between two worlds, where you are suddenly in the professional field one day, and then you are in such an academic world the next hour or the next day. I hear the Council of State say that there is something that will be considered further. I really hope so. I also hope that we will get more back to that in the new big message, because it is at least a very strong signal we get from both students and teachers in professional schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1045	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I also think it's really a bit of a nice debate, because we know here that the position and the opposition's basic questions come out well. I would like to say, in the case of the representative Hanekamhaug, who draws out that with differentiated education it is important, she does not say so, but I know that she would like to have differentiated education in different classes. Yes, we need to have differentiated education, but we need to have it in an inclusive school – not in our own classes, for example. throughout high school. We've tried that before. This often leads to a one-level lock-in, which will limit the individual student. You could get at the wrong level, and it's hard to get out of it. We don't want that. That's why we have to have flexibility in that differentiation, and then the teachers also have to have good knowledge and good educational background, so that they know how to teach in a very good way. New GIV is too late, it is said by the representatives of both the Progress Party and the Right. Yes, in a way it does. That's why this government has taken action and is adjusting it now. At the same time, I have to say it surprises me a little when the representative Nävdal-Bolstad also says that they have spoken for deaf ears and that they have said this before. I would then like to remind you that the promise of knowledge was also adopted by the same parties. Sometimes I've even got the impression that the Right believes it's their reform. Therefore, I think it is a little strange that not these grips were taken at the time – this is the adjustment based on the course in the Knowledge Lift we are now doing. Then I would also like to remind you, as the representative of Wickholm said, that the full effect of the New GIV is not yet visible. It's only been two years – it's supposed to be a three-year project. The full effect of the New GIV plus all other measures, 6-year-olds entering school, as I said, plus the Knowledge promise and completion of high school within five years, we won't see until 2021. We can't say that this doesn't work or that it's too late. That's exactly why we have a project – to measure the effect and whether we can see any effect now relative to whether you're moving from Vg1 to Vg2 for example. It's such a small parameter, and then we have to see how things are going after five years. I shall conclude and thank you for a good debate. I want to mention again what the Minister of Knowledge said, that a comprehensive strategy towards the same goal is incredibly important. And then the most important thing in school, I think, and as all teachers struggle with every day, is to have the opportunity to see every single student. It's about resources enough time to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1058	I do not believe what Anne Tingelstad Wøien concluded with, can be stressed enough, namely competent teachers who have the time and the opportunity to follow up each student. It's success factor No. 1st@item: inlistbox Competence in this context is also about being able to make teaching varied and motivating so that more students are taken. When you talk to students who have been in the New GIV, and you get stories that they've learned more in two months than they've learned throughout high school, it's kind of very happy, but first of all it's a serious cross of thoughts. That means they've met at an earlier stage a school that hasn't seen what resources they have, or managed to adapt to them in a way that has made them succeed. That's why we're now going to take with us the experience of New GIV, so they're going to permeate the whole way we're working at youth. That's what's behind the whole story of youth. This is not about introducing level differentiation in high school. It is precisely about providing adapted training, as was the case with the interpellant. We've tried level differentiation in Norway before. We had syllabus, but we lifted it on the boat because it meant that too many learned too little, and that it was the ambitions of the parents who decided what kind of syllabus they came under, and not what was the potential of the students. What we never have to give ourselves up on is that the students have to face challenges in relation to the starting point they have, and everyone has to have something to reach out for. That is why I am very concerned that all municipalities need to use the possibility that young people can follow part of the secondary education. I fully agree with the representative Hanekamhaug on this. Spread it around – there is no reason Oslo should be so dominant in this field. I believe that when we are now evaluating the Knowledge promise and coming back with our own big message about this on the spring part, a theme will be that the starting point that the Knowledge promise gave was too much academic of the school. It is an important and important debate, which I hear from very many teams. I mean now, exactly the same thing as the interpellant, that the things we are doing now adjust the Knowledge promise in a sensible direction, because it creates a more diverse, inclusive and varied way of meeting the students. So if we can take the best of the Knowledge promise and the best of the New GIV, we can really get to a school that gives more students the opportunity to succeed both through school and later in life. So I am also happy to come back to Stortinget with a systematic and thorough review of the Knowledge promise and in what way we are going to be able to combine this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1072	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1088	There are many minorities that have been badly treated by Norwegian authorities throughout Norwegian history. The Roma may be one of the least uproared groups who have received the least regret — if at all some — and who continue to experience discrimination. They don't feel sure that they are considered equivalent in Norwegian society. Especially is it that we haven't given them a complaint. What they deserve is the decisions in this Chamber when the Aliens Act of 1915 was passed. It stated that Gypsies were to be expelled from the kingdom – when the Romans had Norwegian passports, were born in Norway and had Norwegian citizenship, it was considered a public mistake. The passports they obtained were defined as ‘invalid and should be withdrawn’. In 1927 the law was further tightened. In 1934 we know what was going on in Europe. In 1934 a follow-up of 68 Romans, most of whom were Norwegian, was stopped at the Danish-German border at the request of the Norwegian authorities. The German authorities did what the German authorities did at the time: they interned the Norwegian spaces in a concentration camp, and only a handful of them survived at the end of World War II. After the war, the surviving group has fought for years to regain its Norwegian citizenship. The first one got it in 1956, the last one in 1972. That's something I think we should be ashamed of. Our whole community is set up for people to live in a fixed place. Around the world, we see people who live nomadic, have had weakened rights, weakened opportunities, and have been discriminated against. We have also had nomadic populations in Norway who have experienced this, for which we have managed to create good structures. What we have now done, for example. in relation to the Sami population in Norway, I think we can be quite proud of. But we have to take responsibility and find wise, good solutions adapted to the structures of individuals who live a little different than the rest of us. This is why it is important to have a dialogue with these peoples, which has been more or less absent in Norway. In school, it is difficult to combine cultural traditions with the fact that most Norwegian Roma travel in the period May–October. But there are exceptions. Some schools in Oslo, such as Sinsen School and Bjølsen School, have worked well at making agreements with each family and finding arrangements that make all the kids there get a good school. But it is quite clear that these schools actually break Norwegian legislation when they create these schemes, and it is far from all schools that are interested in doing so. The problem here lies with the Norwegian authorities. We have to have a dialogue, we have to have good systems, and we have to make sure that all the children get a good schooling, sail if they have a different cultural background. Another area is child protection. The left has repeatedly taken up that people like that. having a Sami background, should be followed up in foster homes by people who know Sami culture and are of Sami origin, so that children do not lose their cultural affiliation when taken over by child protection. In Norway, there is always — or almost always — the absence of foster families within the rooms. Here you might have seen this in a Scandinavian perspective, or you might have seen other ways of working with this group within child protection, like we do. have been dealing with many immigrant groups with other family structures. Here, family councils were used as one of the good ways to work with this in child protection. Taking care of culture means you have to have some engines that are the driving force in the cultural effort. In Sweden, there has been a systematic investment in cultural houses for the Roma. Both Malmö and Stockholm have a very successful information and knowledge centre for this group. They have worked a long time to get their own cultural home in Norway, or their own place of residence, to take care of both craft traditions and to communicate language and culture. We have our own State Secretary with responsibility for Sami issues. Nobody really has the responsibility for the Romans, whether they've been here since the 1600s and clearly is part of Norwegian culture. The government created an action plan in 2009. It said that one would have consultations that would meet regularly, and that there would be at least four meetings this year. Based on the information I have received, there have been two meetings since 2009. Very many of those who attended those meetings do not think they get proper answers to the questions they raise, and do not think that this council has worked with a good dialogue. In Sweden, we have seen good dialogue venues, where people feel that they are being taken seriously, where questions are being taken seriously, and where culture is being cared for. If we're going to be able to gain good and lasting trust between the Roma and Norwegian authorities, we need to talk to them, and not just about them. We need to discuss how to take care of this culture, which is part of Norwegian culture. Internationally, the Council of Europe has a convention on national minorities ratified by Norway. That means that we are not only responsible for the Roma with Norwegian citizenship, we are responsible for all the Roma in Norway. Amnesty estimates that there are between 10 and 12 million Roma in Europe. Many of them experience systematic discrimination on the labour market, in the housing market and in the judiciary. One out of five — and there are probably underreported figures, many countries conceal this in their statistics — have been subjected to racist-motivated crime, or have been regularly forced to move and experience living under extremely poor living conditions. Amnesty shows that Roma everywhere are trapped in a vicious circle between poverty and discrimination – where they do not have jobs where they do not have housing. Because of their ethnic and cultural background, they experience being left out, because much of the system we have in Europe is such that when you're out of work and in the labour market, you don't get to participate in society either. Then you get a picture that Romans are impossible to integrate. Let me mention some numbers from Europe. In Greece, only half of the romans go to school. In Latvia, there's only five pst. by the space people who have permanent work. In Slovakia is 70 pst. by the victims of trafficking in human beings. In Lithuania, only one third of the people living in space have a home with toilets of water. In Moldova, 59 pst lives. by the Roma in absolute poverty. In Hungary, the right-hand extreme Jobbik party, with resistance to spacemen as one of its main causes, has 17 pst. by the votes cast. In that case, it should not be surprising that some of them are applying for Norway. My question to the Council of State is whether she will take an initiative to strengthen the rights of Roma people both nationally and internationally, whether they might be able to get an excuse for the way we treated them during the war, and the way we took from them their citizenship, even though they were born and raised in Norway, and whether we can do anything to get the whole of public Norway to make good systems that enable a nomadic culture that has been in Europe – and Norway – since the 1600s, to take care of its culture, its language, and all the great things that lie in their culture, without them experiencing the discrimination and the harassment they experience in many places in Europe. I want to end by saying that this is a people who didn't have a writing language until the 1970s. It means that it's hard to build unity on culture -- or as one of them said to me, it will shape you when you grow up in a home where there's never been a bookcase. We have to build this culture to be strong and also to be able to take care of the great things in it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1118	Let me first thank the representative Skei Grande for addressing a very important matter. The representative is quite right that Roma experience systematic discrimination in a number of places in Europe. There is also reason to believe that the economic and social situation in Europe has led to more Roma living by begging. The representative also points to the serious fact that many Rom children do not attend school. The Romans are probably – I agree with Skei Grande in it – the most stigmatized group in Europe. In my view, it is necessary that we put the situation to the spaces on the political agenda. The last time Stortinget discussed this issue was on 18 January last year. At that time, the foreign minister responded to an interview from Lise Christoffersen. The representative Skei Grande is asking how the government will preserve the culture and history of the Norwegian Roma, and how the government can help to stop the persecution, and to improve the economic and social situation of the Roma in Europe, so that they do not have to beg. The questions are many and show that there are many government councils’ responsibilities involved. My department is responsible for coordinating and coordinating policy towards the Roma in Norway. As the representative of Skei Grande points out, Amnesty International says that the number of Romans in Norway may be up to 10,000. I understand that number is taken from the Council of Europe's information pages, but here are both Romans and romance/tatres. Internationally, these two groups are often referred to as Roma and related groups. The Council of Europe figures are re-based on reports from the state and minority organisations in Norway. The numbers are uncertain. My department estimates that the number of Norwegian Romans is about. 700 people. We have no figures for the number of Romans from other countries who are in addition for shorter or longer periods in Norway. As Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church, it is my job to ensure that the policy towards Norwegian Roma is consistent and coordinated. Among other things, it is my department that is responsible for coordinating the follow-up to this action plan in order to improve the living conditions of Roma in Oslo. It came in 2009. One of the most important measures in that plan is to further develop adult education for young adult Roma taking place at the Villarud in Oslo. It has operated the Municipality of Oslo since January 2007. In the autumn of 2009, a Roman guidance service was established in connection with the training measure. The service shall contribute to giving rooms real opportunities to use established welfare arrangements within, for example: education, employment, health and housing. The space measure at Oslo Adult Education In contact with the public administration and the first line service, there is little knowledge of Roma in general. Therefore, half-day seminars on the culture of the Roma were held in 2011 under the auspices of the Space Action and lived for first-line staff. The measure is continued in 2012. The measures operated by the Municipality of Oslo are operated with annual funding via my ministry budget. It has contributed to a positive development for the spaces. It is gratifying to see that the profiling of space culture in Norway is initiated by the rooms themselves. The annual Gypsy Festival in September contributes to the visibility of the culture of the Roma and several of the Norwegian Space Organisations cooperate on the annual marking of the International Space Day. It is very serious that many rum children do not receive the training they are entitled to. We know that the dropout among romans is huge, and that's a serious problem we're dealing with. It is also a topic that we regularly discuss with the Municipality of Oslo, and I am pleased that the Municipality of Oslo prioritises and uses its incentive grant for primary schools with Roma students. The pilot project adapted to space children, as agreed between the Municipality of Oslo and the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion, will also contribute to strengthening the follow-up of Roma at school age. Norway has, as the representative Skei Grande says, committed itself through the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities to the Protection of the Social and Cultural Rights of the Roma. One of the main principles of this Convention is that action should be developed in dialogue with the spaces themselves. I am concerned that we are able to establish structures that help to ensure the right of Romans to engage in dialogue with the Norwegian authorities. As Skei Grande says, there has been consultation with the group, also with my presence. The treatment to which the Roma are exposed in Europe today is unworthy. It has triggered an important European debate on discrimination and the marginalisation of Roma. The Government closely follows up on possible European measures relevant to Roman rights in Europe. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe Torbjørn Jagland took an important initiative when he invited him to a high-level meeting in autumn 2010 to discuss what he calls a ‘pan-European’ challenge that requires ‘pan-European’ action. The high-level meeting totals 29 countries. In addition, the EU Commission and representatives of the OSCE participated. From the Norwegian side, we will actively contribute to the constructive follow-up of the recommendations of the High Level Meeting on Roma in the Council of Europe. The situation of Roma was also addressed at the Istanbul Council of Ministers in May 2011, which reported on the measures to be taken to remedy the situation of Roma. The willingness of the EU, the OSCE and the Council of Europe to make an overall effort opens up a pan-European solution that would obviously be required in this matter. The Declarations of the 2010 High Level Meeting concluded that primary responsibility for Roma lies with the nation-states. At the same time, the participating countries recognised the need for more effective action in order to address the unworthy conditions of very many Roma. The declaration also points to the Roma's own responsibility for contributing to the improvement of their situation. One of the main actions of the High Level Meeting was the acceptance of Secretary-General Jagland to set up a training institute for brokers and a programme of legal advice for Roma so that they could better assert their rights. In addition, the Secretary-General has appointed a Special Representative for Roma. The EEA funds, which are the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, include support for Roma in the Central European countries. These funds enable the recipient countries to undertake activities to improve the situation of Roma at both local and national level and in several sectors. The people who beg on our streets are a complex group that many live under very difficult conditions. It is not illegal today to beg. There is no basis for claiming that most foreign tigers are involved in crime and that all the organisation of the business is trafficking in human beings. However, the police report increasingly that persons in the group of beggars, street musicians and street vendors also commit criminal acts of a different nature. There are also several examples of beggars being victims of human trafficking. When visiting Norway, non-residents must be treated as all other EU citizens during their stay. They are entitled to equivalent treatment, and they are to be met with respect. Of course, this also applies to beggars. Roma who commit criminal offences while in Norway should be treated on the basis of our legal system in the same way as all others who commit criminal offences. I will finally sum up by quoting Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre. He said in his speech to the European Parliament on 18 January last year that we must ‘approve of the situation of both European and local spaces’, and that, in line with the Strasbourg Declaration, we must ‘ensure that national, regional and local actions go hand in hand with efforts at European level’. Nationally, we follow up this work through the Government's Action Plan to improve the living conditions of Roma in Oslo. It is natural for us to have close contact with the Municipality of Oslo on these questions. Then it's also important that we review and see if there are things in our law, in the way we practice the law, which prevents finding good solutions for space people, based on their tradition and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1160	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was very real. But I have to say that when I've started working with this group, I experience two things: one is a deep fascination over culture. The second is a huge frustration — frustration at the fact that one feels poorly treated over a long period of time by the Norwegian big community, the feeling that one does not belong in any of the big communities, and that one is a group that historically has always been poorly treated. It is also interesting to discuss how many they are. I think most of us have experienced that we can repeatedly raise such a theme at a dinner table, and then stories about a people who don't define themselves as Romans, who still have deep roots in that culture, but that's something that is often not talked about. So maybe this is a larger part of us than those numbers were supposed to be. I think it's important that you talk to and not talk about. Then I have some specific questions to the Council of State. It is to get ahead of this council, increase its status and have a higher frequency at the meetings. The second is how we're going to look at the schools and the other laws around this, which make it possible for people to keep their culture and their traditions, but still have a good education. I'm happy with the schools that are capable of creating such systems, and we have to look at how we can transfer it to other schools. So to the international: I think that the Labour Party and the Left may have a long tradition of seeing when crime occurs, when the things referred to by the Council of State arise, that it can be associated with poor treatment of people, with poverty and with discrimination over time. I think we have to go to the roots behind what's happening in order to achieve the results that we want, and we don't want people to have to come to Norway to beg for it. It would also be interesting if the council could say something about an apology. I see when you read the story, especially what happened during the war and after the war, that we have something to be ashamed of, like the Norwegian state, about the way we treat these people. When we see how much respect we pledge to many of those who sacrificed a lot during the war, it is rather sad to see how we treat them as the victim so much, and who spent so long to get respect for what they sacrificed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1177	There is no doubt that there are many challenges to the situation of the Roma, and that there is a lot of discrimination both here in Norway and in Europe – I fully share that view with the representative of the Skei Grande. From the government's side, we've spent some time getting to grips with the recordings we got in the previous consultation with the rooms, both when it comes to school and not least housing, to look at the legislation. On the education side, we have been subjected to legal review, whether there are things in our national legislation and international legislation that are not related. That report has been received by the Ministry of Knowledge. The report states that there are no major inconsistencies between national and international law in the field of training. But I think quite clearly, as the representative Skei Grande says, that here it is possible to get more: use distance learning, work in other ways and assume that it is possible to organize education in another way. In my meeting with many of the room members they said that if we had a dwelling, we would have been more present. This is why the Ministry of Local Affairs has carried out an investigation into some of the same issues related to housing, focusing on the difficult situation experienced by many Roma in the housing market. One of the most important things I learned when I was visiting the Swedish environment was the success of assistants with space backgrounds in getting more kids through school. That's why we've now tried using the Nav system and the qualification programs there to train someone who can become an assistant, to help more kids get through school. In addition, we have a Los project, where families with children get one person to deal with, to ensure close and individual follow-up, to establish contact with the assistance service and to contribute to understanding the challenges of the target population. Because there is no doubt that there is a high level of absence in school. I agree with the representative of Skei Grande that we have much and thorough evidence of much of what happened during the war, and what happened to persecution and injustice for many groups in Norway, but not for this group. There is no doubt that the situation of 68 Norwegian Romans at that time was unworthy. The course of events and what actually happened is problematic, but we don't have enough knowledge about it. If the group takes it up with us, it has to be a will for us to go into that thematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1190	First, I would also like to thank the representative Skei Grande for addressing an important societal debate – a debate that gives us the opportunity to discuss how we can meet the challenges faced by different national minorities in Norway today. An important issue in this debate is the capacity of the large community to take care of the social and cultural life of different minorities. For the space people, challenges such as discrimination, low levels of integration and a poorly accessible welfare system have been identified. This is due, inter alia, to: illiteracy, prejudice against the group and structural barriers in society. It's also an explicit challenge for many of the space people that they don't have enough reading and writing skills. This puts these individuals in an impossible situation with public authorities and others. To me, it is obvious that there is a cultural conflict between a nomadic life and the local life in which the vast majority of the North live. Permanent residence is the basis of too much of our social system. The rights to housing and welfare services are often linked to lasting rights in a municipality. The question will then be how to confidently find good solutions for the space people, solutions that both facilitate the social life of space, and that also maintain the requirements of the authorities to build up welfare rights. It is my opinion that Sami language and culture would be in a much more difficult situation if special measures had not been taken – measures that alone target Sami society and that have once again been crucial to their language and culture. The need for positive discrimination is therefore also important in this case. In its action plan to improve the living conditions of Roma in Oslo, the Government has promoted several different actions to be undertaken in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, where most of the Roma live. Many of these measures are specific and include: intention to provide adult training to adults without literacy. Another important challenge addressed by the Action Plan is the situation of space children and their ability to complete a good basic education. How to ensure this poses challenges because nomadic culture differs significantly from a school system with school circuits and classroom education. The solution to this challenge is under investigation by the Ministry of Knowledge. This is a challenge that is both international and national, as the United Nations Children’s Committee commented on Norway’s second report on the follow-up to the Rome Convention. In my opinion, it is important that the investigation is carried out quickly and thoroughly. The responsibility lies with the Ministry of Knowledge. The Ministry of Knowledge is also responsible for several other language training measures for the Roma people, together with the Municipality of Oslo. It is important that children receive good initial training if poverty problems are to be solved for this group in the future. I can't say whether beg as income, or any other form of wage work, is to favor individuals, but I'm going to assume that the majority of beggars want to work instead of begging. Today, in Norway, we have a good labour market — a good labour market that will also provide space and opportunities for groups of people living in space in Norway — while the situation in Europe is completely different. However, as I have already discussed and problematized, literacy and literacy skills are crucial to making use of this possibility. Therefore, an active language policy is important and correct in addressing and resolving some of the poverty problems of the Roma population. I will end by stressing my starting point, how important it is for the big community to actively organise for minorities, and for positive discrimination where necessary – to ensure that our national minorities are able to live well, culturally and economically, in Norway in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1214	Also, I want to start by thanking the interpellant for putting higher on the agenda not only one, but more interesting questions. If I can add an ever so small criticism, I might say that the interpellation could be even better if you hadn't been hurt to mix up more problem areas – which in themselves are interesting. I'll give you an example. In fact, by the fact that the interpellant itself calls this group the Norwegian Space People, the interpellant has thus itself expressed her distinction between the Norwegian Space People and those who can make a pressure against the borders of several nation states. There are two distinct groups, although in a distant past they may have had a comparable ethnic origin. I don't think there's any contribution to building up the prejudices against the Norwegian Roma people when they say that they feed on begging. That's not the situation. Those who feed on begging are, for one thing, other people – from other nations – than aliens. To the extent that there are romans and they are overrepresented among the beggars, they have entered for the purpose. I'm also a little bit questioning about the history we get about the ability of the Norwegian welfare state to take care of what we used to call gypsies, which are aliens. In my history of municipal politics, I had the joy of being the leader of what was called Social Security in the Municipality of Oslo. We were supervising all the measures taken for the gypsies. The Municipality of Oslo was the main host town for the sigmas – as it was called – also those who contributed to full housing coverage for Roma people. However, they had a preferred life pattern that didn't make the kids mess up, didn't get stuck in school. Of course, it has helped to reproduce some living conditions disadvantages for this group. I still believe that there is reason to follow the sociological development of the Norwegian Roma people and see if there is anything that the Norwegian welfare state can develop, which means that no group that we are responsible for in Norway falls outside the good welfare state. The interpellation also refers to violations of human rights against the group of space people, which account for between 10 and 12 million people. Unlike the state councils and the inter-pellant, there is an international agreement on that figure. Both Amnesty International and the Council of Europe agree that this is between 10 and 12 million. Just two weeks ago, the European Commission promoted a strategy on how Member States should organise and include the space people in their responsibilities, but they start their strategy by telling Member States that it is those who have primary responsibility, based on their proximity to the population and on their competence and knowledge, to just include marginalised population groups. It's always a national responsibility. I cannot therefore agree with the interpellant when she says that we not only have a responsibility for the Norwegian Roma people, but that in principle we have responsibility for everyone. It is at least not in line with the European approach to this area. In addition, a report has just been presented that gives a complete overview of the different approaches of all Member States to contribute to this inclusion. It is based on four main pillars: integration into the labour market, ensuring that children come to school, making an effort to settle, even though a large part chooses to maintain a nomadic travel pattern, and – the fourth pillar – that with health, you do not fall out of the health service that should be the basis of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1233	Yes, there have been many who have tried to help out over time. There has also been a lot of faulty help. The representative, Tetzschner, accuses me of mixing different issues. My starting point is that we have signed the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Minorities. Then we are responsible for it, as long as they stay within Norwegian borders, and then there are people who have had a long relationship as Norwegian citizens – whether they have been deprived of their citizenship for periods – to Norway, and then there are those who come here for shorter or longer periods, but we still have international responsibility. I also believe that the way we have used our EU funds in a number of countries shows that we have actually been involved in this in other European countries as well – and have been aware of our responsibilities. What I want to say in the end is that I hope we get bigger debates on this, and that it is not just the Right and the Labour Party that chooses to participate. I think it's important to provide processes that make people feel that they have power over their own lives. We don't have a very good Norwegian word for «empowerment», but it's a good English word, which is also about giving people the opportunity to influence their own life situation. Then it's very important to talk to – and not about –. There are few in this group who are politically active in a political party, there are few of those who are involved and influence Norwegian policy in any area, and few of them are able to mobilize people in this room to discuss their situation. That means we have a challenge. Nomadic minorities have always had greater problems exercising their rights than permanent minorities. It's always been like that. In addition, when they have the second great stigma for minorities, that they are a linguistic minority — a linguistic minority that has not had a written language in addition — they experience the second great stigma that makes it difficult to achieve integration. We've learned to live with different cultures and different cultural expressions. We've learned to live with different religious minorities. We've learned to live with many minorities on different fronts, but when there's both a linguistic minority and a nomadic minority, there are very big challenges to doing something. The left is that you should always create systems around people. You shouldn't put people into systems, and that means putting people first. For us, it's important to take people's culture and life situation seriously, and then we're going to try to create systems that allow them to live full and good lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1248	I would also like to thank you for a good debate and for your involvement in focusing on an area that needs to be focused, both here in Norway and in Europe. There is no doubt – as others have said here – that the space people are stigmatised in Europe. It's a minority that has many demanding challenges. So I think that one of the most important things we can do on the Norwegian side to meet the big challenge out there among the between 10 and 12 million people who have a space background is to contribute in those countries where there are large population concentrations, such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, and use our EEA funds there. That's how we can improve the living conditions of people where they live, because there are many of them who have very difficult situations. So I don't know if it was a misunderstanding, but I don't know if it's between 10 and 12 million people with space background in Europe, but we don't quite know that there are 10,000 in Norway. The background for this, I think, is that in Norway we divide people into two categories: space and romance, and in the group that we define as space, we assume that there are about 700 residents in Norway. Then for long periods more are here. For those who have a firm hold in Norway, I think the most important thing is that we bet at school, at school, and at school. Getting more through school, taking education and giving them the opportunity to get into work will probably be the best way to meet the challenges in this area. Then I think we need to learn a little bit from what we've done in the Sami area. Taking in new ways of teaching and being able to use technological solutions with regard to those who are in a nomadic culture, I think is one of the most important things. Then we have a challenge to make some arenas where you meet more often, where culture can get an expression. The Gypsy festival and other markings are good, and I think the centre that's being built on Skaldrud can be a good engine for this in Oslo further. Then we have to work on the housing situation, because there is no doubt that many people with a space background also experience great discrimination when they are going to get housing. In particular, there is a theme that we need to look at, and there are now good instruments in the Ministry's budget that can also be used to meet some of those groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1261	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over. Case No. 1–5 are all interpellations, and therefore there is no votering theme. It will therefore not be called to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-08.ana.ud1343e1276	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
