ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e76	The representative Thomas Breen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The former deputy representative of the South-Trundellag County, Knut Gravrök, has again taken the seat. They called for alternates, for the More and Romsdal counties of Åge Austheim, and for the Eastfold counties of Stein Erik Lauvås, have taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe before the Presidential elections of Russia, in Moscow from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on welfare leave for the representative Arne Sortevik from 7 February until 9 February from the Group of the European Right on health leave for the representative Gunnar Gundersen from 7 February until further notice from the representative Jan Tore Sanner on leave on Tuesday 7 February to attend the meeting of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels from the Group of the Right on welfare leave for the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve Tuesday 7 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Bente Stein MathisenFor Hedmark County: Eli SkolalandFor Hordaland County: Torcil ÅlandFor More and Romesdal County: Torgeir DahlFor Rogaland County: Terje Halleland
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e159	Bente Stein Mathisen, Eli Skoland, Torkil Åmland, Torgeir Dahl and Terje Halleland are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e168	The representative, Mr Dagfinn Højbrätten, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e171	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Laila Davøy, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I would like to propose a proposal for the introduction of an anti-slavery day in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e176	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 on the current map has been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 2 to 9 at the end of the day’s meeting. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e196	I will now present the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the two constitutional proposals to which the President has just referred. In Document No: 12:1 for 2007-2008 two proposals have been made for amendments to the Constitution § 93. In proposal No 1, by Per-Kristian Foss, Inge Wohnning, Marianne Aasen and Svein Roald Hansen, it is proposed that the consent of the Storting to the waiver of sovereignty should be given by a two-thirds majority if an advisory referendum has only been held. In proposal No 24, put forward by Rune J. Skjellaaen, Anna Ceselie Brustad Moe and Kari Mette Prestrud, is proposed to add paragraph 93 to clarify that it is mandatory to hold a referendum in § 93-related cases and that such referenda should be advisory. Since the proposals put forward concern amendments to the same constitutional provision, if not to the same part of the provision, the Committee chooses to deal with the proposals in the same position, in line with the third paragraph of Section 20 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. These proposals affect different sections of Section 93 and will have different effects if they are adopted. The size must therefore be determined on a case-by-case basis. The provision of Paragraph 93 of the Basic Law was adopted in 1962, allowing Norway to waive sovereignty in a limited area to international organisations. But the proposal for such a paragraph is older. It was already promoted in 1952 by, among others. Rakel Sewerin from Arbeiderpartiet and Herman Smitt-Ingebritsen from Right. The proposal was not adopted at that time, because there was no current need, and because many wanted a different design of the proposal, which required a two-thirds majority, but without reference to referendum. The same was true in 1960, when the proposal was back up. In 1962 the proposal was incorporated into the Constitution and then with an alternative as prescribed by the three-quarters majority. So paragraph 93 of the Basic Law gives an opening to transfer sovereignty to a defined area. It has been used once when we adopted the EEA Agreement. This paragraph has been inserted in order to ensure that the Constitution does not prevent Norway from being an active participant in a move towards stronger and more comprehensive committed cooperation between countries in order to ensure international peace and security or to promote international legal order. Since the Second World War, we have had a development in which we have gradually built up international bodies and agreements, which are more and more committed to participating countries. There has been a broad political consensus on which we have been wholeheartedly supportive in Norway throughout the post-war period. Norway has signed around 900 international agreements that are, to a greater or lesser extent, narrowing down our scope of action. Once we've done that, it's because it's been in our own interest, which the proposers also point out. Major common challenges at international level, such as climate change, poverty reduction and international crime and terrorism, create the need for more and stronger committed cooperation between countries. It requires countries to be willing to transfer some of their sovereignty to joint international bodies based on democratic principles. The requirement of the Basic Law on the transfer of powers under Section 93 is more stringent than the requirement for amendments to the Constitution: three-quarters majority. This requirement is understood in the light of the rules of § 112 on constitutional changes. Thus, as a starting point, such a decision will have to be taken in accordance with the rules on constitutional amendment, where there is a sufficient majority of two thirds, but where proposals for such a change must rest on elections. The Committee, like the proposers, points out that the latter part of the constitutional amendment procedure is, in principle, very important. In accordance with fundamental thinking about popular sovereignty, it marks that the Constitution is the property of the people, not of the Stortinges alone. The Constitutional Act § 93 makes it possible to decide on the transfer of sovereignty without waiting for the next choice. The three-quarters majority requirement shall compensate for the loss of that democratic guarantee. That is an addition in the form of a new term we are going to decide when we are going to consider proposal No. 1 in Document 12:1. On condition that a referendum is held, the proposers consider that a two-thirds majority is sufficient. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Progress Party, Marit Nybakk and myself from the Labour Party and Foss from the Right, agree with the proposers. As this majority sees it, the reality of the present proposal is a desire for the minority to be able to block and vote down a majority in the Grand Duchy and in the people, from one fourth to one third. The assumption is that an advisory referendum has been held prior to the treatment of the Storting. This latter is important because the change will strengthen the influence of the referendum in the decision-making process. Constitutional responsibility will remain in Stortinget, in this room. Sovereignty transfer is a serious matter, and minority protection must be strong, but when the people are given an opportunity to advise the Storting, both should and will provide guidance for the treatment here in the Chamber. Respect for the decision of the people should be expressed by the fact that the requirement for a qualified majority is somewhat less than when a referendum has not been held. Votes have been used very few times in national politics. It was used when deciding whether Norway would continue to be a kingdom or a republic, and at the break-up of Sweden in 1905. As far as our foreign policy is concerned, it has been used twice, in connection with our applications to join the EU. This has created a habit. If the question of EU membership were to be re-updated, there is a cross-political consensus that it cannot be relevant to such inclusion without first obtaining the advice of the people. Proposalers point out that there is a broad political consensus that the outcome of a referendum should be respected, even though it is of course advisory. Once the people have been given the opportunity to give advice to the Stortinget, it will be politically decisive for the treatment of the Stortinget. Therefore, it should also be expressed by the fact that the requirement for a qualified majority is somewhat less than if it had not been a referendum. The majority of the Committee agrees with this reasoning. The solution to the proposal is to maintain the general rules of Section 93 as it now reads, but to add a new second paragraph that two thirds of the majority are sufficient under certain conditions. This also opens up an option that is not available in today's system. In this way, the first thing to do is to take care of today's possibility of moving faster than under § 112, but without going the way of referendum. This access was used to allow Norwegian participation in the EEA. But then there will still be a need for a three-quarters majority. The proposal presupposes that the referendum and the roll-out decision relate to the same case complex, that the options presented to the voters are essentially clear, and that the matter is decided in the Storting within a reasonable time after the outcome of the referendum is clear. The proposal is promoted in two alternatives where the same reality is expressed in slightly different ways. The specific proposals are set out in the vote. As is also apparent from the referral, the majority of the Committee proposes that option 1 of the proposal be endorsed by the Stortinget. A minority, consisting of the members of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, will not agree with the proposal on the grounds that the change would result in the majority requirement being the same as for constitutional changes, and they are of the opinion that decisions under Section 93 should not be weaker than under the constitutional amendment under Section 112. In other words, they want the voters to be able to influence the composition of the magnificence to be taken in accordance with Section 112. The same members also believe that the majority of the caste will legally eliminate the minority guarantee in the matter of sovereignty waivers that have been endorsed by a simple majority in a referendum and that this is contrary to their understanding of the Constitution. The majority disagree with this reasoning. Of course, the minority itself will elaborate and explain its proposals. Another minority, consisting of the members of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, believe that the proposed addition of Section 93 will also not clarify the relation between referendum and accumulation, which these members can accept. I assume that they also justify this for themselves. A minority in the Labour Party believes that there should be a common understanding in the Stortinget of the reason for changes in sovereignty and therefore advises the Stortinget not to endorse the proposal. The second proposal we are going to consider in this vote is therefore proposal No. 24th@item: inlistbox An addendum is proposed in Section 93 that it should be mandatory to hold a referendum on § 93-related matters and that such referenda should be advisory. The proposers argue that in the referendums in 1972 and 1994, there were conflicting views on how the Storting should deal with the outcome of the referendums. They point out that this discussion will again be updated in future referendums. If the outcome of a referendum contrasts with what the majority of members of the Grand Duchy stand for, then the proposers believe that the legislation can still be potentially crisis-making. The proposers believe that this can best be prevented by clarifying the institutional exclusive competence of the Storting in order to counter a decision-making crisis. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, indicate that the two votes on Norwegian membership of the European Community and the European Union, respectively in 1972 and 1994, have established the custom of the People's Council to be obtained through an advisory referendum, and that a constitutional amendment is not necessary to ensure that the procedure remains the same if the issue of Norwegian membership of the European Union is to become relevant again. However, the same majority believe that there may be cases where a waiver of sovereignty is necessary in much more restricted areas and which are hopefully much less controversial. On this basis, the majority would not agree to proposal No. 24th@item: inlistbox The members of the Committee of the Socialist Left and the Centre are of a different opinion, and they themselves want to explain this. Finally, the changes in the Constitution that we are about to decide on here today are important because they affect something as central as the relationship between the Storting and the people. What weight should be given to a referendum? How small should a minority with the right to vote down a majority of the people be? And: Should referendums always be held when the surrender of sovereignty is due? These are important issues on which there are many opinions, as reflected in the attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee. I recommend Stortinget to vote in favour of the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e263	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done in dealing with the matter in committee, and not least for the thorough review of the committee's position and the various views reflected in the committee's position, as the rapporteur here explained in the speech. The article was almost so good that I could have ended here as most views have actually now come to terms from the pulpit, but I still think there is a basis for saying a few words. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that this is an important connection between this house and the people. Constitutional changes in general are important issues. It's important for Stortinget to deal with constitutional issues, to think in the long term. It is important not to dig into individual things, for constitutional changes should remain standing, if not forever, so in any case for a very, very long time. It is then appropriate to deal with the matter and not to link constitutional changes to individual cases. It is the responsibility of Stortingen to ensure that constitutional debates are based on what the Constitutional proposals are actually about, and do not contribute to unsubstantiated claims about links that are not there. There are two proposals which are dealt with in the same setting. I'll first say a little bit about Document No. 12:24, which is concerned briefly with the introduction of a mandatory referendum relating to the waiver of sovereignty, but which at the same time concludes that the referendum will be advisory, and that the Storting will stand completely free in its ex-post assessment of the issue. The Progress Party has a different basic view of referendums. One can be based on what's the top thing, that's the election, which brings together the Storting. When a case is put out, not to the election, but to the same people who represent the election, i.e. the people, in order to obtain their advice, the Progress Party believes that it should be decisive for what the Storing and the Big City representatives should do in this house. So the starting point of a democracy is that one has to follow what the population actually thinks. The Progress Party believes that it should also be in this context. We are in favour of referendums being generally binding and not constitutionally affirming that the Storting will remain completely free at all times, regardless of the people's will. At the same time, one, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur, must remember that it may be necessary to use the Basic Law § 93 on the waiver of sovereignty in very limited areas, and then the Stortinge should be free to assess whether or not to obtain the will to live. That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be voting against the proposal in Document No. 12:24. So to Document No. 12:1. At least what this Constitutional proposal is all about is not the EU. Because what it's about is how large a minority can outrun the people's will. Under today's regulations, there are 43 large-scale representatives in this Chamber who can stop the will of a populace, and of course also the will of the other big-scale representatives. It is completely independent of whether or not a referendum is held. Under the Basic Law, Section 93 will still be a quarter – even if this proposal is adopted – if a referendum is not conducted. It is only in those cases where there is actually a referendum that the majority requirement is reduced. It is also important to note that in the position – and as well as the rapporteur of the case – the emphasis is placed on the people’s advice in such a referendum. There's something like that that's going to be leading the process of the Storting, that's that the people should have real power and influence over the decisions that are formally taken in this room. The Progress Party is generally for more power for the people and less power for the politicians. That is why the majority of the Progress Party believes that this proposal will lead to more democracy and ensure a stronger rule of the people. Normally, in all other contexts, an ordinary majority is required in this Chamber for decisions to be suspended. So today, there are 43 out of 169 who can stop implementing democratic decisions, and there are questions as to whether that's a good way to drive. The proposal does not represent a dramatic change, because it will still be a minority that can stop the implementation of the will, but it will increase the number of representatives from 43 to 57, with today's number of large-scale representatives. So it'll still be possible for one third of the Bigholding, 57 representatives, to stop the implementation of the people's will. That is why the proposal is a step towards more democracy. However, a waiver of sovereignty is so important – it is a major and important matter for a country – and one can independently implement the waiver of sovereignty independently of § 93 by using the constitutional amendment form, i.e. following the provisions of § 112. Then two-thirds of the population will still be able to carry out the will, but with a different approach. However, the proposal has one weakness in the legal text itself, because the very text of the constitution does not state that the outcome of the referendum should be a leading factor. However, this has been solved in a very thorough way in the wording and through the statements by the case-rapporteur — and probably through subsequent interventions today — which clearly show that the outcome of the referendum will lead to the treatment of the Storting. So finally, a few words about what the proposal is not about. This is not about Norwegian membership of the EU. E-mails have been sent in large quantities, with claims that by modifying the Basic Law in this way, Norway will enter the EU backwards, that it will lead to less democracy. It has been threatened that, if they do not follow the advice given in these e-mails, at least they will not be re-nominated. There are people who assume a great responsibility through these e-mails. But when there is also a process that initially has nothing to do with the matter, I think it is right to mention from this speaker that when the Stortinget is going to decide what the Constitution will look like in the future, it is important that we deal with it and not with any serious threats and references to and indications that something is not about. Because there is one thing that is absolutely certain: today's voting does not reflect my EU position, because it has nothing to do with the matter. There are many parties that have internal demolitions on this proposal, for many reasons. For my part, I am going to stick to that proposal, and it is not about Norwegian membership of the EU. The majority in the Progress Party may also do so, but the representatives are therefore free to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e292	First a little comment: It was strong by the representative Anundsen to say that a wanted-to-be e-mails in advance of the roll-call elections wanting to wipe out candidates' views on constitutional proposals. I thought that should be in line with the view of the Progress Party on clarifying its position towards the will of the people. But my question concerns the statement from the representative that the matter concerns the size of the minority required in Stortinget to ‘overrun the people’s will’, as I perceived the post of the representative Anundsen. In the past, the Progress Party has put forward proposals and voted in favour of binding referendums. The party of progress has been alone in this room. My question is: with the argument that the representative Anundsen is now making, why has not the Progress Party proposed to amend the Basic Law so that we get binding referendums, and thus to be made clear in this Chamber how many are supporting that position today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e301	Let me first say that I do not wish to request such e-mails. I think it's very nice to get e-mails, and I think dissent is one of the things that brings democracy forward. In any case, it was not the e-mails from No to the EU that asked for a position in this Constitutional proposal in advance of the elections, which I was now commenting on. However, I am quite sure that Mr Lundtigen has not received the e-mails we received in advance of and in connection with the Committee's proceedings relating to this proposal. That's the kind of argument in these proposals – which I don't want to have asked for, because anyone can make representations to us – I don't want to take into account, because it's the Constitutional Law's woe and well that's at the top of this room when the Constitutional Law is adopted, and not what I want to claim is a wrong view of what the proposal is all about. With regard to the question of why the Progress Party has not promoted constitutional proposals on binding referendums, it is a question to which it is quite difficult to answer. There are many proposals which the Progress Party is promoting from time to time and which are not promoted in other contexts. So we're going to get back to what's being promoted in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e308	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e311	I refer you to the rapporteur's statement, which covers all aspects of the matter and my view. Therefore, this article will be short. Today it is for treatment to amend the Constitution § 93, which reduces the majority requirement from three-quarters to two-thirds in ratifying an agreement that gives sovereignty to an international organisation. The assumption is that an advisory referendum was first held – and the result is that the people have agreed to an agreement to transfer sovereignty. Paragraph 93 of the Constitution provides an opening for the transfer of popular sovereignty in a defined area. Since the referendums in 1972 and 1994 were about Norwegian membership of the EU, the proposals are naturally linked to the EU. Several have claimed that this makes it easier to notify Norway into the EU. My answer is, no, it doesn't. The key to EU membership lies in a majority in a new referendum. The proposed amendment to Section 93 does not alter this reality. What this change will mean is that it strengthens the referendum as an element of the decision-making process. Votes have been used very few times in the context of national politics, as the rapporteur pointed out. It was used when deciding whether Norway would continue to be a kingdom or a republic, and at the break-up of Sweden in 1905. As far as our foreign policy is concerned, it has been used twice in relation to our applications for membership of the EU — in different versions. This has created custom. Every time you talk the question to the people, the big thing has followed the advice of the people. If the question of EU membership is brought up-to-date again, there is a cross-political consensus that such registration will not be relevant without first obtaining the advice of the people. It's getting harder for a small minority here in the hall to vote down a majority of the people. But it may also be that the Constitution § 93 can apply if Norway wishes to transfer authority to another international organisation. The proposal presupposes that the referendum and the roll-out decision relate to the same case complex, that the alternatives presented to the voters are essentially clear, and that the matter is decided by the Storting within a reasonable time after the outcome of the referendum is clear. The principle of the proposal presented is simple: a proposal to transfer powers to an international organisation should be anchored in the people by either an election or a referendum. The proposal equates with the democratic guarantee that lies in an election and in a referendum. One could in principle think of a smaller requirement for majority voting in the Biggest, because one introduces popular sovereignty so directly through a referendum. When that is not done, I will characterize the proposal as very cautious and moderate. With these comments, I would recommend to the Right-wing Representatives to vote in favour of the proposal for amendments to Section 93 and for Option 1. That means that the population of the Grand Duchy, which can block and vote down a majority in the Grand Duchy and in the people, changes from a quarter to a third, assuming that an advisory referendum has been held in advance. Without a referendum, the request for a majority of three-quarters is retained, as today. This means that Decision No I is accepted, and Decision No II in this case is not accepted, and that the representatives correspond to both decisions in the vote. As regards Document No: 12:24 in 2007-2008, I point out that the proposal would require a referendum on all matters to be dealt with under the Basic Law § 93, while clarifying that the outcome will be advisory to the Stortinget, which will take the final decision in the case. This is not necessary, as there is already a custom, for the people's council to be sought through an advisory referendum. If you were to hold a referendum in all cases, it could have consequences that are not fully understood today. Then it is better to consider this matter on a case-by-case basis without any foundation law. I would therefore recommend that the proposal should not be accepted. That means that I advise Right-wing representatives to answer yes also to Decision III.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e337	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good attitude and for a clean presentation – I think – by the case manager, who I still feel provides a basis for at least saying a few more words and putting forward a few more arguments – in addition to what has emerged. It is true that three-quarters is a strict plural requirement in the case of a waiver of sovereignty, as is currently the case in Grundlova § 93. But then there are also very important issues that are dealt with in the paragraph, which have not been used in time and time – as it has come up here – but very rarely, and which have often been current in situations of considerable conflict and heated debate in society. I would say that it is factual, good reason why the requirement for sovereignty waiver should be strict. It is still the case that no matter how you view it, the nation state is the basic unit of international policy. Community is constituted around nation states. Political governance tools are largely constituted around the nation state. And even though one in the SV's principal programme – and there are some points of view we share with most of the parties in the Stortinget – is willing to use to a greater extent different forms of supranational or intergovernmental cooperation agreements, organisations, contract agencies and institutions, it is also right that when a person does the kind of sovereignty waiver that requires treatment under Section 93, there should be a strict requirement in the Stortinget, in the form of three quarters of multiple numbers. I thought that the EEA case, which was mentioned here, was a good example, as well as EU case. It brings me to the next point. It's been said a little bit different things about this. The representative Anundsen says that this has absolutely nothing to do with the EU debate or EU case, if I understood him correctly. Of course it's okay to mean, but at least let me come up with a couple of arguments that I think are the reason why most people perceive it so that this has a lot to do with that debate. Firstly, the vote has been a major issue in the EU debate – and many times afterwards – directly linked to EU cases. Secondly, in those debates, there are our Europeans who have linked it to it and promoted it, earlier on with the argument that there was an unreasonable requirement attached to the EU debate. Thirdly, no matter how a person turns around and turns around, it will change the decision-making process that has been institutionalised around an EU reconciliation, in such a way that when the Storting will eventually decide on an EU membership, it will require two-thirds and not three-quarters of a majority if the Constitutional proposal is to be agreed. At least outside the world, I believe we need to see that this is not just about EU cases, but also about EU cases. She has our special and difficult in Norwegian policy – and very contentious. That is precisely why I believe it is a good principle that we should not seek to change the playereles that I would like to say that we have more or less been institutionalised through two EU votes. It is important, because it is not the way someone sometimes makes it that there has always been full agreement about all the gamblers in EU cases. No, it has not been, on the contrary, our wide-ranging debate on both votes. Not least I can remember it very well even around the last one, in which I actively participated. There has been a broad majority in favour of referenda, but we also have different views – from zero to two referenda – in the debate. As everyone will remember, we have different views on how to understand the outcome of the referendum. So there's always been a difference of opinion about how you should understand what kind of constitutional paragraph and what kind of plurals it would finally be reasonable to interpret the referenda after and apply here in the Storting. Just because of this whole debate, I want to say that established cutyme is very important. For this reason, I and SV would like to take into account, as point 1: an advisory referendum should be held if the issue of Norwegian EU membership were to come up again. Point 2: As stated in the SV's program, we will follow the advice of such a referendum, and I believe it will be general dissension that it is reasonable that we do here in the Stortinget. Paragraph 3: The requirement laid down in Section 93 should be maintained as today. So there must be three fourths of a plural here in the hall. That is why the SV and I will vote against the proposal in Document No. 12:1 during the voting here in the hall afterwards. So a little bit about the proposal in Document No. 12:24, which in reality involves two changes from today. One will be new, I say, and the other will be an institutionalization of practice. The one thing is that in that case we will say that there should be a referendum before matters as it is relevant to be dealt with under Section 93 of the Constitution, on the waiver of sovereignty. I think it's a factual, well-founded amendment. Today, the pasty is that we do it in EU cases, but it will have an impact on any other issues. Firstly, the questions – which I went through at the beginning of my speech – have given rise to a lot of debate and conflict in the Norwegian community. These may be major changes. It will be a way to ensure a broad, democratic treatment of having a referendum first, and that, after an advisory referendum, the Storting makes its final decision. Secondly, it is stated that the referendum should be advisory. I understand that there is a reasonable degree of agreement about, established through two EU votes, among other things, and that is the short-term, the way it would be natural for a referendum to take place in connection with the renunciation of sovereignty, i.e. first an advisory referendum, and then it is the Biggest that takes the final decision. That's why we're coming from SV to support this constitution proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e360	The President considers the proposal to be admissible. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e365	I am pleased to hear that the representative, Solhjell, unequivocally states that the party, SV, will respect the advice of the people if a referendum is held. However, it raises the obvious question: if the party SV is going to follow the people's advice, what is it that you fear by changing Section 93 from a requirement for a three-quarters majority to a two-thirds majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e371	As I said, there are two reasons for that. One is that, in fact, there are good reasons why, in the case of a waiver of sovereignty, there should be a particularly high plural requirement in the Stortinget, three-quarters, for which I argued. The second is that it is unfortunate to change the rules of the game that it has our extensive debate on, politicised, linked to the EU vote. So it's tempting to hint back again: because there's so much agreement that one should respect the outcome of an advisory referendum, why is it so important for a party like Right and for the EU fans in this room to make changes to Section 93 that will make it easier to become a member of the EU, because the plural requirement will eventually change? Why is it so important to change the game rules if one is completely safe with the current process? I think that's the real question here, because we have an institutionalized constitutional paragraph that gives clean rules of play.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e378	Someone might think it's a little special that I'm taking a line now – and that's it! When the SV parliamentary leader shows such respect for the nation state as this happened, I think it should call for a line. When the SV's parliamentary leader says that the nation state is the basic unit of political governance and shows a position towards the nation state and the people's regime that is so strong, I think it is a citizen of a further debate in this Chamber where the positive aspects of the nation state are being discussed more strongly in the interaction with international institutions, but with emphasis on the fact that the good aspects of the nation state that have now emerged in the context of the financial crisis are becoming more evident. I just want to give recognition to the SV parliamentary leader for his position on this crucially important issue for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e383	I thank you for that support piece, that's the first so far in my short career here at Stortinget. I am, in addition to being a politician – it was a political move – outstretched statesmen, and I believe that there will be a relatively few statesmen in Norway and internationally who disagree with the fact that the nation state is the basic unit of Norwegian policy. Most of the steering gears lie there, and there is a constituent community, much more so in our part of the world, which has a longer history with nation states, of course. But one will find few statesmen and, I believe, quite a few politicians – for this is a political position for me – who are disunity, so that we need more binding international cooperation, including transnational cooperation, where we give sovereignty in key areas such as migration, climate, economic governance, security policy, etc. The national State will be an important venue for issuing it and ensuring good processes. – Therefore, our position on the Constitutional Laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e393	Today, the Grand Duchy is considering a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Most Entrepreneured EU members of the Grand Duchy, inter alia. two former leaders of the European Movement. No matter how dark it looks for the yes side, they don't give up. For them, the European Union is almost a higher form of civilization. Had Thorbjørn Jagland continued to have access to this pulpit, he would certainly have maintained previous statements that only the European Union could solve unemployment. Yeah, candy can see the world. The real justification for the proposal is that they consider the Constitution to be a barrier to notifying Norway into the European Union. So they're going to change it. Norway does not have a system of binding referendums, as some countries do. Proposals to this effect have been promoted several times by the Progress Party and rejected by the majority in this Chamber. Both the Right and the Labour Party have progressed towards the introduction of binding referenda. In a system of binding referenda, representative democracy is disengaged and the vote is legally binding on the issue put forward. If the vote is advisory, the people give advice, but the final decision is taken by the elected representatives. I do not see the logic of the argument against binding referenda while at the same time advisory referenda should be binding. I look forward to a clarification from the proposers of how this is linked. After all, they've had many years to think about. In 1992 the Stortinget dealt with proposals by Carl I. Hagen on referendum. In the opinion, the Committee stated: ‘The Committee considers that situations may arise in such a way that it would be natural and appropriate for the voters to be given the opportunity to speak before decisions are taken in the Grand Duchy by means of a referendum. However, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, Gundersen and Hagen, considers that referendums in such situations should be purely advisory. The majority also emphasises that the use of such referenda should be limited to exceptional cases and particularly important issues.» Right-wing speakers, Jan Petersen, said in the debate: ‘But, of course, it is important that in certain situations that may arise, we have the opportunity to write referendums in the special cases where we feel this is necessary. referendums should, however, be advisory in such situations.’;» The main speakers of the Labour Party, Gunnar Berge, said among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘There are also two other weaknesses at the referendum institute. Areas of the country with a small population will not be able to provide the protection inherent in representative democracy, inter alia. by over-representation of these areas in relation to the population in the representative bodies. In referendums, there will be full proportionality. As a result, the country’s populace becomes the most pervasive of such a form of decision - making. We also consider it part of our democracy that the edges of our representative system are overrepresented in relation to the population. Further: ‘A second important consideration that has also been taken into account in the Committee’s position on the part of the majority is that in many cases referendums will not sufficiently safeguard the interests and rights of the minority. It is also an important aspect of our democratic system," said Gunnar Berge of the Workers' Party in Stortinget on 7 April 1992. Why are the proposers against binding referendums, but for referendums to be binding? I would think that many, both inside and outside this room, get advice in big and small matters, but what you get is advice. The decision must be taken by a sea, both as a public and as a private individual. A advice is and becomes a advice. The decision must be taken by a seafarer. There is no lack of respect to follow a advice. The Constitution makes strict demands on us to make important changes to our Constitution. The changes require broad disintegration in the Storting. Constitutional changes are proposed at the same time. There shall be a choice of a new magnification before they can be processed and adopted. This is a constitutional conservative system of which the Centre Party is a hot follower. It ensures that important changes to the Constitution can only be adopted after they have been submitted to the people in elections. A majority vote in the elections on parties or representatives supporting the proposal shall not be enforceable. There shall be a broad and convergent majority of constitutional changes. When the Constitutional Act § 93 was adopted in 1962, it was in view of having the right of registration in the EEC. The majority was aware that a registration in such an organisation was, in fact, a constitutional change. Suffering if the word of the Basic Law was not changed, the government it imposes would be transformed. It was therefore clear, all in 1962, that at least two thirds of the majority were required for registration. However, because the majority would miss the long period of thought required by a constitutional amendment under Section 112, it was found that an even more robust majority under Section 93 should be required. The biggest debate on the Constitutional Act § 93 was held on March 6, 7 and 8 – three days – in 1962. The size did not take lightly on such an important question at the time. The Christian People's Party, Kjell Bondevik, felt that the three-quarters majority was not enough for a decision as large as registration into the EEC, and proposed that the five-sixth majority be called for. This proposal received 34 votes. Paragraph 93 of the Constitution was finally adopted against 35 votes. Paragraph 93 of the Constitution was used for the first time in the context of the EEA Agreement in 1992, as described precisely by the case-rapporteur. Paragraph 93 of the Constitution opens the way for the Storting without going into the path of constitutional change with intermediate elections to a majorisation, to give sovereignty in a demarcated area. In order to do that, a higher majority is required, three-quarters. This makes it difficult to use short-lived mood waves and various suctions that may arise, to make important changes quickly in relation to our seaworthiness. There is no state-law logic or general principleal thinking on the basis of which a narrow majority in an advisory referendum should override this important principle of constitutional law. The minority in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre, emphasises the particular seriousness of transferring authority from the Stortinge to international bodies, as this implies a possible conflict with the Constitution's first sentence of Section 1: «The Kingdom of Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and inalienable kingdom.» There must therefore be particularly strict conditions for the waiver of sovereignty. Thus, the current section 93 on the three-quarters majority of the Stortinget was introduced in 1962, with the background of a possible Norwegian membership of the Common Market, in short the EEC. Everyone agrees that membership of this common market was a bit more modest with regard to the waiver of sovereignty for the Norwegian big business. Today, the European Union is increasingly a federal state, without democratic legitimacy in the people of each Member State. Paragraph 93 specifies that the provision can only be applied in a limited area. The Central Party has a firm position that incorporating Norway into the European Union will result in a systematic and decisive renunciation of sovereignty in all key areas and that therefore Union membership cannot be dealt with under Section 93. Union membership will therefore require a number of constitutional changes, for example in Section 75, all of which must be dealt with under Section 112 of the Constitution. This constitutional understanding is in line with what about Frede Castberg and Johs. Andenæs spoke to the Stortinget as early as 1961-1962. They concluded that § 93 could be used against the EEC as the EEC functioned. But Andenæs added that if the EEC evolved in a federal direction, which is the basic view of the Norwegian European movement, § 112 had to be used to change about ten paragraphs of the Constitution. Similarly, in 1972 Carsten Smith found that only § 112 was relevant. As can be seen from this setting, the Central Party supports the constitutional proposal of the former central party depositors Rune J. Krylaaen, Anna Ceselie Brustad Moe and Kari Mette Prestrud, that it is mandatory to hold a referendum on matters to be dealt with under the Constitution § 93, while clarifying that the outcome will be advisory to Stortinget. The background for this is to create clear decision-making procedures that involve and engage in word-changing and opinion-building among people in matters that are essential to the real content of what the Storting has power over. The Central Party – as a constitutional conservative party with strong faith in the nation-state tradition in order to ensure a living democracy with security and security for its inhabitants without compromising other nations or peoples – is therefore, summarised, a strong adherent to the constitutional referendum on the rule of law in connection with the waiver of sovereignty in restricted areas, Section 93 of the Basic Law, while the Grand Duchy, by a majority of three-quarters, decides on such waivers of sovereignty. On this basis, I recommend that the Group of the Centres vote in favour of the proposals of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e459	At least we can see that the representative Lundtigen and I disagree on what this proposal is all about. I still believe that it is not about the EU. This line is at least not about the EU, but more about referendum. I record that Lundtägen had to go back 20 years in time to find interesting arguments that he now uses in 2012, from different parties, in the arguments related to referendum. That's interesting. But completely independent of the case – this may be a matter of renunciation of sovereignty, for example. in the context of an international climate agreement with a waiver of sovereignty in itself, a Nordic defence cooperation, or whatever – what is the size of the majority of the people in their council before the representative Lundtigen lets it be decisive for his position on the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e468	It was a matter that was discussed in depth in the context of the last EU membership debate — more on a principle basis. My opinion and that of the Center Party was, as it is now, that there was something we would decide on based on the content of the matter, and what was the result of the referendum when it was listed. So saying in advance what it's like is not possible. It will be a maritime assessment on a case-by-case basis, and the Central Party, as I said, is based on advisory referendums, at the same time as the Stortinget, with the people's corps here, who are to take the final decision on the basis of their best judgement – a council is a council!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e473	However, in the context of the EU question, the Central Party was not clear on how large the population population should be – in front of the referendum. So that means that the Central Party, after the referendum, has been held, has to decide whether the population is large enough or not. What's the point of asking for the people's advice, though, when you're not interested in clarifying in advance whether you want to follow it, or how much is going to happen before you follow it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e480	Obviously, a referendum result is important. At the same time, it was clarified at the time, and I have the same position today, that 50,1 – which was the honorary word at the time – was not enough to say yes to such a waiver of sovereignty. referendums have a lot of positive in them. There's not least questions of formation, there's issues of engagement, there's issues of making decisions, discussions. It's one of the greatest things we have in our democracy, that we can get the discussion out into the thousands of homes and thus get a vitality that is a strength in that matter, and in many things in the future. It's too little of such commitment!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e486	It may be surprising to someone that I am asking for a line to the representative Lundtigen. But I would like to say that his post in my opinion was a very instructive and interesting review of this case that clearly shows how closely the question of the rules around Grundlova § 93 and the waiver of sovereignty has been linked to the issue of Norwegian EU membership. There is a central point to this matter. I also heard just two very enthusiastic replies from the representative, Anundsen, who began by saying that this issue should not at least be about EU affairs. But then it was just about how one could understand the results of the referendum from EU cases. I wonder if the representative Lundteggen agrees with me that the representative Anundsen revealed that his real motive is related to EU affairs, and nothing else?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e493	I have become acquainted with the representative Anundsen through the control committee and am aware that he presents his position to the best of my knowledge, according to the demanding job representative Anundsen has in such matters of sovereignty – and linked to the EU. However, it is clear from all the debates on this issue that § 93 is a question of Norway's relations with the European Union. This is also stated by the representative of Anundsen – that is what is essential in the matter, regardless of how much the representative says this is not an EU matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e498	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e501	First of all, thank you to the rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter. This is an important matter. I agree with those who have stated that this is a matter that shows the important connection between the Great Britain and the people. This debate is about two different constitutional proposals, one on referendums and one on changing the size of the majority to be adopted in favour of bodies involving Norwegian sovereignty. In other words, the latter concerns, for example: on lowering the threshold for notifying Norway into the European Union — to refer to one example where Section 93 will apply. The Christian People's Party will vote against both proposals. Transferring power from Norwegian elected bodies, from Stortinget, to international bodies is not and should not be easy. There must therefore be a high threshold to give up Norwegian sovereignty. The current provision was adopted as far back as 1962. A change in the majority requirement from 75 to 66.67 pst. therefore involves changing the rules on which the EU case was based in 1972 and 1994. In our view, the same rules of procedure should continue to apply if EU membership is to come back on the agenda – first referendum, then deliberations and a decision, if any, taken by a three-quarters majority. It is a separate procedure for dealing with constitutional proposals. The proposals are not dealt with in an urgent manner. They are promoted in one ageing period and treated in the next. This means that voters in elections have the opportunity to influence the composition of the Stortinget also in relation to whether the candidates/parties will support or not the electorate's constitutional proposals. Proposals for a waiver of sovereignty which are dealt with under Section 93 do not require a similar waiting time as a draft constitution and may not be in excess of a major choice. The requirement for a majority of three-quarters instead of two-thirds compensates for this. A matter of waiver of sovereignty can both appear and be adopted in the same period of magnitude. The present proposal implies that it will in reality be easier to adopt a waiver of sovereignty under Section 93 than to amend the Constitution. The proposal has taken the view that an advisory referendum should be held in advance in order to apply the provision of a two-thirds majority. The Christian People's Party still believes that this does not adequately compensate for the democratic guarantee that lies in an intermediate decision-making process. Nor does the Christian People's Party support the proposal that it be mandatory to hold a referendum on all matters to be dealt with under Section 93 of the Constitution. That doesn't mean we won't support having a referendum on such things, but we don't want to automatically do this. There might be things where it won't be natural. There may be cases where a waiver of sovereignty is in very limited areas and where therefore a referendum would be out of date and could change the use of the referendum institute. All in all, the Christian People's Party believes that we do not fully understand all the consequences of such a constitutional rule. I recommend that my Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats vote against both of these proposals, both the proposal in Document No. 12:1 for 2007-2008 and the proposal in Document No. 12:24 for 2007-2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e522	Having minority rights in the constitution of a parliament is an important part of a democracy, seafaring if it is always a challenge to find the balance points that make democracy effective. I believe that these balance points are well taken care of both in the form of the Norwegian Parliament and in the Basic Law, while for example we are. sees that the American way of working now leads to paralysis at an important time in history, where the control mechanisms become so strong that the power of action is weakened. The point of a democracy is not always that the majority should have power, but that the minority actually has something to say, as a fundamental view of democracy. Then to the terms ‘national State’ and ‘superiority’. I'm a liberal. That means that my attitude towards the ‘national state’ is, as for SV, a thought of a foundation in a construction, the sea of the representation of the nation-states is probably so historically random that claiming that it is almost a religious approach to the nation-state as a structure, I do not get as liberals to. But I still believe that giving sovereignty on behalf of a nation-state is an important and serious act that should be taken seriously and that good practices should be in place for how to happen. So the threshold for a waiver of sovereignty, I think, should be great. That is why I believe it is also right to have minority rights in the Constitution as an important valve as a threshold for a waiver of sovereignty. For procedures in this room for renouncing sovereignty, you should not be taken lightly. It has to be proper, and you have to have good routines for it. So I believe that the two referendums that have been, and the procedures associated with them, have shown that our constitution is actually in that test. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that we should change the rules in any field in this area, when we have seen that it works well. That is why we in the Left are going to vote against all the proposals that have been put forward here. We see no need to change the rules of the game along the way. We do not see that there is any weakness in today's system that should be corrected; that system has worked very well. We believe that it is right that a waiver of sovereignty is a serious matter and that a minority right should therefore be held. So it's up to that minority if they want to use it the way they can. But it is also about people's confidence. We in the Left are likely to follow at any time what the people have asked us to do, but that does not mean that we will deprive all of their right to not actually follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e531	I'm going to do something for why I've submitted a special comment and is not part of either the majority or the minority when it comes to the founding of the committee. The Constitution was written for him to stand, and he did. That being said, it is not that what has to be there should just be there because it always has to be like that. It is not an argument. One should not be a constitutional conservative just to be radical – or vice versa. I believe that, when the Constitution is to be amended, there should be broad consensus in the Storting and in the public debate on what the change will entail, and why the Constitution should be amended. In this case, the minority and the majority disagree on the impact of the change, the background for why the change is needed or not needed, and the outcome of the change. One thing, however, is that both the majority and the minority have some to say in their written reasons, and that is that the proposal is related to the issue of EU membership. It is obvious that this is the only case we can specifically refer to where the proposal will have real political relevance in the current political landscape. But – The Constitution is bigger, and he has to stand longer than that, especially when it comes to giving up sovereignty. It is one of the most drastic decisions a national Parliament can take on behalf of those it represents, and then I think it should be reflected in the plural requirement. It is a greater decision to give up sovereignty than to change the Constitution, in particular a constitution which states in its first paragraph that the kingdom is free, independent, indivisible and independent. Thus, one should continue to have stricter requirements for multiples. With the founding fathers, I discourage Stortinget from supporting the proposal and thus retain Section 93 of the Constitution just as he is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e544	I'm very much in favour of big and important things being presented to the people in a referendum. Disposal of significant sovereignty is, of course, such a matter. I had primarily wanted such referenda to be binding. Now there's no consensus on such a scheme, but there's a broad consensus on advisory referendums, and that's good. I think it must be obvious that if you ask for the people's advice, it should be followed by the Storting. In my personal opinion, something else would be undemocratic. I find it difficult to understand those who come to other conclusions, but of course I hear from the debate that you choose to come to other conclusions. In any case, I would respect the people's judgment, no matter what I thought, had an advisory referendum. I stress that EU membership is not on my or the agenda of the Progress Party as of today and that the party has committed itself to this with the referendum. But this is not an EU matter. It might as well be about other types of agreements of a certain extent. What this matter is really about, in my view, is how large the minority should be to prevent the will of the people from reaching. A quarter of the Biggest can prevent the will of the people today. The publisher in the setting means that something more is needed to prevent this will. In the speech by the Committee president, Anundsen, and in the exchange of views with the representative Lundteigen afterwards, referred to e-mails that have been received by some wholesalers in connection with the handling of this matter, including: with claims that this was a sneaking-up of Norway in the EU and with threats to what to do related to denominations. I can confirm that I have received a similar e-mail myself, and that they can appear to be unpleasant and at least very little informed, to say so. Otherwise, this exchange of lines between representatives from Lundtägen and Anundsen raised No to the EU's questions to the candidate countries before elections. I have even answered such questions. Although I think they're a bit trendy, of course an organisation has the right to ask the questions you want to ask candidates for big shots, and I applaud that. However, I am more sceptical about threatening e-mails in connection with the wholesale handling of this matter. My recommendation to the representatives of the Progress Party is the same as the representative, Mr Anundsen, agreed to vote in favour of the points that are in the committee's recommendation. But we make it clear that the representatives of the Progress Party are free.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e563	The next speaker was to be Michael Tetzschner. I can't see that the representative Tetzschner is in the room. So the next speaker is going to be Marianne Aasen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e566	Then you move forward in line, I see. With this article, I want to explain why, together with three other representatives, I have made proposals to amend Section 93. It is as it has been said: this proposal is not about EU membership as such, but how the Storting should deal with referendums. The rapporteur, Mr Kolberg, and the representatives, Mr Anundsen and Mr Foss, have given good reasons for this. However, I would like some comments. Norway is a representative democracy, that is, we choose elected elected representatives of the Grand Duchy, which represents the opinions of the voters. In most of the cases we vote on, it's done by a scarce majority. But the Constitution ensures that we who sit on the Storting cannot give sovereignty to a supranational institution or others without a majority of at least three-quarters. That's good. I have noticed that many representatives – both representatives who want to vote in favour and representatives who want to vote against the vote – have given good reasons for this. Norway rarely asks people for advice through referendums. It has happened six times: twice on the Union resolution and form of government, that is, for and against kingdom, twice on the ban on alcohol or not and twice on the EU question. We don't have to follow these advices, but I – and the Workers' Party – believe it's a matter of course that everyone in the Grand Duchy follows the people's advice when we ask for it. Votes are very rarely used, and I think that is right. The representative of Lundteigen showed, among others: to Gunnar Berge's reason for that in 1992, and some of the considerations I put myself behind. There are obviously great weaknesses in referendums. Switzerland is a country that uses this a lot, and there we see some of it – among other things. received the female voting rights very late. I think it is right to use referendums in some situations, which have gradually become customary in Norway, and this concerns Norwegian EU membership. So I support this practice, but then there is no doubt that the referendum will be followed – regardless of the outcome. Some parties have openly stated that they do not intend to vote as a majority of the people would like and impose conditions on them if the majority's views go against them. If the majority coincides with their views, they'll follow it. In 1994, there were more than a quarter of the representatives who had either decided to vote no anyway, or who would not say what they would do if the majority had said yes. I think we should all be happy that this was not put to the test in 1994. It is hardly possible to vote more on the ban on alcohol in Norway, either in this Chamber or through referendums, but it is theoretically possible – and also unmistakable – that the monarchy/republic will once in the future become a political theme. In that case, I mean, also there, that referendum is being updated, precisely because the royal house was installed by referendum. And then, in that case too, I believe that the Storting should follow the populace, regardless of whether each of the representatives is a follower or an opponent of the kingdom. I had not proposed this change if all parties had unreservedly said that they would follow the outcome in any referendum. Then this proposal had been superfluous. But unfortunately, it's not like that. It was claimed in the debate – from those voting against the vote – that this is about the EU case. That is what the EU's opponents themselves are doing. The proposal would have been superfluous about the representatives of the Stortinge who support the referendum in a possible membership debate, and they would have thought that even if they did not agree, the outcome would be followed. As far as the monarchy debate is concerned, the problem is as follows: there is a two-thirds majority. So in the case of the European Union, it's a three-quarters majority. We are therefore at the point of the representative of Anders Anundsen. He is quite right in his point formulation, that this is about how large a minority can stop the people's will. So that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e592	The representative Lundtegegen made an excellent contribution on behalf of the Center Party, and explained in full why we have the position we have. I would like to make some additional comments. If we look at the picture behind us: what they did at Eidsvoll was written in time after the French revolution, with freedom, equality and brotherhood, and our constitution is the oldest foundation law in continuous operation in Europe. We who sit here have a proud legacy to manage. We do not only represent ourselves now in our time; it is a continuous legacy from 1814 until today – with the oldest constitution, the oldest constitution, in Europe. The most dramatic thing to do is to give sovereignty, and what we've been asked to decide now is to make it easier to give sovereignty. The majority want it to be simpler and the minority protection to be weaker. For the Central Party, it is absolutely essential that the type of major, dramatic decisions, which cannot be changed by the next majority, should have the widest and safest majority possible, because it must last for a long time. We're part of a series, and we're managing an inheritance. That's why we're voting against this, and fortunately, it's still so that the minority protection in this room secures us in this round. The democratic community we find in the nation state is completely unique. Many have argued, particularly on the yes side, that when EU bodies gain more power, there will be a greater popular uprising around EU bodies. One of the biggest signs of whether or not there is a break-up around an organ is the participation in elections. If we look at the bodies of the European Union, participation in elections has decreased, even though power has increased – contrary to what the yes movement in Norway has said. You have to give more power, for example. The European Parliament, as has been said, will also expect more people to choose to use the ballot in those elections. I believe that the main reason for this is precisely the lack of the democratic community that exists in the nation state, the lack of a common language, a common culture, which enables us to understand and discuss with each other on equivalent terms. We in the Centre Party believe that the EEA Agreement was a compromise between the elites in Norway. They forgot to listen to the people. The EU design is a structure between the elites in Europe. You've forgotten to listen to the people. The more power is transferred to the EU institutions, the less political participation there is in the European elections, but also in the national elections. On the European continent, it is now a fundamental democratic crisis, it is shifting more and more power to technocrats, and that is not what we in the Central Party want to contribute to. We want to have the strongest possible constitutional protection to protect the legacy of which we are so proud, the legacy that goes from 1814 to today. We represent the Biggest that administers Europe's oldest constitution, and that is an inheritance we want to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e605	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e609	I had not intended to be tempted to take a line, but when the post by the parliamentary leader of the Central Party bears the mark of so little principles and so much of a mix of two relationships, I feel that there is a need for clarification. The fundamental question in this matter is how large a minority will have the opportunity to stop democracy and a democratic majority. In the light of the speech by Mr Vedum, on the importance of upholding democratic principles in the European Union – which I fully agree with – it is rather strange that the representative, Mr Vedum, would doubt a system that is anything but representative of a democracy in this matter. Can the representative explain why it is such that in any matter concerning the surrender of sovereignty, 43 grubbing-up representatives should have the power to override the plurality?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e616	Minority protection is a fundamental value in our democracy, and it is a fundamental value also in European democracies and in the tradition we stand in. There may be differing views on the degree of minority protection, but I have never experienced – even in the Progress Party – opponents of minority protection in the Constitution. The Progress Party also wants minority protection on key issues. We believe – in the matter of sovereignty renunciation – that there is such a dramatic decision that minority protection should be greater than in other decisions. It's a principle line. Minority protection is a basic premise that I feel that all parties support, but then it is in one particular – with regard to sovereignty renunciation – that minority protection should be even stronger, so we want a majority of three-quarters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e623	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e626	I have asked for the floor in this case because it has engaged me both now and the two times earlier as it has been up and down. I'm not going to do inaccuracies in any way in this context. When this provision of the Constitution was adopted in 1962, I have no doubt that it was to strengthen our requirements for sovereignty and clearly confirm this in the Constitution. Today’s proposal is to weaken this provision – there can be no doubt about it. So simple is my assessment. When the matter was up in Stortingen in 2008, I strongly opposed this proposal, because I cannot see any need for this change, on the contrary. Why should we weaken the Constitution in this important area? In 2008, the proposal was rejected by the Stortinget with a solid margin. The proposal has naturally been linked to the EU issue by both EU opponents and EU followers. Very many people from all over the country contacted me to say that they supported my view in 2008. Among these, there were also pronounced EU followers who were against such a weakening of the Basic Law § 93. The question of sovereignty is taking people stronger than we think. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has set its representatives free in this important matter, and I hope that all other parties in the Stortinget have done the same. I hope that the rapporteurs, who are still on the Stortinget, will not come forward with the proposal again if it falls today. It is a serious matter to give sovereignty. Therefore, the threshold for making this grip must be very high, and I hope that Section 93 of the Basic Law will be as it is. I have no doubt that my view of this is in line with the view of a large majority of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e635	I belong to those who are very restrictive when it comes to amending the Constitution. I believe that the Constitution is part of the very foundation of Norwegian democracy, and that it needs very big things and very important reasons for it to change. Sometimes it can happen. I mean, for example. that Jews should have access to the kingdom and that it was absolutely necessary to rectify what was adopted in 1814. Then maybe you can say that the paragraph and the provision in the Constitution we're discussing today has nothing to do with 1814, because that provision is just – and I say ‘only’, for fifty years in the constitutional context is short – fifty years old. I have heard it claimed that the proposal that has been made in the previous period, which we are now considering, has nothing to do with the European Union. Yes, I hear that and believe so much about it too, but I believe that both the proposers and the majority of the control committee are wise to imagine that it can be seen as having something to do with the European Union. At least it wouldn't have been stupid for the debate if one saw clearly that it could be linked to the European Union. To me, it's obvious. The rapporteur, Mr Kolberg, said in his excellent opening speech today that the provision came in 1962, and the reason for that was precisely the relationship with the EC at that time. I also belong to those who believe that the population should be followed if we get a new referendum on EU membership. It is a very special matter, it has created custom that the question should be put out if it should become a third time. I think it's quite obvious that the Storting should follow what the majority in such a referendum says. Here I totally disagree with Per Olaf Lundtägen and what he said earlier today. It's been a nice debate, a bit of a solemn debate. There has been talk about Eidsvoll and 1814, about the Constitution, about the populace, but I would also like to highlight an important principle in addition, a democratic principle – or maybe I could even say a state-scientific principle – namely the principle of one man one vote. A majority is a majority, and therefore I believe that if we get back into that situation, that there will be a discussion about Norwegian EU membership, and we will put the question to a referendum, which I think it is quite obvious that we have to do, the Storting must follow the majority in the referendum. I agree that the problem arises if the Storting decides anything other than what the populace has expressed in an advisory referendum. But in principle it could also happen if the proposal to change from three-quarters to two-thirds is adopted. In principle, we are in the same position – it is possible for a minority in the Storting to block the majority in a referendum. In fact, it is less likely, but if one here was to be principled, one should have made a proposal for a binding referendum on such matters. This can be interpreted as having something to do with the EU debate in Norway, which we have to admit has been difficult, which has been tough, and which has been a very special debate in Norway for decades after decades. I believe that we are wise not to change the rules of the game along the way. At least from some team, it can be perceived as changing the rules of the game along the way, and only that I think is a good reason not to change the Constitution. Combined with my principle view that we should be extremely careful about changing the Constitution, I have ended up voting against the proposals for constitutional changes, all three proposals that have been raised, and I fully share the considerations given by this pulp of the Workers' Party minority in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, Jette F. Christensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e650	Paragraph 93 of the Constitution makes it possible to decide on the transfer of sovereignty to international organisations without waiting for the next election, and I believe that this is a jumping point. As you know, this paragraph was introduced for the purpose of facilitating Norway’s entry into the EU. Since 1962 we have had repeated referendums and repeated proposals for amendments to the Constitution § 93. The requirement for a majority of three-quarters was set in order to compensate for the loss of the democratic guarantee that is common in constitutional proposals, by promoting changes for a period of time and voting on the next. Amendments to § 112, as representatives from, inter alia, The Party of Progress has mentioned as an alternative, which means that the proposal must be above a choice. That's an insurance that we're asking for. This assurance of such a great change as relinquishing sovereignty, the proposers will now remove by referring to that when we have had a referendum, the people are heard and then the Storting just needs to say amen. referendums have no basis in the Constitution. Nor will the proposers vote for such an authorisation by joining in the proposal to hold mandatory referendums on matters related to Section 93. They shall continue to be advisory and shall be based on custom. I still do not understand why the proposers want to remove the heavy responsibility that we have set to assume as a magnificence representative in a matter as important as a renunciation of sovereignty. Are there no assessments to be based – not turnout or anything else? Why is it necessary to jump over the democratic guarantee we now have? Why change § 93 if it is not to make it easier to register in the EU? I think all other explanations are incomprehensible. Referendums shall seek advice from the people. The waiver of sovereignty shall not be carried out in a single magnification period other than by a majority of three-quarters. The basic principles of the Constitution are based on the principle of popular sovereignty, which means that the authority is to be removed from the people and that the exercise is to be carried out through a popular assembly elected to a parliament, that is to say the Grand Duchy. That's our lot. Those who in their time laid the Constitution, too, saw that the Constitution should remain unchanged as far as possible, but it is only natural that changes also occur in this law in the course of the development of society. But this is not a natural change, rather unnatural, I would say, when one considers the resistance of the people, because this matter is about registration in the European Union. Claiming something else is an attempt to make this Constitutional proposal less important. Some of the lines I have heard here today are just proof that this is the EU issue. In November, opposition to EU membership showed a record rise, for no-page. All 78.3 p.m. was against membership, according to the NRK. The EU has become a broader and deeper Union than the economic cooperation it initially was. The EU has become a Union which, in addition to dealing with trade and the economy, includes, inter alia: common currency and monetary policy, justice, foreign and security policy and much more. In addition, the EU has expanded from 12 to 27 countries. Norway has adapted to the EU along the way and, in many contexts, it is completely unproblematic to adapt. But especially in the later years, we have experienced great debate and heated discussions relating to different directives that intervene in our working life and our everyday lives in a way that many feel is not appropriate. I can mention the Data Storage Directive, the Postal Directive, the Services Directive and now the Temporary Agency Directive. One would like to repeat and repeat that this is not an EU issue, but it does. The principle of popular sovereignty is, as I have said, one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution. Paragraph 1 of the Basic Law states: «The Kingdom of Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and inalienable kingdom. Its form of government is restricted and hereditary monarchy.» That's the way it should stay. A change to the Basic Law § 93 to make it easier to renounce sovereignty to an all-encompassing European Union during a single enlargement period will be contrary to the Basic Law §§ 1 and 112 and is not a good idea for people in our country. It does not help to try to camouflage the proposal that this is not about making it easier to notify us into the EU. Nor do the proposers want to vote for mandatory referendums in Section 93 cases, I also think I make it clear that a person wants to jump over the importance of this paragraph. The rules on the rules on the waiver of sovereignty, or the entry into the EU, should not be changed. I therefore hope that the majority in the Chamber will vote against the majority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e683	There is no EU membership in this case. It is a constitutional practice. It is about how democracy is to be practised in Norway. Of course, one of the issues involved in this context has been the question of membership – whether Norway should become a member of the EU or whether we should continue not to be. What this debate has sometimes focused on is the minority's rights. The question of minority rights is a question that we in the Progress Party are very concerned about, but giving the minority a constitutional opportunity to overrun a majority is, in my view, a funny way of practicing democracy. Those who claim that there is constitutional conservatism that should be used to address the issue we are discussing today have a point, but I strongly doubt that the gentlemen of Eidsvoll in 1814 had taken paragraphs in the Constitution because 30 p.m. by the Eidsvollsgemeinschaft wished so, while 70 pst. was against it. Now I've decided to vote for the constitutional changes. That was probably a question I took a position on already in 1994. I noticed in 1994 that the Central Party, which at the time was the second largest party in the Stortinget and had 32 representatives – it was not the second largest in the 1993 elections, but our hopeless electoral system still made the Center Party the second largest party in the Stortinget – made it very clear before the referendum on membership that regardless of the outcome of the referendum, the Senter Party would vote against Norwegian membership of the European Union. Whatever the result! Then you can ask, what's the point of a referendum? I believe that a referendum must be decisive as to whether Norway will become a member of the EU or whether Norway will continue not to be. The whole debate was about 1972 and 1994, whether there would be a majority of the people for membership or whether there would be a majority of the people against membership. So the Storting should have practiced a system of 30 pst. should be able to block a majority in a referendum and a majority in the Grand Duchy. As I said, I intend to vote in favour of the constitutional changes. It is to bring Norwegian constitution into line with democratic principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e696	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e699	I'll take one part of the line. I expect Lundtegen will take the other one, and we'll see if we're in agreement. I've been on a committee tour with the Myhre representative in the United States, and I've seen the enthusiasm of the Advance Party representative for the U.S. electoral system and for the U.S. country at all. Then I am interested in hearing Myhre's comment that the district of Washington has no representation at all in Congress, because it is believed that they are represented by being the headquarters of the administration. So there's the principle that the capital has no representation in Congress. It is interesting to note that the representative Myhre began his speech by saying that this is not about the EU. Then the representative used his entire speech to talk about the EU and about the fact that the representative made his own decision in 1993. How, then, does the representative explain that his statement and this matter are not about the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e708	I decided in 1993–94 to have the position that the Norwegian Constitution was wrong. The paragraphs introduced in the 1960s meant a minority of 30 pst. be able to exceed a majority of 70 pst. It is, in my opinion, a hopeless way of practicing democracy. When I also hear Battle Violence Vedum talk about Washington DC's representation, or lack of such – I've never understood why it should be this way – I assume that this means that the Central Party will now introduce a system in which Oslo's population will not be given the right to vote in the event of a coup d'état. I want him – not good luck, but you world, this is going to be exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e715	I was inspired to take a line in the 1990s. It was a rich time. It was a time when we really got a democratic debate and a democratic commitment that we probably haven't had in many decades in Norway, where one of the points was popular government or union. Now that I have a special comment, it's because the representative Myhre said that before the 1994 referendum, the Central Party said that regardless of the outcome of it, their representatives on the Stortinget would vote against EU membership. That's not right. The correct thing was that we didn't commit ourselves to voting yes if it was 50.1 pst. That's what was the big discussion – 50.1 pst. – whether it was sufficient for everything, and how large it should be, where the majority came from, how many voted and all. The centre party claims that referendums should be advisory, and the presentation of the representative Myhre is therefore incorrect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e725	This was challenged on a number of occasions in 1993 and 1994, prior to the EU vote. So it's not that hard to predict what the situation would be like after the referendum, because it's a simple question like a yes or no to membership. So there were no other themes on which the referendum held in 1994 was based. Then it should have been possible for the Center Party to clarify whether 60 pst would suffice. majority of membership in order for the Central Party to participate in the implementation of the will, or whether 70 pst, 80 pst, 90 pst would be necessary. or 99 pst. But the centre party consistently refused to answer that question, and that is why I have my words left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e730	The representative Myhre referred to Eidsvoll, but I think they were above the average occupied by what goes on in sovereignty disclaimer and similar problem settings, and it is also mentioned. Myhre says that he himself and the Advance Party are occupied with minority protection, but that it had never had to be read in such a way that a minority should be able to block the majority in this room's will. The question is quite simple: what is Myhre and the Advance Party's argument to continue to be more than two thirds of the Constitutional amendment? Is it the whole way that the Progress Party wants a graduation of that kind in the Constitution also for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e739	This is not a question of EU membership. That is why the Progress Party has taken this position in dealing with these Constitutional proposals. The basic thing must be that a referendum must be crucial to the outcome of the handling of a case. It can't be like that in a referendum where 30 pst. one and 70 pst. the second is that the 30 psts should be decisive. That's what we're concerned about. For our part, letting the populace get its way through has been crucial, and the proposals that are being dealt with today must be a step in the right direction to get the will of the populace through also on constitutional issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e746	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e749	Jagland said in March 1994: “The side that tries with tricks and slogans, will lose” – and then he lost. So for the issues we are dealing with today, the proposers say – among others. two former leaders of the European Movement, Svein Roald Hansen and Inge Wohnning – that it has nothing to do with the EU. Those who are in the pulpit and are in favour of it say that it has to do with some completely different principal things. The EU has nothing to do with it – the page that is trying, etc. I think it's a way to argue that is not worthy of the National Assembly. Everyone here knows that it is the European Union and that it is the European Union. It has to be that simple. Then I'll start at a slightly different point than attacking the Center Party because they're undemocratic when it comes to 50.1 pst, and how to interpret the results. So now we've had two referendums on the European Union, the people have said no, and now we're going to come and change the player's mind to take a new turn – a third round of referendums, if you want membership. That's what we have to talk about, because that's what's real. There's nothing else. So it's a way to make it easier to report Norway to the EU, because you're looking for a new referendum. In a situation where there is a majority of the parties, including the Right, against EU membership, one of them, therefore, attracted this debate. I must agree with the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who says to Day and Time that it is bad timing, not least when you look at what the Norwegian people are saying about the European Union for the time being. Why does he say that? Yes, because one sees that the EU has failed, one sees that the EU is in crisis, one sees that the EU has major problems with unemployment. In Spain it's 50 pst. youth unemployment. One thought there would be much more work in Norway if we joined the EU. The situation in the EU is therefore the opposite: mass unemployment and major problems, not least for young people entering the labour market. There are some things that aren't related here. In addition, I think from my point of view when a speaker talks about solidarity with Europe, that yes, of course we should be solidarity with Europe too, but we should also be solidarity globally for a fair value. That is what we are talking about when we talk about our relationship with the European Union. With these clarifications, I thought we should say what this really is: it's an arrangement for a new referendum to bring us into the EU. That is what the proposers intend to do, and that is why the two former leaders of the European movement are promoting this proposal. Therefore, I would like to repeat Jagland’s statement: ‘The side that tries with tricks and slogans will lose.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e762	I can immediately agree with the last statement from the representative Langeland – the best statement in all of his posts, I would say. It has been a pleasure for me as a little constitutional conservative to hear some of the basic tone in this room – there are many constitutional conservatives. It is only a question of distributing this conservatism properly, so that it does not prevent decisions on international cooperation, which oblige us, and which oblige the countries involved. I think, however, that although we recognise a certain burden of proof that changes are also improvements when we change the Constitution, one may have gone a little far in a purely static defence of the Constitution. Among other things, the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, was concerned that there is an uninterrupted line from the gentlemen on the picture behind the president until today. That's just not right. Two thirds of the Constitution is quite new, and it is also a language that our founding fathers would not feel at home. 80 years after they concluded their negotiations. Perhaps even more important, the Constitution may have been too rigid in its turn to change, so that major constitutional changes have been brought about without formal constitutional changes. I am thinking of the whole form of the state with the introduction of parliamentaryism – it was not permitted by the Constitution at all, and finally the freedom of the press with the impact it has gradually gained. The Constitution has been brought forward and adjusted as necessary. That's exactly why it has served us so well: if necessary, we have shown our willingness to change it. I also have to say that I am very much in favour of the minority rights that have generally been promoted in the debate, but that there is a difference between minority rights of a procedural nature and the minority rights that I believe are important, namely those relating to the protection provisions for individual freedom, central minority rights that are important in terms of power and distribution between individual and state, the principles and functioning of the rule of law, interference in the individual sphere of property, such as the fact that real property should not be taken without full compensation, the right to privacy, and also the principle that is on us as legislators, that we do not give laws retrospectively, and the constitutional division of labour between state powers, which also ensures independent courts, so that they do not sink down and become political viewpoints. On the other hand, with regard to the question of membership of international cooperation bodies, there is fundamentally another issue. It is a question of how Norway collectively organises cooperation with other sovereign states. It is a question of less scope than the core provisions of the Constitution. Sovereignty renunciation is today, unlike the first century of the Constitution, not sovereignty renunciation to other countries, but to international organisations, where Norway interacts with other countries, and where other countries, for their part, also provide sovereignty. Norway exercises its influence over other countries through participation in such joint organisations in exchange for a certain waiver of sovereignty in a limited area, to which § 93 also refers. Norway itself has increased influence beyond its own territory. In addition to national self-determination, we have international participation. With regard to the concrete proposals for constitutional changes that we are discussing today, these proposals do not go beyond the fact that there will still be a significant minority brake and a stop mechanism on majority will, if you say so. There's no change in principle, but a difference in degree. Firstly, the requirement of a three-quarters majority as a condition for joining supranational bodies will apply if a referendum is not held. On the other hand, if a referendum is held, a minority of one-third, or 57 representatives in this Chamber, would still be able to stop an international attachment to the minority. So the minority, despite the will of the people expressed in a referendum, can still, by virtue of just being a minority in the United Kingdom, stop international cooperation that the minority does not want. The question that is at issue here today is not the principle of minority rights, but how large this minority must be to put aside the outcome of a democratic referendum. A supplement to Section 93 of the Constitution, as proposed by the proposers, will be more adapted to the need for binding international cooperation in many areas. I think the overfocusing of the EU also shows that there are people stuck in old ideas. But the problems of the future show that we have greater needs, not less, for internationally committed cooperation. At the same time, this proposal also provides us with a basis for our constitution for referendums when this institute is used. That should actually be commended to the proposers and not criticised by our conservative constitutionalists, where I am also a little phalanx. This continues to be combined with a comprehensive minority guarantee, only with the change that this minority must at least bring together one third of Storting’s representatives. I also noticed that the representative Tingelstad Wøien began to argue with the principle of popular sovereignty. I think that's rather bold. The popular sovereignty principle rests on the principle that the people give themselves laws – contrary to what was before, that the sovereignty came from God to some monarch in a form of government in which the government inherited certain families. The popular sovereignty principle broke this down and implemented the 1789 principle that the people give their own laws. Then I suppose in a democracy it's the majority that gives itself these laws, and not the minority. I will answer yes to the amendments when I am asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e793	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e796	The representative Tetzschner made claims about my post which I cannot deny, that it was not correct what was said about the Norwegian Constitution. The Norwegian Constitution is the oldest in continuous operation in Europe if you do not expect San Marino, which I do not expect the representative Tetzschner to do. They have an older constitution, but they have a very special constitution, and it's the second oldest in the world. The United States has an older constitution. So I think the representative Tetzschner should be careful to say that the posts of other representatives are not correct when what you say is actually right. I would like to see evidence that it is not right that the Norwegian Constitution is the longest-functioning law in Europe other than San Marino. I believe that the claim that the Right is a constitutional conservative party is also wrong, because if you want to change the main premise throughout the Constitution, that it will be easier to give sovereignty to a country, that claim falls on its own unfairness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e803	Finally, it is not that you give sovereignty because you think you have too much to care for in Norway, but it is among other things. because we now live in an international globalised economy, and we also have other global problems that need to be solved internationally. What we then change in the form of a slightly less home law directive, we win by entering into international organisations that together make powerful decisions against common problems that do not know national borders. We formally lose some home sovereignty against getting increased co-power in the world and thus get behind the problems and solve them. With regard to the claim of Norway’s constitution and its age, my point was not the date – we agree on that: 17 May 1814. Denmark is changing the date when it amends the Constitution, even if it is from 1849. But what was my point was that two thirds of the Constitution is quite new provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e810	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e814	Many comments have been made about the claims that the majority vote and the proposers have the EU case and the change of the rules of the game, as it is called, in mind. The statements shall be made on behalf of those representatives. For my part, I would at least say from Stortinget's pulpit that this is not my motivation. My motivation is, as it emerges from the vote, the principle consideration, just as it has been said by many, that a quarter of the national assembly should be able to block a majority, who have also been tried in a referendum, I believe is a wrong balance. I would also like to put forward the argument that I have not noticed, but which I should perhaps have had in my introduction post: The alternative to using § 93 is to use § 112, which then has to rest over a choice. But seeing that in x cases, there was a big discussion in a big period about a waiver of sovereignty, and not using § 93, but using § 112, and the people said their way through a election, so they chose two thirds in total – then there are not three fourths, then there are two thirds. No one is protesting. What I want to say on behalf of the majority in the vote is that it is the parliamentary constitutional logic that relates to the reasoning that I am now making, which is the actual motivation for the position of the majority, and at least for my position. This should be borne in mind, because it is also linked to the reasoning put forward by the representative Skei Grande in principle, at my discretion, in a very good way, namely the minority right of democracy and parliamentarianism, which must, of course, be safeguarded. But if it is that you actually believe that the majority position here is weakening minority rights in principle, then at least there must be other arguments than those that have come now – for them I can't hear – if you are able to think in principle and not think in the EU. The accusations that the majority have the European Union in mind are, of course, a reasoning I hear, but it's true to say the opposite too: you can't think in principle because you just think about the European Union. I'm not going to say that that's the case, but at least it's going to turn this argument all the way around. I sat and thought about whether I should use the expression, but I think I'm doing it now when I'm standing here: I think it's a little sin and regret that we can't think about a matter like this in principle, because this isn't a weakening of the regime, it's not a weakening of the principle of sovereignty, and it's not a weakening of minority rights, as it turns out. Had it been the basis for believing that it was essentially parliamentary, I would not have been in favour of it. But it's this logic that I've now tried to put forward, which is so vital that we should take the position that the majority of the vote is based on. I don't know if it's time now, or if the explanation of vote will be taken a little later, so maybe more people will hear it. There are a lot of text messages about how to vote. But I say it at least now, and then I'd rather repeat it if it was required as we approach the vote: in the Workers' Party, it is such that our representatives are set free. Those who vote in favour and rely on the majority voting shall vote yes three times. Those who support the representative Jette F. Christensen shall vote no in the first vote and then yes in the next two.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e825	For information and for any use in replying to text messages, the President may inform us that he intends to facilitate our voting on roll call during the treatment of I, but that we have regular voting on II and III. I will come back to this when we take the matter up to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e828	I want to take the opportunity, since it doesn't promise so often, to say that I agree with absolutely everything the previous speaker said. Absolutely everything Martin Kolberg now said, I totally agree, because he actually hit the nail on his head. Sometimes it's so hard to discuss a question of principle, because you have a kind of case law that makes you unable to raise your head and see how this really affects your constitution. I think it's been interesting to listen to, because I'm also among those who claim to be relatively constitutional conservative. I wasn't aware that there were so many Constitutional Conservatives around this room, so it's going to be exciting to see how in this room during the next magnification period you're going to deal with the position of the Human Rights Committee, which is a big and comprehensive revision proposal to the Constitution. Actually, you could almost cancel that debate, based on the fact that everyone is so constitutionally conservative here that someone would rather not change anything. So I look forward to that discussion. It has been claimed that this change in Section 93 will reduce or destroy minority rights. That's not right! I even believe that the representative Sande said that minority rights should protect us from the majority in this Chamber, but this proposal is, after all, about protecting itself from the majority of the people, and that is, after all, something else. The people are our bosses, that's the people we should listen to. The representatives of Solhjell and Langeland have discussed my personal motives behind this, that my motive should be to sneak Norway into the EU. It's not. Those who know me know what I mean about the EU, and if there had been a vote today about whether Norway should join the EU or not, I would vote against it. I would then vote against this proposal. Although, of course, I see that someone wants to make this an EU issue, and that the EU is a natural part of that discussion, as that is what we have experience on – I understand – this is not about it. I believe that very many of the arguments put forward here are about the principle, that is, how large the minority must be to prevent the implementation of the people's will, not by the will of this Chamber, but by the will of the people. It's something bigger, it's something bigger than what's happening to us sitting here. The EU case is completely irrelevant to the Norwegian political debate. It'll be for a long, long time, and I'm kind of happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e841	The representative Tetzschner stated that what we are discussing is a relationship with the Constitution that is relevant in a number of cases, for example on the issue of international climate negotiations. Incidentally, § 93 has not had any relevance to it, nor can we see that § 93 is an appropriate paragraph in the future in terms of what is a natural agreement that must be made to limit climate problems, as it is in a number of other international areas. The rationale for the proposal, presented by two former leaders of the European Movement, is that the Constitution prevents Norway from entering the EU. One wants to make it easier. It is then said that from no-side in the EU issue we do not argue in principle. Yes, I'm arguing in principle. We say that we want to have a constitutional protection against sovereignty repudiation based on having advisory referendums, and that we need three-quarters support in the Grand Duchy. That is our principle position, in line with others who have a fundamental position that one should have advisory referendums where there is two-thirds support in the Storting. There shall be a significant majority in order to address such sovereignties as are a radical intervention in the future power and authority of the Storting. It was also the big discussion over three days in 1962, when Section 93 came in on the waiver of sovereignty in a limited area. At the time, Stortinget was fully aware of what a disputed, and therefore it also left the strong minority protection if one chose to have a case processed so that it would not go over two major periods. That's why I would recommend the majority to read the 1962 debate, so that you get it. In that case, Section 93 was relevant to the EEC, as it was in the past, when one could argue that it was in a limited area. That is not the case today. Today, what is now called the European Union appears in a completely different way. It's clear decisions, considering you're going to have a federal state. One goes in such a direction, so that one must be very capable to say that we are now talking about the European Union in a limited, factual area. Therefore, it is the opinion of the Centre that Paragraph 93 is not applicable to Norwegian membership of the European Union in the future. Then we are facing changes according to Section 112 of the Constitution. I am pleased with the debate and especially pleased that the Workers' Party is setting its representatives free in such an important matter. It is good for the red-green cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e857	The size shall now vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e865	The case concerns proposals for amendments to the Constitution. The proposal for a decision is divided into three Roman numerals, and we vote first over I. The proposal for a decision under I is that consent to the transfer of sovereignty may be given by a two-thirds majority once an advisory referendum has been held. So it is option I of the original proposal that is proposed. There will be votes at roll call, and the roll call starts with Representative No. 9 from Eastfold County, Line Henriette Heimdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e909	There were 168 votes cast. The draft decision under I has not received the sufficient constitutional majority in the vote and has therefore been rejected. We will then vote over II in the vote proposal for a decision, and it is assumed that an alternative 2 to the change in Section 93 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e943	We then put to the vote the proposal for Decision III, which means that a proposal to introduce the provision in Section 93 on the referendum consultation is not accepted. During the debate, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:24 from Rune J. Skjellaaen, Anna Ceselie Brustad Moe and Kari Mette Prestrud on the amendment of the Constitution § 93 [[2007-2008]] [[Parliament adopted the legislative resolution]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e972	As a result, we have finished voting on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e986	The Committee has reviewed the State Council's protocols for the spring of 2011. It's been a relatively thorough review, it's always been. This is a statutory task for Stortinget. In accordance with Paragraph 12 of the Rules of Procedure, the amount must be paid. Point (a) of the first paragraph of point 9 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 75(f) of the Constitution, review the minutes of the Council of State. We did that for the first half of 2011. There have been some challenges this time with some State Council protocols because of the tragic events that took place in July, which hit several ministries. It also states that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has informed the Committee that their State Council protocols had been lost. It has now been shown, after the committee was set up, that the Ministry has nevertheless been able to produce the State Council protocols. The Committee will examine the State Council Protocols for the Ministry of Health and Welfare for the first half of 2011 for the next regular review of the State Council Protocols, which are for the autumn of 2011. Then we will both take ours and the harvest for the Ministry of Health and Welfare. As usual, the Committee has also carried out regulatory checks. This time, the Committee adopted a regulation of 24 June 2011 on the information security of electronic access to health data in treatment-oriented health records, the so-called health information security regulation – that is a long and good name. It was the intention of the Committee to forward this to the Storting Investigation Section in order to assess whether the Storting's assumptions are met by the regulation. Then we came to the situation that the Storting investigation section thought that there could actually be questions about parts of this regulation, especially about a dispensation home, which appears to be a blank mandate for the ministry to set aside all the requirements of the regulation. To this end, the Committee has addressed this issue with the Ministry and is in dialogue with the Ministry on its follow-up. As far as I know, we got a response from the department yesterday. We will return to that question in the context of the review of the State Council Protocols for the autumn of 2011. It is still – fortunately – so that most departments provide the Committee with transparency in expanded candidate lists. The Committee has pointed out on previous occasions that some departments have been too poor to follow up. In this round, all departments have followed it up, with one exception. So if that exception can now go into the fold – if I had said so – and hand over the committee expanded candidate lists when appointing posts, it would be very good with the Committee's eyes. There is no reason to extend this discussion. This debate will not take two and a half hours, but the review of the minutes of the Council of State has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e999	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1013	Normally, the National Audit Office follows up the administrative audit three years after the cases were dealt with in the Stortinget. Three years should also be sufficient to address any weaknesses identified by an ordinary administrative audit carried out by the Riksaudition. If no necessary changes have been made after three years, the matter is followed up again the following year. Document No 3:1 for 2011–2012 refers to the follow-up to 16 management audit reports. The national audit has concluded 13 out of 16 cases, while three cases are followed up. An overall committee has noted that no new studies have been announced in the 13 cases closed by the Riksaudition. This means, in the Committee's view, that management is normally good at following up the decisions taken — 13 out of 16 cases. However, the national audit will follow the efforts to achieve electronic interaction between public enterprises and to assess new studies at a later stage. Similarly, the Committee has noted that the Riksrevision will consider new studies in the light of the annual risk assessments of the national child protection system. Two of the cases were followed up in the ongoing review. The defence's prerequisites for participation in operations abroad, where reference is made to the reference in Document No. 1 for 2011–2012, and developments in respect of compliance with the time limits for dealing with criminal offences. The three issues to be followed up on are: Survey by the National Audit Office of the Administration of the Automobile Support Scheme on Sustainable Land Planning and Land Disposal in Norway Authority exercise for the reduction of NOx emissions With regard to the motor vehicle support system and the follow-up to the State of Labour and Welfare, an overall committee is pleased that the Rikssaudition has examined in its follow-up the areas highlighted by the Control and Constitutional Committee in the Innst. 187 S for 2010–2011, where the Committee pointed out that reorganisation would make sense if it resulted in shorter procedural periods, improved quality and increased non-discrimination. A Joint Committee has noted that it has taken longer than expected to set up and staff the five regional car centres and agrees with the Riksrevision that it is important for users that matters be dealt with within a reasonable time and that non-discrimination is ensured. It is therefore unfortunate that the procedure has increased. The Committee therefore agrees with the Riksrevision that efforts need to be stepped up. The Committee is pleased that the matter will be pursued further. The other subject to follow-up is the National Audit Office’s investigation into whether the Ministry of the Environment has implemented measures to follow up the compliance with the values and principles that the Storting emphasises in land management. A Joint Committee has noted that the Ministry has put in place a number of measures and may refer to improvements in some areas, such as a stable lower level of land reclamation and a more dense and increasing collective proportions in the large cities. The majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advances and the Right, indicates that there is a negative trend in other areas. These include fewer non-interventional areas, high pressure on the snaufjell and wild areas, an increase in the number of exemptions in the coastal zone and a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions and urban air pollution. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision will continue to follow up the case, where no significant impact of the measures implemented under the Planning and Building Act and the Nature Diversity Act has yet been demonstrated. As regards the third case raised by the Riksrevision, which concerns the efforts of the authorities to reduce NOx emissions in order to comply with the Gothenburg Protocol, the Committee has noted that Norway’s obligations have not been fulfilled and that the measures taken have not sufficiently reduced emissions. The Committee is therefore pleased that the Riksrevision expects the Ministry to implement new measures to help Norway fulfil the NOx obligations of the Gothenburg Protocol and is pleased that the Riksrevision will also follow up this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1058	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1072	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1081	The main objective of the civil protection obligation is to support the recruitment of military protection – and to ensure equal distribution of the burden on society. Today, the situation is that only approx. 200 crews carry out civil protection obligations annually. This, of course, is linked to the fact that only a minority of those under protection are now performing first-time duties. In numbers, it's 8,000 of about. 60000 persons subject to depreciation per year. In other words, it is only a little in excess of three out of 1,000 people who are in the service of civil protection. Thus, the concept of protection has changed a lot, and the validity of the equality argument has consequently significantly weakened. The majority of the Committee, made up of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, no longer considers that there are serious grounds for continuing civil protection obligations and supports the government's proposal to discharge civil protection obligations as a service. It is unlikely that more people will apply for an exemption from the protection obligation for reasons of civil protection, and winding-up will have a very small impact on the operational capability of the defence. The system of exemption from the law in respect of those with basic pacifist convictions is continued, and ratings exempted for such reasons may continue to be seconded to civil protection. The draft law provides for the possibility of introducing more stringent exemption procedures. It is important to lodge applications for exemptions from the obligation to issue them on grounds other than those of purely pacifist nature, with the intention of avoiding their obligations as guardians. Once again, this is about approx. 200 crews a year, and I agree with the department's assessment, that the value benefits of the discharge of civil protection duties exceed the disadvantages. Instead of serving civil protection obligations, these persons will be able to continue any studies or participation in the labour market, which is also positive both for individuals and for society. Nor are any of the contracting entities that have based their operations on civil protective ratings, even though they have been a positive complement to their employees. Should special considerations be given to the reintroduction of civil protection obligations, this shall be done through consideration of legislative proposals in the Stortinget. The Ministry has stated that rules imposing relatively extensive obligations on citizens should be careful to introduce regulations. This is an assessment we support. This need not lead to a major loss of time in any situation where this would be the case. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have a different view on the winding-up of the civil protection obligation now. I do not find any reason – at least not initially – to comment more on their views. The majority of the Committee believes that the situation today and the provision of the legislative proposal, including by means of means of tightening up the exemption procedures, make it highly justified and – I believe – right to discharge the civil protection obligation as a form of service now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1107	As the rapporteur mentioned, the Government has submitted Prop. 10 L for 2011 to 2012 on the winding-up of the civil protection obligation. We from the Progress Party are responding to this and are going to vote against, on the grounds that this is suitable for undermining the entire protection system. The protection system has been crucial to the defence capabilities of Norway in the post-war period, and is still to be decisive in relation to the security that our country will have. We are therefore responding to the fact that we have chosen to go to Stortinget with this matter without taking a major debate on the duty of protection in its entirety. It will be to derail the debate to argue with how few actually deserve the civil protection obligation, but also to use the argument that very few of those who have to be outsourced are called under the military duty of protection. The obligation to provide protection is being abolished by depreciating fewer people on duty, rather than taking the big, fundamental discussion of what the country has earned in relation to whether or not to continue to provide protection. I do not take a position on that in this post, but I react to what I would call a de minimisisation in the argument that the government parties are leading on this. It is also interesting to note in this proposition the views of the Hearing Officers on this issue. It's interesting to read the Advocate General's view on this -- he should be a very important advisor to the government on this issue. The Advocate General opposed the proposal because he considered that the discharge of the civil protection obligation would be appropriate to weaken the military protection obligation. He also draws parallels to the interwar period -- and I quote from the proposition, where it says: ‘It is difficult to see decisive differences between the situation in the interim war period and the situation today which would mean that a system that has been put in place at the time and since then is currently being phased out. Civil protection is part of the obligation to provide protection. The discharge of the civil protection obligation is appropriate to weaken the military protection obligation.’;» There are strong words from one of the government's most important advisers on this with the duty of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1128	Although most of it looks pink at the moment, we should have sufficient experience in this country to have at least it with us that the picture and the situation can change quickly. It is just a question of whether today's government and government parties should have listened more to the leading professional expert in this field, namely the Advocate General. In the past year, we have had sufficient events that should have lit at least one warning lamp in the department that had put this matter at risk and chosen to see it in a slightly larger context – it is only to refer to 22 July or extreme weather in the West or other situations that have arisen. In today's picture and with today's rose-red sky only to show that there are only 8,000 men who complete the initial service of a coal of about 8,000. 60000 per year, in fact, is not a good reason. It's a signal that at last is a kind of disguised attack on the general duty of protection. We have had a law that has regulated itself in many ways, that has governed itself, and that has led to fewer applicants for civil service. However, in certain situations, civil service has a purpose, namely to support defence if necessary. On the right, we are more than happy to take part in a debate on these issues, and on how to organise the duty of protection for the future, but not in this way as such. We could, for example, had a golden opportunity when the government and the Ministry of Defence are presenting their new long-term defence plan in this session, where the term ‘protection obligation’ is also going to be discussed. It is expected that the government will present its long-term plan at the end of March this year. What we have reason to believe is that even more people will be tempted by the possibility of applying for an exemption. This is going to mean that the defense too is likely to have greater problems recruiting professionals in the fields of medical, dental or other academic professions, on which the defense of the seventh and last is so very, very dependent. I believe that even those who are called in at the end and who have to carry out the first-time service – that is, the duty of protection that should in principle cover everyone – will be able to sit on a hill and feel that you are the world, is this a fair system? What are we going to have to do that all the other people who get away from it don't have to be sorry? There's an implementation of an injustice set in a kind of system, which I think we all would have insisted on taking more thorough time to evaluate in a larger context. There are some principles about the term of duty that make that in today's situation, with today's threat picture and today's lack of an obvious enemy around us, we can escalate the vigilance, and we can allow ourselves to call in smaller crews. But in a given situation, it takes so terrible, terrible a long time to move back to start and start building up new systems. We have no guarantee that in the future there will be no special situations that will make it necessary for crews to support the Defense. The only thing we're sure of is that these situations are going to show up. Against this background, the Right is going to vote against this proposal that seems to have a majority today, and we would have preferred this to be subject to both a fairer and more thorough discussion than it is put up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1143	For decades, the system of civil protection has been a possibility for pacifists to release military service. Nevertheless, she has been part of the compulsory protection scheme. The debate on whether or not to shut down the civil service has gone on several things – for example. whether this may weaken the military safeguards and whether the search case may materially arise when a person now fails to discharge the civil protection obligation if a person is exempted from military protection. Furthermore, it is about economics. With scarce frameworks, it is important to give priority to resources where the need is greatest. Since so few indulge in the ordinary duty of protection, many of the arguments for keeping the civil service up have fallen away. We in the Center Party have, however, been skeptical of this change, but we recognize the arguments for liquidation. The number of people serving the military first time has fallen sharply. Thus there is a greater proportion of those who have been exempted because of the over-intelligence, who have a measure of civil protection duty than those who have a military first-time duty. We have been concerned that the system should be able to be put back into operation quickly, if necessary. The legislative proposal adds up to this. When this locking mechanism is in place, we've been able to go for the change. The representative Kristiansen says the government party should think that things can change quickly. That's exactly what we take height in the legislative proposal. For good civil protection in Norway, civil defence is particularly important. It is worth stressing that ratings who are exempted from military service for over-significant reasons may still be outsourced to civil defence service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1158	The Christian People's Party is strongly attached to the duty of protection. When more people are inside the defense, and more people know about the defence issues, they can also talk about it to other people they meet. That's what I think makes less distance between the Defense and most people. In this sense, the obligation of protection is one that ensures a good recruitment of the defence, and one also ensures that young people are allowed to carry out a socially useful task. The duty of protection is the support of the Norwegian defence. But developments have been great — from almost all men in each year’s coal to the fact that there is now only a small proportion of each youth coal that performs military first-time service and that the government now chooses to discharge the civil protection obligation. This is really the same thing as saying that we don't have a general protection obligation. Maybe it hasn't been sufficiently practiced, but the principles change anyway. In many ways, there's actually a little bit of justice in this case, because there's gradually only a small part of the credits that carry out this service for society. In fact, it's probably only closer to a quarter that carries out the ministry. If you look at boys and girls together, we're down to under 15 pst. providing initial military service. Then it is important that their efforts, and that they spend one year of their life on social service, are properly valued. It is important that this service is meaningful and attractive. The fact that we now choose to remove the civil part of the duty of protection without a full review is irresponsible. As others have pointed out, it should have been listened to by the Advocate General's warning. The Christian People's Party has strong faith in the duty of protection, and we have strong faith in the civil part of the duty of protection. Instead of winding it up, we'll have developed it. In one case earlier in this big year, we promoted a proposal that just went into it. We want a greater proportion of people who participate in social work. One solution might be that one facilitates everyone's need for a period of protection, and then chooses one even if it's military or civil. It may be about working as a well-being worker in school or in a nursing home. It may be to work in a voluntary organisation, in a sports team, in congregations or in relief work. At first it is not certain that this should be for an entire year, but it should perhaps be for a shorter period. The duty of protection is an important part of Norwegian defence, and the duty of protection deserves more debate in the future. Earlier in this period, there was also an inter-pelling debate on the very duty of protection, and I think we should see a larger whole when we talk about civil protection, also into the military duty of protection. The Christian People's Party's proposal to develop civil protection would give more legitimacy to the duty of protection and contribute a great deal to the benefit of other people and those who carry out the service. We fear that the step that has been taken today is a step towards resolving the general duty of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1175	The government believes that the time is now ripe to set the finish line for the service that has so far been assigned to teams that, for reasons of conviction, do not find it compatible to carry out service with weapons in hand. The main purpose of the civil protection obligation is to support the recruitment of the military protection obligation. The existence of an alternative service and the possibility of being entrusted with service of up to a period of 12 months is considered to be a corrigendum for possible applications motivated by reasons other than purely pacifist. The number of applications for military service exemption for reasons of persuasion has been strongly decreasing. In 1998, 3 008 applications were registered, while in 2010 only 345 exemption applications were registered. In the view of the government, therefore, there are no longer sufficient serious reasons for continuing a system of secondment of civil guardians for compulsory service of up to a period of 12 months. However, for the fulfilment of international obligations, the exemption system of the law must be continued. This implies that the military denial law should continue to provide for the possibility of being exempted from military service for reasons of persuasion. The Government essentially proposes a continuation of today’s exemption system, which means that individuals can be exempted from military service by signing a declaration of compliance with the law’s exemption conditions. The decision-making bodies shall continue to be able to obtain further information from the applicant if necessary. In this context, the applicant may be required to meet in person with the decision-making bodies for the submission of oral explanations in the case. Applicants shall, as at present, be checked against the police's criminal record and fines records for any allegations of violence. It is important, in my opinion, that the exemption institute is not seen as a solution for rapid termination from the ongoing military service. Therefore, applicants shall be able to continue to be held in a military position for up to four weeks until the decision on the exemption is taken. During this period, the service shall take place without the crew itself carrying arms. No major change is expected in the applicant mass as a result of the decommissioning of civil services. However, the legislative proposal incorporates certain safety valves that could be updated if the applicant mass was considered to be a challenge to military interests. Under today's legislation, the King has the power to decide that all applicants shall provide oral explanations to the decision-making bodies on a routine basis. This facility is now proposed to be extended so that other enhanced exemption procedures can also be introduced. In addition, openings are provided to distinguish between different categories of applicants, so that enhanced exemption procedures could be reserved for specific applicant groups. The above-mentioned rules are expected to contribute to the promotion of waiver requests based on the considerations to be taken into account by the Military Dispensation Act so that the exemption institution is essentially reserved to genuine conscientious objectors. Teams exempted from military service for reasons of persuasion may also be assigned to civil protection. Instead, the defence's recruitment needs will be addressed by means of, inter alia, a new session scheme, with a high quality selection and crew distribution, and a meaningful and meriting initial service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1204	As mentioned in several articles here today, the Advocate General in the hearing gave very strong warnings to the government against doing so. As the Minister of Justice has the background she has, I would like to ask a question: What signals does the government send out by not following the advice of such an important adviser on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1210	I feel it has been made a thorough assessment of whether it is right to continue the civil protection obligation. Clearly, with 345 exemption requests in 2010 and a downward trend over a long period of time, it may be said that demand has not been all the world, but the law states that military negotiators should continue to have the opportunity to refuse. The Advocate General knows very well – as was the case with a former Minister of Defence – that we used to have a very high level of personnel-intensive defence. Now we have a very competence-intensive defence, where technology and equipment require completely different skills, as well as investment. This, in view of the attractiveness fortunately attached to the initial service, is not to make a continuation of the scheme necessary in the interests of the military... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1217	In some cases, things happen very quickly in the government. On February 16, 2011, i.e. less than a year ago, I had a question to Minister of Defence Grete Faremo, who said: ‘According to the VG, the Workers’ Party’s Judicial Fraction will release military negotiators from civil service. In that case, is this a proposal supported by the government and will not the winding-up of civil service be a final farewell to the general obligation regime that we have in Norway?’ State Council Faremo then answered the following: ‘The obligation to provide services is strong in Norway. If there is any doubt with the representative Kristiansen, it is important for the Workers' Party to maintain this strong popular anchoring. This is also reflected in our party programme for the period 2009-2013.» The working party is in some cases quite good at accusing others of losing their program posts. What makes it so easy for the Workers' Party to remove this very important programme item?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1234	I could have repeated myself today. The general duty of protection shall be continued. It is clear, with the system we have with the duty of session also for women, that this provides a good basis for the implementation of the initial service. It is called in today approx. 8 000 for the first time military service, and I can't see that the termination of the civil protection service is essential for the maintenance of the general duty of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1239	In the exchange of lines, it could at least be heard as if the Council of State had been thinking of doing something about the duty of protection, because she was clear that the defence needs were not strengths, but more competence. But whether she is today clear that she will uphold the duty of protection, I am concerned with the principle of removing the civil duty of protection. As a former Air Force just a few years ago, it didn't always feel as fair that my friends escaped from the military while I had to carry it out. Going step by step in the direction that you choose at least makes it a direction where the general protection obligation becomes less general. I see it as evading the principles of general protection. Doesn't the Minister of Justice also see that what's happening today is moving one step away from what's been traditional in the duty of protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1246	The duty of protection, I believe, is very important, and it exists. The same applies to the session obligation, which has also been extended to women. Fortunately, the search for the military initial service is good, while the demand for civil service has been strongly declining. In line with maintaining an expensive system that no demand has been made, the government has come to the conclusion that it was right to propose the termination of this system, but of course without the possibility of refusing military service being terminated. How it is going to continue, I have also explained, and how with it we maintain our international obligations. Should there be changes that require a new thinking about this, it will also be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1251	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1254	I think the Council of State has given a good account of the background to this proposal. We're all concerned that we should have a good defense, and we're all concerned with justice. The last thing, always to be completely fair, is really a bit of a difficult subject, if I can say it this way. If anyone is concerned about the defence capability attached to the protection obligation, a focus should be on all those who do not deserve protection and not on those who are exempted for pacifist reasons. For questions can also be asked about how fair it is that these precisely have to serve a duty of protection, while half have already been selected by a self-declaration on the Internet. So if you're concerned with defense or justice, I think the focus is on other parts of our protection system than the 200 that apply annually. I think there are limits to how big a case one should make out of this. And I repeat, if it should develop over time so that it was necessary to reintroduce it, then this assembly can do it relatively quickly. So I would also remind you that it could be natural for those who are here to be exempted to do civil defence tasks and be printed there. There will always be important societal tasks to be solved. We're looking at this a little bit differently. We believe that doing what we are doing today is entirely justified both in terms of justice and defence. We're going to have so much motivated people out in military service now, and it's going to be so positive also with regard to further professional careers, etc., that the Council of State was inside, that I think the few will sit on cracks and annoy themselves over the 200 that will no longer have civil protection obligations. Then maybe someone will think about why there are so many people who don't do this service. I think that those who are most engaged here should go up and make it clear, if you think that one will have far more in protective arrangements. I believe that the major challenges associated with the provision of services in the Norwegian community need to be addressed in ways other than through protection. Instead, good Community solutions must be put into practice and given proper priorities in the future. Then I would like to add one thing, especially linked to the care sector, which I know very well: it is important that we also stimulate continued extensive and good family care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1269	I took the floor because I felt challenged and would like to answer that challenge. It is true that I believe that one does today, in principle, one step away from the general duty of protection. I think those who are admitted to the duty of protection, and who are serving civil protection duty, are able to serve. They're going to the defense, and then they're released for conscience reasons. It's something completely different than those that are not called in. Then one can begin to discuss the justice of the whole arrangement, as we did, and that's exactly why the Christian People's Party believes that one should take a complete discussion about the duty of protection, not just civil protection, and then pushed on the military duty of protection – one should not take the two decisions together. I can also say for my own part, which I was inside in my post, that I think it would have been exciting to see this further. That is why our proposal was to exercise civil protection obligations more, in the sense that more people actually were given the opportunity to serve the duty of protection – and then military protection, if that is what they wanted, or, if necessary, civil protection. I'm sure they could be good comforters either in schools or in hospitals, or contributed to a lot of volunteer organizations, and experienced that they had had a meaningful service, while they had contributed to a lot of social work. That's why I think it would have been exciting to look at that model.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1294	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1303	It is a real pleasure for me to say that, in this case, the government parties have greatly appreciated the commitment, cooperation and cooperation of the proposers. The entire committee has worked closely together to strengthen the rights of victims of violence. As the rapporteur, I thank you for this spirit of cooperation and hope that this can and will be repeated later. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to the consultation of the Committee on the matter, and otherwise. For SV and the government, victims of violence are a very important group. They are people who, innocently, are subjected to violence and abuse and must bear the consequences of it, some of them throughout their lives. The red-green government – and the red-green parties – has a strong and necessary focus on strengthening the rights of victims of violence. Our government has taken several steps to maintain and strengthen the position of victims of violence and relatives. The rights under the Criminal Procedures Act have been strengthened, with effect from 1 January 2008, in particular: by strengthening the right to information and objection throughout the criminal proceedings, by extending the right to an aid lawyer, by improving contact with police and prosecution authorities, by extending the right to be present in judicial proceedings, by increasing the rights in connection with the resumption of criminal proceedings, by the right to have a free consultation with a lawyer before the notification in cases that would be covered by the aid lawyer’s system, and by raising the age limit for the use of judicial hearings from 14 to 16 years. Furthermore, the system of assistance offices for crime victims has been made permanent, and strengthened, by the establishment of several offices. There are eight children's homes in the country. In the 2012 state budget, both the Office for Victim Compensation and the State Civil Service have received increased appropriations. This will help to speed up the process. However, we are not in the target, and all parties share the opinion of the proposers that compensation for victims of violence can be improved and that victims should be given more and better rights. Therefore, we have cooperated well, which has resulted in an overall committee promoting a whole range of five proposals, in which the government is given the task of assessing how to clarify the rules on legal aid to displaced persons abroad, of clarifying the requirement for knowledge – so that the limitation period does not run until the victim has acquired actual knowledge of the damage and the real opportunity to act on the basis of this knowledge – of assessing whether it can be mitigated by other means, of initiating a cooperation meeting between the police, the violence victim state authority and the department in order to improve the exchange of information, and, finally, of assessing the establishment of a national crime victim authority based on today's structure by looking at the work and tasks of the Swedish Victim Authority. In addition, the Committee has looked closely at how the dignity and rights of victims can be safeguarded following the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011. I am very pleased that a joint committee has worked with the ministry to find good solutions, that the government has sent a long and comprehensive note at the hearing, and I look forward to continuing to work on the follow-up to the hearing replies that are about to come in. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1322	I would like to start by thanking the case spokesman and the committee for their close and good cooperation in this matter. It is not often that matters which are advanced as a representative proposal are so favourably recommended by a joint committee as in this case. It may also be linked to the fact that, in parallel with the handling of these cases, the Ministry has a hearing on civil claims following the acts of terrorism on 22 July last year, and proposals for some changes to the law on compensation for victims of violence. It is a fact that the state of power has been considerably strengthened in recent years. Things that have received a positive answer for the seeker have increased considerably. Similarly, there has been a marked increase in average payments and in total payments to victims of violence. But this is not only a result of the fact that the victims of violence have been given better and more rights, but also of the good functioning of the proceedings. Everyone is concerned about the speed and effectiveness of the procedure. Equally important is the good, effective and rapid handling of complaints. Therefore, a long-term evaluation of the best organisation of review procedures should be carried out in order to ensure both quality and efficiency, as the ministry is also doing. It is positive that the pledges to the Victim Compensation Office and the Government of the State have been strengthened in 2012. This, together with a new case-handling system, will help to speed up the processing of applications for compensation for victims of violence and to improve and speed up the handling of complaints. I'm not going to repeat all the points the case spokesperson mentions, but more concentrate my post on how important it is that we have good arrangements in this area. Firstly, it is tragic that some people experience injuries as a result of elective acts. Some also experience having to pay for their lives. Others are hurting their health for the rest of their lives, and others lose their natural freedom. In addition, this results, directly or indirectly, in the presence of too many children, survivors and dependants. Victim compensation for injury to a person may include measles, reparation, compensation for loss of income and compensation for expenses incurred in connection with the damage. I am pleased that we are now some about raising the ceiling for the payment of compensation from 40 G to 60 G, and that it will be given retroactive effect and will apply from 1 January 2011. There are several who have raised the question whether there should be a maximum level of compensation for victims of violence at all. This is a question that we will come back to when the Ministry will shortly present its proposal for changes to the law on the compensation of victims of violence. Of course, there must be much more for the victims of violence to have claims that would exceed the ceiling, but one should not ignore the fact that in very special cases there would be a need to do so, so that young victims of violence, especially and victims with high costs of future care, could have a life with a general standard of living. But this question, as I said, will come back later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1343	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and the good response we have received from the Progress Party on our proposal for a representative. After all, we are all aware that it is perhaps more exceptional than the rule that the opposition parties' own proposals have been met with the positiveness and understanding with which they have been met, and not least ended up in proposals with support. Here the big fraction and departments, with Astri Aas-Hansen at their head, have done a very good job. But little did we know in June last year, when we put forward the proposal, about what would happen later in the summer, and which would not least update the proposals of the Progress Party to an even greater extent. As the rapporteur pointed out in his statement, it has been negotiated on most of the proposals, where it has been to give and take for all the parties. We in the Progress Party are also fully aware that an alternative to getting something through, as in this case, as well as ensuring progress, would have been that the whole proposal might have been voted down. That the government parties had promoted their own case later this year, would have been the consequence, with perhaps delays that we had not served. So a little bit of wormwood I have to pour into the covetousness. In this context, it is also important to take into account that serious incidents should not be necessary until we see the need to have a law that takes care of different parts of our society. Then we're actually at the heart of the matter, because there are all the victims we want to put the search light on, not just those who have been hit after the proposal in June. There's no time to lose. Every day victims are exposed to different events. Parents of killed children have been involved in the preparation of the proposal, as has the Stine Sofies Foundation. Of course, they feel some form of powerlessness by the fact that it needed such a serious event to be heard to some extent. Unfortunately, many of these matters will not benefit from a changed law, but the affected should at least know that their fight for justice benefits the victims of the future. We have all been committed to looking at the limitation period, and we want the government to look at a decoupling of the law on the compensation of victims of violence from the ordinary rules on limitation in order to ensure better care for the victims of the past. In public space there have been discussions as to the amount of the compensation and the ceiling on the compensation. In principle, we have wanted to remove the roof, but in any case, after negotiations, this has been much more than a dollar and a penny for us in the Progress Party. It's about raising awareness that the victims need to be seen, taken seriously, get uplifted, get qualified help, feel that justice prevails, and not least about getting a law that takes care of the individual's needs when everyday life breaks down. That's why we've had a lot of focus on creating something completely new, that's a victim care service similar to the one they have in Sweden. Here we find that the committee has given us support, and not least that we have got this in place politically. A good suggestion can always be better. It is paradoxical that this new bill should not apply to children under the age of 16, as suggested in the letter of consultation. This means that the increase from 40 to 60 G should not apply to this group. We have always thought that the proposals we are now discussing were backed up, but now we are looking at the proposal from the Department, which has been sent to the hearing, that this is not the case. That is why we have now put forward a proposal which is on the table of the representatives. It is a bit of the valve that the representative of Bohemia has talked about before. We are convinced that it is entirely in line with the Committee's wishes, this would have been known when the Committee decided on the matter in the Committee. In the second proposal we are making, we ask the government to open up the possibility of applying for compensation for victims of violence for children under 16 years of age in cases where compensation is granted under Norwegian law, but where the unruly has taken place outside the borders of Norway, but with Norwegian perpetrators. Finally, these proposals for change are just a small step on the way to lifting the entire care of victims. It has been difficult to accept that in Norway we have been in criminal care for many years, but have never had consistent and good victim care. But that's what we're going to get now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1366	Does the President feel that the representative has also taken up the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1369	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1374	Then the representative Åse Michaelsen addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1377	Both the rapporteur and the author of the motion for a resolution from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, have made the matter well known. For once, a majority government and the minority here at Stortinget have worked together on something. We often do it a little informally, but it's very rare that we can experience that we've had this kind of process. So that's very much in favour of the Right as is the Progress Party, and we also hope that this can happen a little bit more often, even before there might be a new expansion with a completely different majority constellation in 2013. I especially want to commend the Progress Party for having a driving role in this matter that has made the government, despite the majority, have been challenged in a positive way. I'm not sure we'd be sitting here with this kind of consensus, it wouldn't have been because individuals and individual parties had engaged in that way. Then we've supported others about it. Therefore, I think there is reason to praise and honor the one to be honored. The right is very satisfied with all of the points, especially the one about limitation. That's a central point that, among other things, The Stine Sofie Foundation has recorded. They also deserve praise for their sometimes very active – understood – influence on us, but it carries fruits today. Right-wing sympathises with the proposals promoted by the Progress Party. There's good reason to discuss in the future why there should at all be a fundamental difference between one like that. is injured in a car accident, and someone who has had his life ruined by violence from a physical person and not a car. What violence actually does to a human being, not only physically but also mentally, shows more recent research. This must be taken into account by the compensation schemes at a later stage. That is why the Right-wing Group is very sympathetic to the intentions of both proposals for the Progress Party. I also want to underline what Michaelsen said at the end of the article. Although, of course, in the opposition we seem to have more amazing thoughts than the government parties combined, and preferably twice that, the opposition does not have the same investigative capacity here on the house that the government parties have. So the words with which Michaelsen's representative concluded, I hope that any suggestion of irritating the proposals that have been put forward here, are not particularly forceful in this debate, given that the Progress Party and the opposition, the Right, have been very open. We hope that there will be a corresponding openness on the part of the government parties to review these proposals here today, and not just to vote them down immediately because they were promoted so soon before the debate, because here we all agree. We want increased victim care, and we will agree on that even after we leave the Chamber after the debate today, although a party has made proposals that can make decisions if possible even better than they were before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1390	In recent years, the situation of victims of violence has been high on the agenda. There is a wide range of measures that need to be taken to prevent people from becoming victims of violence and to make the best possible use of those who have been. In this case, the Judicial Committee has had a cross-political process in which the objective has been to find measures that we might be able to deal with. It is not only certain that decisions can be taken in Stortinget – it can be done without a full deal. But when we are going to implement a policy for victims of violence, it becomes more evident when the proposals are presented by a joint committee. In the summer of 2011, the country was the victim of acts of terror that made very many young people victims of violence. Thus the situation of victims of violence was seen even more at the head. But it's important for me to make it clear that the committee is busy with all the victims of violence, regardless of whether they're victims of sexual assault, elected in the world, blindly elected in the streets, or as one of many in a terrorist act. The proposals put forward today will enable the victims of the election to receive better help. For example, there will be faster procedures, better consultation, and we will increase the ceiling for the collective compensation of victims. One point I would also like to point out is that the government is asked to go through legal aid circulars to clarify, if necessary, the practice of legal aid for victims of violence abroad. In connection with what I believe for my own part of the rules for whom the victims of acts of violence performed by Norwegian citizens abroad must be evaluated. As of today, there are limits to who can be compensated for by the Norwegian State in the event that the perpetrator is unable to pay himself. If two kids are attacked by the same Northman, the one can be entitled to compensation, the other can't – precisely because the one can stay in Norway when the attack takes place, the other in Sweden or another place, and then there will be different treatment for the two kids. This is worth going into, and so I support the intentions of the proposal of the Progress Party. I think this can be appreciated as part of what we have presented to us about the practice of victims of violence abroad. I hope that the Committee's proposals will enable several victims of violence to move forward more quickly in life, and that the worst framework will help to make everyday life work as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1405	It is an important agreement that the Committee has reached and that we are going to discuss here today. The Christian People's Party supports all the proposals. We're talking about a group of people who have been innocent and randomly affected, people who, perhaps in an early phase of life, are being injured as they will be affected by the rest of their lives. The fact that we can strengthen arrangements that can help them return to the best possible functioning life is important. That is why we are pleased with the proposals that are being put forward, we are pleased that the ceiling is being raised, and we are pleased with the strengthening of capacity. In 2010, 3,845 people applied for compensation for victims of violence. There has been a steady increase in the number of applications since 2007. In 2008, the increase was 7 pst., in 2009 the increase was 16 pst., and in 2010 it was 7 pst. All years are compared to the previous year. In the last seven years, the number of applications has more than doubled. The same thing is true of the payments. For the 3,845 applicants in 2010, a decision was taken on the compensation of victims of violence in 3,559 of the cases, and it was paid approximately. 196 million. kr in compensation for victims of violence. I believe it raises a timely question. Should the State be the only one who pays compensation for the acts of insult has been subjected to, or is there any possibility of more accountable to the perpetrator? In 1994 the Crime Victims Authority was established in Sweden, with responsibility for the Crime Victims Fund. The purpose of the Fund is to provide support for various financial measures and projects that may improve the situation of a victim of crime. This can happen in both public and private terms. Projects can focus on everything from simple information programmes to larger research projects. This may include support for education, counselling for victims of crime, witness protection and other direct support for activities. In addition, the Crime Victim Authority shall be a knowledge centre to improve the situation of victims of crime. The constant idea behind a system of crime victims' funds is that a criminal offence with a payment to the fund settles itself, both against the victim of crime and against society. The degree to which one succeeds in collecting the payment varies and may be limited. It is sometimes essential whether or not an obligation to pay is imposed. Payments may be measured on the basis of a case-by-case assessment or be a fixed amount. They may be for different types of crime, they may be under public or private control, national or local, operated by NPISHs or in private schemes, or in combinations thereof. In Sweden, it is therefore the Crime Victims Authority which, according to specific rules, is responsible for the Crime Victims Fund. The Victims Authority is a State body, which, in addition to the tasks of the Victims Fund, is also responsible for ‘crime compensation’, and must also be a knowledge centre to improve the situation of victims of crime. The Fund is mainly financed by those who have committed crime. The person who has been sentenced, or who has received a proposal for a condition which under law may result in the punishment of imprisonment, shall pay an amount of SEK 500 to the fund. This is in addition to the penalty he has otherwise received. The person who deserves his penalty with supervision and footlinks will pay SEK 50 per day, but not more than SEK 6000. The amount is referred to as a ‘fee’ and it is, as I said, in addition to the fine, or the penalty. I am pleased that today we are going to take a decision that we will look at a similar fund, or victim care, also in Norway, because these are exciting thoughts that we are looking forward to coming to Norway. We're good at criminal custody. Now we have to get even better on victim care too. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals that lie here today, and we also support the proposals of the Progress Party that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1429	It is not often that there is such a great harmony in the committee – and so intensely expressed. Then it's always dangerous to come from the outside and try to disturb it, so I won't go out on that. This is, as you can see, just to count as a mere explanation of vote today. We support the vote, and we will support proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party, both in vote and in intentions. I notice that the position only supports it in intentions, but not by voting, but also interprets it positively. I think it's important that we get an equal treatment at this point. As regards proposal No: 1 from the Progress Party, we believe that this has been observed in today's law as well as it should. If anything else turns out, I think it needs to be clarified in this room, but based on our review of the law, proposal is no. 1 well-kept after the law of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1438	I am pleased that the representatives Sandberg, Kielland Asmyhr, Michaelsen and Ørsal Johansen have made a proposal to improve the situation of victims of violence. Engagement is needed in this field. We know that violence causes great human suffering to those who are exposed, as well as to their family and friends. Let me start by saying something about the two proposals that have been put forward. With regard to the proposal for standardised compensation for children under 16, the Ministry of Justice is reviewing this, because the Committee on Civil Protection had a mandate to assess, inter alia, the situation of children under the age of 16. the question of standardised compensation for children under 16. The committee gave its opinion and the matter shall be referred to the ordinary hearing. As regards proposal No: 2, then this is also an area that we're already evaluating. We consider whether the Act on the Compensation of Victims should allow for compensation in cases to which the representative Michaelsen refers. But it's too early for me to say whether we want to propose legislative changes. Like the proposers, I am concerned that we should have a quick and good handling of the victims' claims, both in the first instance and in the appeals board. The case-handling time has been too long. I am therefore pleased that the Government budget for 2012 has increased the appropriations allocated to the victims’ compensation authorities, so that the total duration of proceedings may decrease. The increased appropriations will also contribute to the link between the Office for the Compensation of Victims and medical competence. On 7 December 2011, the Government submitted a proposal for some amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act and the Victim Compensation Act to be consulted. The changes have been initiated by terrorist acts on 22 July 2011, but the proposals do not apply only to victims of violence following the terrorist act. It is important that all victims of violence be treated equally and therefore the date of entry into force is proposed for 1 January 2011. In accordance with current practice, victims may, depending on the circumstances, be entitled to compensation for victims of violence. Whether or not this right should be codified is now assessed in the context of the review of the consultation opinions. In the hearing note, we also proposed that compensation for victims of violence be provided to those who have been injured as a result of providing assistance to victims for a criminal offence that violates life, health or freedom, or to avert or limit the consequences of the criminal offence. I also suggest that we increase the maximum level of compensation for victims of violence from 40 to 60 times the basic amount in the social security system, and then I believe the basic amount at the time of the decision. The hearing bodies have different views on the proposals in the hearing notes, and we need to balance the different considerations. The government will promote a proposition for the Storting in a short time. Initially, the legislation of the country in question regulates the right to free legal assistance in foreign criminal matters, and many countries have good arrangements for this. Legal aid may also be granted under certain conditions under the Norwegian legal aid scheme where the assistance provided abroad is not satisfactory. I intend to carry out a review of the rule of law of the law of the overseas countries and territories in order to assess the possible clarification of the practice in these cases. I would also like to look at the legislation on limitation. The limitation period for claims only begins when the injured party has, or should have, acquired the necessary knowledge of the damage and the person responsible. Compensation may be granted even if the criminal liability of the perpetrator has expired. The limitation period shall be suspended when the application has been lodged with the Office for the Compensation of Victims of Violence. The legislation thus takes into account that damage can develop over time and that not all victims have sufficient knowledge at an early stage. There have been some misunderstandings about this, and I will consider clarifying the requirement for knowledge, as it is important that this is made known. I would also like to assess whether it can be relieved of the limitation requirement in other ways, for example. look at the conditions under which the limitation period may be interrupted. It is always an advantage to cooperate, not least with other countries, in order to exchange experience, and we have a good cooperation with, among other things. Sweden, so I will also follow up the Committee's proposal to consider setting up a national crime victim authority. Then it is important to start from what works well here in Norway, but we will clearly also look at the work and tasks of the Swedish Crime Victims Authority. Mr. Øyvind Korsberg had here taken the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1471	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1474	There has been an incredibly constructive approach from all parties to put in place a good proposal. Then I'm going straight to the point. It concerns proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, which seems to be a little confusing, because now the Council of State is talking about standardized rates. But as I understand it now in the letter of hearing, 16-year-olds and those under that age are exempt from being lifted from 40 G to 60 G in the background of wanting to have standardised rates. Then my question to the Council of State is: Is it social status – that is, what level does each youth have to stand on – that is crucial for moving them from 40 G to 60 G? So a 15-year-old who comes from a low-wage family is assessed there that you can't go in and lift him or her from 40 G to 60 G – that there are standard rates that should apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1481	That is a very important question the representative Sandberg raises. I referred to the work of the Committee on Compensation for Damage, and in relation to the assessments made, it is important to assume that the rule on standardised compensation applies only to the loss of future acquisitions. In addition, losses already incurred, there will be compensation and compensation for, for example: care expenses. How to avoid just getting into a situation where people have to assume loss of income in the future for so young people is part of the challenge of developing good regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1486	I have questions about the principle attitude in the future work, and will ask the Council of State if she sees any fundamental difference between compensation after, for example. car accident and compensation for victims of violence in the case of an upper roof. Could the Council of State be interpreted as considering removing this ceiling in respect of the compensation of victims, both for them under the age of 16 and for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1491	The victims’ compensation scheme is a well-established and well-worked system, which is now doing better than in the past. This is also a mechanism that works in addition to the welfare schemes that victims can benefit from as a result of damage and loss. As I understand the proposals now being put into final processing in the department, with the increase in the ceiling regardless of the basis of the damage, we will also be able to meet the potential challenges of the established system, even though, as far as I understand, we have not had damage cases that have reached that 40 G ceiling.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1498	Then I will repeat my question: Is the Council of State assessing the complete removal of the ceiling in respect of compensation for victims of violence – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1503	Our starting point is to keep a roof. We're also discussing a question about whether a 60-G ceiling, as it stands, will cover up all the conceivable and unmistakable issues. How we end up dealing with it, I'm going to have to come back to the proposition that I'm going to make in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1508	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1513	Let me first thank the Committee for a great work and cooperation that has resulted in very much positive. It's all those who sit out there and have a share in this, very happy for. I'm happy about that, too. Then there are these two proposals. I have now listened to the Council of State, and as I understand the Council of State, a positive job is already in progress. I look forward to the work that the department sends to us. I hope that the proposers understand that it is difficult for us after working so thoroughly, simply to skip on these two proposals here and now and vote for them. I recommend that the proposers send these proposals to the department. We agree that these proposals must be looked at, but then they must be thoroughly examined. That treatment cannot give the Stortinget the proposals today, here and now while we are dealing with this matter, but the ministry can and will do so. So my recommendation to the proposers is that they send these proposals to the department without any real discussion here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1521	I'll just give you a brief explanation of vote. The right, as I mentioned in my main post, has great sympathy for both proposals. We are going to support proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 1, we also want the proposal to be reviewed, subject to a real review of whether or not it should be a ceiling, which I asked the Council of State. There are good reasons to look more closely at proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, but it can, as many have been involved, create some border conflicts, so the Right would recommend that it be turned into a transmission proposal. But we therefore support proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1526	I think it is very good that the two proposals that are being discussed are being met so positively, that there is no one in this room who rejects them and says this is not relevant. But the Council of State itself said that the current hearing would probably not be relevant to removing the roof. We believe that proposal No. 1 would have been a good start to get it done, so we want to vote over it -- it's so important to us. We see that in any case in the legal system where someone gets a replacement, the compensation is real. It is balanced against the need of the individual victim, and then there should be no need for a roof at all. The victims were to receive the compensation they actually deserve and have the right to receive. The starting point for us is that at least on the right road is a beginning to get it done. As regards proposal No: 2, it's clear that we don't want it to be put to the vote. So then we can agree to send over proposal No. 2 without treatment of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1535	The representative Michaelsen presented the views of the Progress Party after the debate. But the Council of State also interpreted that there were no intentions from the government to remove the roof. Then you have to deal with it even when you vote. There is no basis for transmitting or attaching to the protocol a proposal which is initially known to be opposed by the majority of governments. It is therefore important, as the representative Michaelsen also points out, that we are getting a vote on this proposal. One can think about it. The constructive and good work that has been in the Committee – cross-political – has produced an incredible number of good solutions and proposals that, hopefully, will be implemented quickly and put in place by the government. If, over the long period since the proposal was promoted, and during the long, constructive, fine negotiations in the Committee, the Committee had been aware that letters of consultation made a distinction in the case of an increase from 40 to 60 G, in the case of those 16 years old or younger, one can only draw up a scenario as to how the Committee had come up with a cross-political solution. I dare to venture the claim that then the committee had also gathered across the board to remove the roof or in each of them also included the young people in this uplift from 40 to 60 G. There's no doubt about it. That's why it's a little weird for me, and I have to say complicated, but it can't be more complicated to remove the roof for young people than for others. The party of progress has never concealed that we want to remove the roof, because there is a restriction in the assessments anyway. That is why it becomes so strange to me in such a context that it is not possible to accept such a proposal, which can be processed through further consideration both in consultation processes and when the final proposal is to be presented by the government. I strongly recommend that we vote in favour of the proposal, and then we do as the representative Michaelsen says, and submit proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1544	It concerns proposal No. 1 – again an attempt at a minor clarification. The standardised compensation rules apply only to future loss of income. In addition, losses already incurred, replacements and replacements for, for example: care expenses. As I said, these are questions that have primarily been examined in the Personal Indemnity Compensation Committee. With regard to the hearing opinions on the changes in the compensation for victims of violence, I would like to say that it appears that several of the hearing bodies have pointed out that the standard compensation law for children is unreasonable and should be amended. This issue has not really been consulted in this round, and I think those who have spoken are not aware that standardisation concerns only the loss of future acquisitions. The second paragraph of Section 4 of the Violence Compensation Act regulates the calculation of compensation for losses in future acquisitions for children under the age of 16. This is what I have pointed out could have been difficult to handle without a standardised amount. If you have to make assumptions about income for such a young person, what else will you end up with than actually endangering the social assessment of future income potential? Now, when the new scheme goes up to a replacement of up to 60 G, there is also a higher level of what can be added to the standardised measurement, which will obviously have to be reduced proportionately if the damage is less than 100 pst. But, as I said, this is an issue that is already being assessed in the ministry, which will go to the hearing, and which I therefore thought was right to explain, also in the light of the fact that there is now a proposal to make it a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1557	The situation is, as far as I am aware, that with the limit we have today of 40 G, no one has yet reached the ceiling. Now, when you raise the roof to 60 G, you're going to have an even higher level to reach. It is unlikely that any victims of violence will have claims of more than 60 G when we assume that the claim should be calculated on the basis of a universal standard of living. However, in line with what the Council of State also says, there may of course be very special cases where there is a need to be a possibility to consider whether to go above the ceiling. Young people may be so seriously injured that they almost reach 100 pst. disabled or disabled. It is then that one has to assess whether there may be a possibility of the claim exceeding 60 G. I think it's right to say from this pulpit that we, from the Labour Party's side at any rate, want a defensive treatment of such proposals. When the Council of State now confirms that the proposal is under assessment in the Department, we are most prepared to take the right procedure – that we have an assessment and a nuanced view of it from the Department’s side – before we take a final position on the matter. I have to clarify once again that the Council of State has confirmed that such proposals are available for evaluation in the Department. For this reason, I would like to request that the Progress Party also submit proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1566	Åse Michaelsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1569	It must not be that you need to be a trained lawyer to understand something when we are dealing with matters here. I really just need an answer as to whether children under the age of 16 will be raised from 40 to 60 G during the ministry's treatment and in legislative proposals that come later to the Stortinget. I need an answer to that. The representative of the Workers' Party was absent with proper treatment. Yes, I agree, but it was said in the same sentence that these are proposals that have been in the department all the time – which has been there for evaluation – and that is nothing new. There's a lot more recent for us who don't have the access to information and the opportunity to get insight into what's going on in ministerial form, which the positioning parties have. That there should be irresponsible treatment, then, is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1578	I can make the answer very brief: it's quite natural to treat it in the same way. I also understand that the representative can go wild in the public investigations and who is going to be consulted. I think it is important to stress that the public inquiry has arrived a short time ago and is being processed to be sent out at the hearing of the department with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1583	André Oktay Dahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1586	The right comes, since we do not accept this as a transmission proposal, to vote against proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It is not because we are opposed to the intention of the proposal. We choose to rely on that Council of State now assures the Government that a real assessment of the content and justifications of proposal No is to be made. 1st@item: inlistbox For the right part, I can say that if it doesn't, we will be very disappointed. We assume that this is a real assessment, even if we vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1591	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1605	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1614	A number of representatives from the Right have proposed the development of a wide-ranging police study, with a view to overall social security. This gives the representatives the reasons for improving the police's resource situation, improving public accessibility, improving preparedness and, in particular, developing an obliging contingency plan for the police resources, similar to the long-term plan we have for the defence, which is revised at regular intervals. It's clear that in the last year there have been major events in this country that make you have to look at these things again, and there are some processes going on, among other things. the Government’s 22nd July Commission. The size has set up a special committee, which is under work, to look at these very things. However, a minority in the Committee, consisting of the Advancement Party and the Right, nevertheless, despite the work done by those I mentioned here, believe that it is equally desirable to start work in the department with a police study, too much of the information that needs to be taken into consideration in such a police study is already known. In the last two and a half years, not least in the case of the judicial committee's travel activities in the police districts, clear signals have been received from both police officers and police officers that the situation in the police is very critical and that the relatively large resource availability that has been available over the past few years has not provided the desired results. In the setting, just the minority points to some obvious points that it is natural to look at in such a police study. I mention the following: The disposal of the resources made available to the police by society needs to be considered in terms of the functioning of interaction between the various emergency services. How is it to achieve the target of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants by 2020? We see that progress is going in the opposite direction. We need to look at the major challenges associated with the ICT situation in the police, the evolution of the crime scene and the helicopter situation. Furthermore, we need to look at the introduction of new working time regulations. What have they done? We have challenges related to the recruitment of new graduates from the Police College and the police's interaction with other agencies. There are obvious challenges that a police study needs to find answers to, says the minority. Not least, we have to ask, as we have had such a large increase in the budgets of the police force in recent years: what is the budget for funding in the coming years, let's say by 2020, which is a measure of the number of employees in terms of access to resources? I am addressing the proposal that the minority has put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1625	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1628	I refer you to the Stortinget's consideration of a similar proposal for a broad police study, which we dealt with here in the autumn of 2010 at Stortinget, with a smaller variation in the title, but from almost the same proposers. I have openly tried to look at the proposal for a broad police study that is available this time, to look for new elements in the justification that we can now take on board. What I find in the proposal is, among other things, Reference is made to the problems of the implementation of ICT in the police. There we have a large project that requires a lot of attention, but which is in a completely different phase than that it is a police study that can ensure that it comes on rails and can be implemented with the necessary force and reliability in the years to come. There is also a reference to the search for personnel in the police force. The proposers say that they will continue to record with 720 police college students every year until 2020. It's also opening doors, because it's to the most extent what the government parties have signaled by increasing the number from 560, which was in the crew report, the police against 2020, up to 720, so you don't need a police study to get speeded up. The case rapporteur here mentions a number of other specific issues that we are working on, such as the helicopter situation, which are also dealt with in completely different and more direct ways – without a police study being the direct need – among others. through the discussions we now have about upgrading the police helicopter preparedness we have, about a security centre and creating new instructions for rescue helicopters, so that in special situations they can assist the police around the country. I would like to refer to one relevant point in the explanatory statement to the rapporteurs, which I think is new in the proposal for a police study this time, and that is what is mentioned about overall preparedness. It's true that it's a big theme that we have to work a lot on in the future. That's why there's a big message about social security this spring, where it's signaled as an important topic. That is why we are also working on it in the 22nd July committee – as it has been called – here at Stortinget. The 22nd July Commission is working on the same issues, and it will produce its report for the autumn. For us, it's not a principle to be against a police study. On the contrary, it is very important to have a good professional basis, good analysis and a good long-term perspective on the basis of our decisions/discussions here on the Stortinget. But we believe that we are now at a stage where there is much more to how we should use knowledge, build up the analyses further, go more concretely to work on implementation than starting from the ground up with a police study at this point in time. Just to point out some processes: the whole of the work we are now involved with the police, started with the police role report from the previous government, in 2004-2005, with the subsequent recruitment strategy – the strategy I have mentioned, the police strategy towards 2020 – the escalation against two police officers per 1000 inhabitants, with operational analyses of several police districts that have been carried out in a very interesting and rewarding way, and also the performance reform, which is to come as a big message this autumn, which is based on these operational analyses, and which is about how we can make better use of resources, how we can create better measurement criteria, etc. – Question The Storting has discussed a lot. On the second question, the second main track, which I was in on, how we build social security, there have been two other big messages since 2002, and there is a new one now, in the spring. We have also started an important work in parallel with that, which has been in the mains messages, such as the implementation of the emergency network, which is probably allocated 1.5 billion. kr to this year to complete the Emergency Network process. We also mentioned the 22nd July committee here at Stortinget. We have here at Stortinget addressed a big message about organised crime, broad analysis of it, we have the action plan against economic crime, we have a cybercrime strategy, a data-crime strategy, we have action plans on rape, violence, violence in close relations, DNA reform, etc. So we're basically not against any police study, but we think we're now in a second phase, where it's about an implementation and a follow-up to everything we're agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1647	On 22 July and a number of natural disasters have actually shown why we should have had a police study before, and why the Right proposes it again. The Council of State itself has said that the police must learn from the Defense – yes, that is exactly what the police are doing; that is why the police themselves want a police study on the pattern of the Defence Study. We want from the right to have a comprehensive overview of what the police do, and what it takes for them to be able to handle all the tasks they have. The rightmost fear in the work both on July 22nd and the disasters we have seen is that we all end up saying that we want a strengthened preparedness, without knowing what it means in dollars and ears, and that the capacities we say we have on the paper are not real capacities. When the Police Union wants a police study, it's more than a clever union fight, but it's a struggle for us to have a police force that doesn't always meet with expectations from the audience and politicians they don't have nubjeschanse to deliver. The police study shall not be restricted. It must address the needs of both the Defense, the Home Office, the Civil Defense, etc. has, and needs to be seen together. Organisational structures, use of personnel and materials for optimal use of resources, warning and communication challenges, etc. is part of the preparedness build-up. A police study can show how the cooperation potential between the justice and defence sectors can be realised to the best of society. And yes, the Special Committee of the Storting after July 22 is working on parts of this, but the framework is the presentations that were made in the Stortingen last year, and the committee has no time or basis for doing what is needed. The fact that we from the Right again propose a police study along with a desire for a settlement on police resources is not to bother the government. There are, as Jan Bøhler pointed out, many reports and investigations that the government can refer to, but there is nothing in common. A police study is much more than the Police Directorate's manning study, which was soon out of date when it was being analysed and worked on a performance reform. The lack of an overall level is what makes us see that the ICT bet is at the expense of people's employment. The Storting has not got a case of its own, a proper numerical basis or plans to deal with it. There is one reason why the Emergency Network is also in deficit, because you don't have an overall plan in which it's integrated. Neither July 22 nor before, we had the police helicopter preparedness that Stortinget provided for, and the police coverage has gone down and not up. It doesn't help that we have the x number of different plans, when you can't coordinate these plans so you get a good result. We had a round in the questionnaire last week about police coverage, and it's possible to achieve a higher police coverage when we now have the numbers we have for the Police College. But it's on the assumption that you take the necessary steps not to get even more on arrears. In the past, the right has presented a plan to increase the number of police officers by 2 000 by 2016, based on the level in 2009. It is feasible, but requires clear political priorities. The police will in future not be able to build better preparedness, while at the same time having all their day-to-day tasks, without the Council of State agreeing to the invitation to settle the police resources sent by the Right for a while, and at the same time saying yes to a police study to point forward. Finally, I have some specific questions that we have asked sometimes, and which we hope the Council of State will be able to answer during the debate, with a slightly better reason than the representative of Bøhler's no to a police study. The question is whether the Council of State still rejects the invitation of the Right, which has come over a number of years, to a wide-ranging settlement on immediately increased resources to the police. The second is, when will 24-hour police helicopters be in place, as the Storting has foreseen? Then there's a question that was asked last week in the Question Time. It is: what is the concrete level of ambition and targets of police coverage for 2012, 2013, 2014, which shows that we are on the right track and not on the wrong track in terms of the figure that we are going to have in 2020? The last one: How has the Council of State actually intended to involve Stortinget in the external review of the PST's resource and manning situation? It was never the government that wanted an external review. It was something that was pushed forward in Stortinget because of the Storting's own information needs. These are four specific questions that I hope the Council of State can use some of its speaking time to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1670	The Christian People's Party supports the demand for a widely designed police study, and we believe that experience shows that a need for broader structured studies and analyses to further develop and strengthen the police for future challenges. I think the rapporteur, Mr Dahl, explained very well in his speech instead. For example, history shows that despite large words from the government, there have been fewer officials in visible order. It shows a lack of ability to follow up and implement the most unambiguous and clear signals from the Storting, for this is contrary to Storting's intentions with the police reform of a closer and more visible police force. The recent investigation by the National Audit Office into police action against profit crime is another example. The national audit is partly craved in its criticism of the efforts in this field, a field which Stortinget has repeatedly stressed that priority should be given. In the evaluation of the fight against organised crime, the Riksrevision was also Krass. Among other things, point out that there is a lack of a comprehensive and overall strategy for work. The governance dialogue with the police is deficient, and the government is criticised for the fact that there are no more good targets and results for police action in this area. The acute situation of the ICT police solution was also addressed. This is a critical point for the police to succeed in the fight against crime in general and organised crime in particular. At the same time as the work of the special committee and the follow-up after 22 July, we all believe that we can learn from what has happened, and look at what we can do in the future to make things even better. ‘Comprehensive preparedness’ and ‘long-term’ are key chords that are agreed upon. A comprehensive and broad police analysis can help prevent the clear priorities of the Storting from being followed up, and that the kind of down-priorities that it is not to upgrade the ICT system should not happen. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposalers' intention to strengthen police coverage. It is clearly necessary to strengthen the capacity of the agency to meet prevention challenges and the fight against crime. Today's situation in the police forces means that a person is making priorities that are based on people's sense of justice, such as: the repeated removal of cases with a known perpetrator or the down-priority of winning crime. To meet this, the Christian People's Party has prioritised major appropriations for the police's operating budget in every alternative budget we have presented under the red-green government. Today, Norway has the worst crew in Scandinavia, and police departments have warned that their economic situation requires cutting posts in the future. We clearly need a more offensive policy to strengthen recruitment, make sure that new graduates get into work, get more civilians into relieving roles and get the seniors into work. In particular, it is important to better facilitate active senior police policies by providing each police officer with better tools to keep up the most experienced workers for a few more years. So the Christian People's Party will support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1689	To the right, the proposal calls for the government to start work on a wide-ranging police study assessing the optimal use of society’s response resources collectively. The background to the proposal is the desire to invite Stortinget to gather on some key principles that must underpin the building of the response level in Oslo. I share the view that it is important to facilitate professional and principal discussions on the direction and ambition of a community area, as the Right wants through its proposal for a police study. In addition, it is important that the Storting should be invited to such discussions, both in order to make political divides visible and in order to reach political consensus in key areas. I believe that this government has done so over the last few years through its own announcements, both in terms of police and in terms of social security. The notification format may address the concerns of the Right in the proposal for a police study. Social security is highlighted in particular in the proposal for a representative. It's a priority I share in today's situation. The government is working on a comprehensive security policy and on strengthening social security. I agree with the proposers that there is a need to assess society’s response needs in a broad perspective where the need for different response actors is seen together. This is an important part of my coordination responsibility. A comprehensive approach to the needs of different response teams is an important reason why the government is now working on a Communication to the Biggest on Social Security. Here, as the proposers are also involved, we will carry out a broad review of the overall preparedness of society in different sectors and what work needs to be done to ensure that this is well coordinated. The notification is scheduled to be submitted shortly after the Minister of Defence has submitted a new long-term defence plan. There is a need to ensure that the cooperation potential between the justice and defence sectors can be realised in the best interests of society. In order to ensure that cooperation between defence and civil protection actors is as well organised and effective as possible, the Minister of Defence and I cooperate closely to provide the basis for even better defence assistance to civil authorities. In the autumn, the Government sends a notice to the Storting on the further development of the policing and member seats. The transmission of this Communication in the autumn of 2012 and not in the spring of 2012, as indicated in the proposal for a representative, relate to the fact that the 22nd July Commission has been given a deadline for August 2012 to make its presentation. A transmission to the autumn provides the government with the opportunity to assess the further development of the police and officers' seat in the light of assessments and recommendations made by the Commission. The notification is based on the performance reform and the understanding of the reform that continued efforts on the police cannot be based on increased resources alone, but must result from structural measures and renewal. The reform shall contribute to increasing the police force out of the resources available at all times. The measures included in the reform will be discussed in the Communication. The Communication will have a broad approach, and themes such as: management, local and central structures, organisation, technology and processes, competence development and competence management and learning will be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1711	The size has been unanimous in recent years in terms of a strong increase in the allocation to the police. It's happened. As a member of the Judicial Committee, I still ask a lot of questions about how these funds may have been used. When you travel around the police districts and talk to trusted people, etc., you wouldn’t think the police have been given such an increase. At the same time, we know that the police don't get to employ newly-trained police students, that they don't have a job for them, and police helicopters are standing on the ground in one of the biggest crisis situations ever. It's an ICT situation that's at rock age. Shouldn't this mean that you have to do a broad and thorough study?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1718	It is true that the police and prosecution authorities have received significant resources, more than actually 56 pst. since this government acceded. It's also true that the number of students at Police College has doubled. I believe, as the replicator, that there is reason to have a broad approach to the challenges that this department also has. There is some background for me to explain the messages that the government has on the stairs. It is through a good discussion of both social security and police performance reform, and also in the light of the long-term plan of defence, that we can have the challenges of the agency debated on a broad basis. Then, in my opinion, it becomes less important what the child's name is. I actually don't think a police study in itself would make this job much easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1726	The Council of State said in its statement that wholesale communications can take account of the concerns of the Right and the Stortinge. Then I'm going to give an example of where it doesn't work. In the context of the police mission, a unanimous increase in the number of people involved came to an end to some clear principles. Every day since the Stortinge adopted these principles, they have gradually built up the local police, they have formally not laid down a number of county offices, but they cut into tasks, so that they become empty shells. There are a lot of people who are concerned about, and it's a contradiction to what the Big One has foreseen, but it's happening in the hidden. So the questions are, what is the reason why the police themselves, perhaps apart from the police director, but almost all the police people you're talking to, the police organizations and others want a police study? Can the Council of State explain why the police are wrong when they want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1733	It should give the organisations a basic account of themselves. But I think it is interesting that previous defence studies, followed by long-term plans for the defence of the different governments up through time, show that most of the job related to both resource allocation and other challenges must be done by government itself. The representative, Octay Dahl, comes from the party that, in 2001, — herostatically — underfunded the long-term plan they themselves had contributed to. So here's no quick fix. I therefore believe that both the performance reform and the social security message provide us with a good basis, along with the long-term defence plan, to discuss the challenges facing the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1738	I also don't put any prestige in what the child's name is. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is saying that she will at least follow up much of the intentions of the proposal – even if it is voted down today. After all, that's all that matters. I want to go back to what the representative Octay Dahl was in his post, and we also had a round in the Questionnaire last week. It goes on the police coverage and what objectives the Council of State has for the coverage of the next few years. I would like to ask – because I expect that there are some goals set, or that at least some thoughts have been made – what the coverage will be in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1745	There is a report on the table that provides a coverage of two officials per 1000 inhabitants by 2020. The representative will also know that this has been followed by the government. That's something that will obviously have to be seen in the light of population growth. So – for me – tapping what police coverage we will have the coming years towards 2020 is not going to be right. There are numbers that you can do an analysis of and evaluate afterwards. But the goal must be to get where we've been planning for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1750	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1755	The annual debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice, which takes place in December of each year, is probably the most comprehensive debate on justice policy we have in this Chamber. These are good debates. I've been doing some searches on the justice debates for the last three years. So, from all parties, the concept of 'wholesal justice policy' is highlighted in these debates. That is precisely what is behind the Right proposal, that we should raise our eyes even further than the annual debate on justice, which only has a one-year perspective. We must give ourselves the opportunity – politically – to provide some criminal and judicial policy leaders, who also have values for both justice and criminal justice and all actors in the justice sector, that there are some basic driving rules and objectives for justice policy. That is what underlies the Right's proposal. In this way, we believe that we can create more security and less crime in society. So the annual budget debate is about money. It is constantly being referred away, including in this debate, to another important work that has been debated by the United Kingdom, and that is the police against 2020. It's about staff. Then we have different individual cases that deal in each of their ways with the devices, technology and equipment needs of the law, how we organise the justice sector and the police, how the justice sector and defence should cooperate, international coordination and education and competences in the justice sector – each of them important issues. But we have not adopted or debated in this Chamber a document, an overall strategy, which sews all these individual elements together, on the basis of a goal of more security and less crime. Unfortunately – I would say – this debate goes into the series where the Storting will obviously not accept the invitation of the Right to facilitate a long-term justice policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1766	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1780	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1789	Of all the topics we debate here in the Storting, sexual assault is one of the most serious and one of the worst things to talk about. The last Minister of Justice, Knut Storberget, used the word ‘nestendrap’ to refer to electoral articles. Unfortunately, this illustrates how to select a frame, because the event is not only cruel when it happens, but also, in the worst case, a life-long trauma that reduces the quality of life and destroys health. As spokesman for the case, I will first do something for the committee to which we refer in the proposal for a representative, Documents 8:12 S and Documents 8:14 S, which we are dealing with today. As both proposals relate to the same theme, the Committee decided to launch a joint debate on these two issues. There is a cross-political consensus that both assault and coup d'états in other sentences seriously violate the victim. Many of the four-yearly reports of rape polls focus on a major societal debate on what can be their cause, and on how to best prevent stipends. In the Committee's comments, we stress that all types of electoral instruments are serious, but point to the fact that assault suits have as an extra consequence that they make many women and their closest rescues. This fear can cause a person to no longer dare to behave and move in places where someone else feels safe. This makes women less free in a society where equality and freedom for individuals are values we see high. The Committee notes that we will continue to give priority to selective measures. That's a good starting point. However, there is no consensus in the Committee on what measures should be taken. When the red-green plural does not want to vote for the proposals from the Right and the Progress Party, it is partly because the government has already seen actions that are in practice very close to what is in the proposals, and partly because we are inconsistent in principle. Of these, one example is presented by the Progress Party to increase the level of punishment for electoral and sexual abuse. Recently, criminal law was revised, and the Stortinget increased the penalty for these crimes. A joint committee points out that the courts have been given clear and reasoned leadership from the Storting that the normal levels of punishment for electoral and sexual abuse must be higher than those that have been in practice for many years. This is because courts have the possibility and should use the upper levels of the criminal framework more often. As an example of a proposal where the government party is not some of the contributors for fundamental reasons, it is about DNA-registering asylum seekers and creating closed receptions. Finally, in my opinion, it is particularly important for a society to be protected against electoral agents, and this means keeping convicted asylum seekers away from the streets without any delay, pending their release. But this is not to have closed the receipt for anyone who has not yet received an answer to their application, or who is currently not able to be sent out. However, it is worth noting that it seems that an overwhelming majority of convicts have a non-Western background. I think that the measures we have to take in order to overcome the attacks must be targeted in order to prevent men coming from some cultures from making such a mistake. That's how it's interesting to see Stavanger, where one of us is to be able to bend a waltz wave in 2009 and so on. to cooperate with the police, the reception centre and migrant organisations in order to communicate current Norwegian attitudes to women and gender equality. It is particularly important that the Storing and the Government continue and intensify their work against electoral regimes. A cross-political consensus that the problem is serious and that something needs to be done about is a good starting point. Finally, I would like to remind you that more police and more severe punishments are not enough alone. Cooperation between many actors is essential. The four-year election marches created a debate and a remark on the problem that hopefully leads to a number of moves forward in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1812	Rape is a very serious crime. It is infringing human dignity on the most serious, it causes the victim great suffering, and it spreads fear and insecurity. Rape is one of the most traumatic assaults a human being can face, and we have to do everything we can to make girls and women feel safe. The question of how to prevent new abuses is crucial. Strengthening police and awareness-raising activities are essential in prevention. The government has been working for a long time to combat rape, and we have achieved a lot. It is good that the opposition promotes proposals to combat this, and that we get debates in Stortingen about it even when media floodlights are no longer as strong on the subject as before Christmas. It is commendable that the Minister of Justice is considering setting up an inter-ministerial working group with a mandate to establish an action plan against rape, on the basis of the remaining challenges of the RAC investigation from word to action. The proposers in Document 8:12 S claim that the Parliamentary Committee's proposal 'has been followed up only to a minor and very varying extent'. This isn't right. One of the main suggestions in the selection setting is to create a central unit against sexualised violence. This has been followed by the government setting up a rape group at Kripos to work against sexualised violence. The government's aim is to recruit 16 jobs here during this year. The rape group shall contribute to increased quality, reduced treatment time and faster resolution. The DNA reform launched on 1 September 2008 is an important tool for the resolution of crime, as it will make research work more effective. The police cannot do the work of combating rape alone. It is important to further develop and coordinate a broad, comprehensive effort between the police, the municipality and the public, private and voluntary sectors. This is about a number of measures, such as lighting, creating safe urban spaces – by everyone taking responsibility. There is reason to believe that several people report rapes, and in order to increase the frequency of reporting, one must ensure that the person who comes to the police meets with empathy and professionalism. The system of family violence coordinators is the cornerstone of police work. From 2008, all police districts are assigned a minimum standard family violence coordinator to be a 100 pst. include, in addition, sexual assault. In Document 8:14 S, the progressing party women are in charge of an uprising against the violent wave. I want to say that with Lars Saabye Christensen's words, "Where has it been of all the guys?" In December, High Representative Michael Tetzschner put the topic on the agenda of the Stortinget through an interpellation. There were many good speeches then, and the SV's representative in the family and cultural committee, Gina Knutson Barstad, said something wise: «Many have referred to the rapes in the autumn as a wave, including myself. I suggest we end with this right here and now. When something happens constantly, it's not a wave, it's a chronic state." Preventing assault violence must be our main focus. Among other things, it is about punishing assaults more severely, proving better, clarifying more and giving help and follow-up to the victims. We have increased the penalties, the DNA reform has been implemented, and several thousand police officers have been trained in evidence protection. A separate investigation team has been established at Kripos, and rape facilities have been established across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1839	The number of rapes has increased sharply in the last year – no doubt – not only in Oslo, but also in other major cities. During the last year there have been reports that the police in Oslo, the police in Trondheim, etc. has dropped out hundreds of things dealing with sexual assault. There have been torch trains, and there have been celebrations, but all this does not prevent assault violence. We need action, and we need concrete action. But at least something has changed, because what we saw before Christmas, has flattened out a little bit. We see that the police are more present, and we see that the cases of rape have been given a higher priority. When we were in Rogaland and got in-depth information about what worked and did not work in Stavanger, we saw that there were many different actions that were started. Furthermore, we have seen that the rape committee, under the direction of Rita Sletner, who submitted its report back in 2008, pointed to a number of good proposals that could have helped to reduce the number of rape attacks. Unfortunately, we see that not many of these proposals have been launched, but there has been a positive change since last time – since we debated the interpellation of Tetzschner, something has happened, and that is good. DNA is an important source of evidence in rape cases. Police officials often talk about the importance of working on investigation while the evidence is still ‘precautionary’. This applies in particular to biological tracks. The Judicial Committee has discussed several times the issue of the monopoly that RMI has and the problems it poses with long waiting and lengthy processing. In the absence of custody sites, we see that potential perpetrators are released pending a response to DNA analysis, thus giving a chance to either run off or commit new rapes. However, when 2011 statistics show that only DNA could be used in approx. five cases out of the 59 registered also give cause for concern. Why is the number so low? To be fair, at least we get a response from the police that in Norway it is such that we register attempts at rape as rape. This may also explain the difference between Denmark and Norway in this area in terms of figures. But we can't explain what's happening -- it might also mean that the importance of securing DNA needs to be higher in the priorities. We need nuanced information about who commits these rapes, and we need information about why. One suggestion is that we put our prejudices aside and analyze exactly what we think we know: Nearly no ethnic Northmen carry out assaults. A few people are behind many assaults. They are non-Western, but not necessarily asylum seekers or have illegal residence. These persons often have a non-Western background with a residence permit in Norway. Victims are alone; some areas of cities are more vulnerable than others. Last year there were almost 60 registered rapes in Oslo. The police have taken seven suspected perpetrators, all of whom have a non-Western background. This coincides with previous statistics: there are almost exclusively people with a non-Western background behind them. The Stavanger police used untraditional methods to combat the rapes. They printed their own information brochures in different languages about Norwegian culture and Norwegian rules, which were distributed in places where many with a foreign background travel. They contacted imams to establish dialogue on actions and the need for information to the Friday-bean environment. They pressed up flyers with information and announcement of the perpetrator in several languages, and distributed them to restaurants and discotheque environments. The launch of their own course in the direction of the introduction programme with a greater focus on Norwegian conditions and women's rights. And the results speak for themselves – from well over 20 rapes down to zero in a short time. It's important that we distinguish between rape and rape with a known perpetrator. There are different instruments to be used, but these two representative proposals address the scope of what needs to be done. We're going to have an interpellation afterwards about violence in close relationships, which goes a little bit further into that kind of rape. But the negative attitude you have toward women is at the bottom of all these things. I'm taking up the suggestions that we have alone, and the ones that we're dealing with right-hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1873	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1876	Let me first, on behalf of the Right, congratulate the proposers behind these two proposals for representatives, for rape is a cruel crime. According to estimates from the RAC, between 8 000 and 16 000 people are raped or attempted rape every year. Rape is perpetrated in pairs, at private parties, at after-plays, in pirate taxis and on the street. In many cases, there is a relationship between offenders and victims. Therefore, in the debate on rape, prevention measures must have a central place. Rape is solely the responsibility of the perpetrator. Most rapes are committed by men. In my opinion, therefore, it is a responsibility for all men to contribute to the good attitudes of other men. This applies regardless of cultural, religious or ethnic background. Everyone has the right to feel safe in their own community. Society must support vulnerable people with targeted assistance. Intervention recipients and crisis centres are important contributions to helping victims in a difficult time. In many cases, the design of the rape recipients, the attitudes of the police and the courts, the sense of being taken seriously and the right to an aid lawyer are essential to minimise the burden on offenders after an offence. For a long time, the right has considered that the level of penalties for abuse has been too low. We were therefore in favour when the government proposed a higher level of punishment in the new penal code. Similarly, it was with disappointment that we registered that shortly after the adoption of the new penal code, the new level of penalties was not taken into account, as a total increase did, and that was also taken into account by the Law Department in the proposition. Therefore, it was proposed to amend the criminal law of the day by a short time from the right. The government followed up shortly after, and a total collapse was behind enough an increase in the penalty level. This shows that the government can act quickly when it really wants to. We also notice the large number of people writing in the setting. This shows that the red-green majority is satisfied that biological trace analysis is not to be done by commercial operators. I would like to stress that the Right is not satisfied that in this way we do not use all the means we can to combat rape and facilitate effective investigation, as both the police lawyers and the Bar Association stressed in the hearing the Judicial Committee had in this matter. Also, a research report from the University of Bergen, dated 15 June 2011 — a research report commissioned by the Ministry of Justice — suggests that today’s model of DNA analysis has weaknesses and problems associated with it, making it difficult for the Right to understand that, in this way, the majority can express satisfaction with that particular situation. Then to the proposals submitted: For the right, it is important that all good instruments are assessed and put into service. It is therefore a good proposal that has been promoted from the Left. It is important for the government to follow up the rape committee's proposal in an appropriate and good way. A number of different proposals have been made by the representative of the Progress Party. Among other things, the need for increased resources in the police, the use of DNA in the criminal chain and the level of penalties are affected. Violence must be combated on a broad front. This is a good example of the proposals of the Progress Party. In the past, we have also co-existed with the Progress Party on a number of measures that are suitable to prevent and improve the investigation of rapes, while at the same time making proposals that we believe will get more offenders convicted. On the right, many of the proposals of the Progress Party will be supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1897	Rape is one of the worst things that a human being can be exposed to. Many people lose quality of life. Abuse has both psychological and physical consequences. You lose concentration, you get shame and guilt, you get a bad self-esteem and lose the desire for work and education. So, the whole basis of life can simply be scratched. It is therefore important that work and the fight against rape continue. They must be prevented, they must be investigated, they must be punished and they must be repaired. It's no less than that! This work should be carried out at many levels. First of all, it is about attitudes. But it's mostly men who rape, and then it's important that we men talk about it. We can't take responsibility for other men's black deeds, but we can be part of the solution. I've had conversations with my sons about what rape means, how they're going on, how to avert them, and how to support victims if they get into such a situation. This conversation needs more people to make. It was interesting that Anna Ljunggren was within the proposal promoted by the Progress Party – praiseworthy that a good number of women from the Progress Party are promoting it. But here too, the party of progress is gone. They are largely absent from the debate on rape. They have to get on the track, not least here. Then work will be done to strengthen the health care system to ensure tracks when rape has first occurred. We need to help women in a physically demanding phase, and not least in a psychologically demanding phase. Repair after rape is enormously important. Many measures have been proposed, many are in progress, and many more will be launched in the future. Representatives of government parties have gone through a good deal of them. I don't want to repeat them. It is interesting, however, that a debate on rape is turned into an asylum-seeking debate. I registered that the representative Åse Michaelsen was very brief within that rape is a broad theme. There are up to 15 000 rapes committed in Norway, and the proposals are limited to the rapes committed by asylum seekers. They are absolutely serious, they have to be taken seriously, they have to be prevented, they have to be investigated and punished, but they are not just the ones we have to spend time on. If women are the point here, if women are the thing here, we have to look at the whole thing. But I do not understand what kind of human vision is behind extending ‘registration and control upon arrival of asylum seekers so that the registration also includes DNA profiles to which the police can access’, as proposed by the Progress Party. That means all asylum seekers. That means men, women, children, the elderly, the sick — everyone should be registered because some of them commit rape. What about other men in Norway — a few million men? Some of them commit rape. Should we all be registered? Should I register? Should the representative Ropstad also be registered? Why don't you do that, because we can commit rape? What kind of human vision is behind this kind of proposal? It is also proposed that: ‘The government asks the Government to open the door to place asylum seekers in closed reception.’ All asylum seekers – women, children! It says, and it doesn't help to shake your head. I read the word ‘place asylum seekers in closed reception’. That means everyone – men, women, children, sick – all – because some of them commit criminal acts. But so do others – four, five million Nordics. Some of them commit criminal acts. If the same human vision is to be taken into account, we all have to be caged. This is a human vision from which SV takes a great distance. We are willing to discuss all positive and serious measures against rape, both to prevent, investigate, punish and repair rape. But we're not into this kind of human vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1919	We have all been affected by the many rapes and attempted rapes that occurred last year in Norway and in particular in Oslo. Now the media storm has gone down, but there are still too many who are subjected to brutal abuse and have their lives turned down and be embossed for life. Rape is a near-drap and is among the most serious abuses that anyone can be subjected to. The damage can be both physical and mental, and we know that rape victims often have long-lasting aftereffects. The many abuses that have occurred in, among others: Our capital, has created great fear in the entire population. We hear of women who do not dare to go alone in the city anymore, and others tell of increased suspicion and scepticism in meeting strangers. This is bad! We cannot accept that a small minority in this way sets limits to life's expansion and freedom. Assaults are frightening, and although we have been able to focus on assaults, rapes committed at parties, at home or in other contexts — often by a known perpetrator — constitute the largest number. It has been estimated that 8 000 to 16 000 rapes are committed in Norway each year. A few of these are reported, and a few end up with them. Throughout last year, 55 rapes were reported in Oslo. Only eight perpetrators have been taken and identified. All eight have non-ethnic Norwegian backgrounds. Outside the capital, 63 assaults had been reported until 13 November last year, and only two suspected perpetrators were taken. As of 31 December 2011, 21 of the 55 cases notified in Oslo were settled. In two of the cases, an appeal has been filed, while 18 of them have been dismissed. One case has been sent to another police district, and the other cases are still under investigation. We can't live with the fact that there's a small percentage of those who are reported for rape, who are judged. This is a legal security problem, and it is a major challenge for the public to trust the police and the judiciary. The strict requirements of the criminal justice system for evidence make it essential in the case of rape to ensure technical traceability. Rapid questioning of possible witnesses is also very important to ensure that significant details are not forgotten. That's why DNA analyses are very important. This is clearly a public task that requires strict regulation and supervision, but it does not necessarily mean a public monopoly. The Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening the competence and capacity of the public forensic environment. It's a question we've raised in this room on several occasions. However, in a situation where there is a clear need for increased capacity, it will be in the interests of society to drop private environments after tenders and competition and with the necessary public governance and supervision. We know that the rapid arrest of perpetrators in rape cases is deterrent, and that is why society must make every effort to do so. Around the country, dozens of police posts are kept awake to balance annual budgets. This means that the population is getting a less accessible and present police force. We also know that a strenuous resource situation can lead to the imposition of criminal proceedings that are resource-intensive to lead to a conviction before all possible investigations have been carried out. There are many interventions that need to be taken, but in any case, in addition to what I have mentioned, prevention will always be the important thing. It is a question of changing attitudes and preventing rape. I therefore agree with the Left that it is important to follow up the measures of the NOU with the paradoxical name ‘From word to action’. The challenges of rape are many, and it is impossible to address everyone thoroughly in a brief article. But in conclusion, I would like to remind you that rape victims do not just tell you about difficult experiences in meeting with the police and courts. It's e.g. also challenging for many to receive rapid follow-up and assistance from health care in the post-trafficking period. I would like to encourage all good forces in society – in politics, in organisational and community life, in school and in the media – to work in a spirit-creating, concrete and focused way, so that we can get back to safety at night. Christian People's Party supports the proposals No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1947	Rape is the most offensive action we can imagine. Rape is cruel, and it is so great that it concerns us all in our society. Assaults have a special impact on society because they concern our movement in public space. They make us more afraid, but they also affect our view of public space. For me who is an adult lady, living on the east edge of Oslo, the fear of walking in the streets is not the great. But I live in an area where, just a few meters from my bedroom window, some of the worst assaults in Oslo have been committed. That means that every time you wake up at night when someone screams, you think, "Is it now you're going to help someone out?" That's why this affects the whole view of how you experience public space, it affects how you experience your city, and it affects people's security. Suffering if you don't consider yourself a potential victim, you see yourself as a citizen who wants to be present for people. That's why assaults have a different effect – in addition to human – and that's why it's also very dangerous, what's happening from the Stockholm pulpit right now, that's that you define rapes are committed only by someone. It is true that some of those convicted of assault violence – which is a very, very small part – have a migrant background. But if anyone had cared to call the investigators in this section and ask them how the rape victims describe the attacker – I talked to those who have analyzed the last 20 assaults in Oslo – they have one similarity feature: they know nothing about the attacker. They know nothing about skin color, they know nothing about hair color, they know nothing about clothing and suits. They don't know anything, because they never saw anything. Still, we from the Great Council confirmed what he looked like. We have to be careful about that, because that means that we don't fit the right guys in town, and that means that it can inhibit investigation, inhibit thinking, and inhibit us from taking these men out of the street. For rape and rape are much more complex than that. That's why you have to have a lot of variation in instruments to achieve what we're going to do. We did it in Oslo before Christmas. When the police really got in the harness, when the Oslo people really got in the harness and everybody decided that we shouldn't have it in our city, we did it. Then the numbers went down, it worked. But we have to use all the tools, all the time, to get to it. We have to have experts in the police who can do just this, we need doctors who can do just this, because there's something completely different to getting a girl who just needs medical attention, and one who needs proof. That's a pretty different problem. A normal doctor is not trained for it, a common doctor is trained to take care of the girl, so that she will not get long-term damage. Taking evidence into a criminal case is something quite different. It requires a special competence, and that competence must be there. All health care related to this must be free of charge. No one has to go and think about whether you can afford to pay for the excess when you need psychological help or medical care. Therefore, the left vote in favour of proposal No. 1, which was our original. We are also voting in favour of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's completely incomprehensible for us not to let everyone contribute to gathering evidence in this round – it's about DNA. Then I understand a bit of the frustration of the SV's representative, but I also think they can take it internally in his government, because the representative Klinge sounds like a real watch-centre party when she says that convictions should be withheld. Penalties must be in prison and punish the punishment for what he has actually done. One shall not make any own fence for them. If you have done a criminal act, you shall be put in prison to zone for that action. I consider that to be common practice in this country. Trying to use it as a ‘reverse formula’ to take advantage of advance pickers, I don't think I'm fine, even in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1960	Rape is a very serious crime. It is infringing human dignity on the most serious, it causes the victim great suffering, and it spreads fear and insecurity. There is no doubt that the government and the committee agree. I also agree that it is important to have raped on the official agenda, and often bring it up for debate in order to bring this serious problem to life. I am pleased that the Committee points out that the government has largely followed up the proposals of the rape committee in NOU 2008:4, as shown in the status statement we have also drawn up, which was posted on the government's website last December. In particular, I would like to refer to the establishment of the Kripos rape team, which has become an important national professional community for the sharing of information and competences in the field of rape, and which contributes to increased quality and speedy information in police districts. I would also like to highlight the fact that we have established a number of abuses across the country, and that family violence coordinators in the police districts are to help rape victims who come to the police, meet with empathy and professionalism. I share the Committee's concern about the high number of rapes. In Oslo, there was overall an increase in registered reports of rape and attempted rape from 196 in 2010 to 256 in 2011. That's an increase of 30 pst. We don't know if this is because the numbers of darkness are getting smaller by more people choosing to report rape. As mentioned above, a national scope study is now being conducted by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress. We need to know more. This study could give us important knowledge. I am also pleased to tell you that the Oslo Police Commissioner has decided that an investigation similar to that carried out after the rape reports in 2010 will also be carried out in view of the notifications registered in 2011. This report will be comparable to the previous year also with regard to the situation in which the rape has occurred. It implies, inter alia, that: will respond to the increase in the number of registered seizures. I have been informed that it is also aimed at elucidating the impact of media exposure on the notification of various types of rape. The report is expected to be completed during the first six months of this year. Although the government has widened its efforts through prevention, better clarification, as well as assistance and follow-up to victims of rape, the figures show that more challenges remain. The challenges include the responsibilities of several departments. Therefore, on 15 December last year, the government decided to draw up a separate action plan against rape. Through an action plan, we can ensure coherence and coherence in work and strengthen the overall efforts of the government in this important area. The action plan shall be drawn up jointly by the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Justice. The work is managed by the Ministry of Justice. For me, as Minister of Justice, it will be a high priority area to continue and strengthen efforts to prevent and combat rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1977	It is mentioned by many in the debate today that one of the strong instruments is coordination, which is best prevented by the cooperation of all actors in the urban scene – both public, private and voluntary. The committee is in complete agreement on this, and I have heard that the Council of State has also said earlier. So my question when it comes to getting all the actors involved involved involved involved in prevention – maybe also involved in resolving issues and making research easier: what does the government do to involve other actors – municipalities, municipal institutions – in this community to prevent and combat assault violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1984	A number of things are being done to ensure good cross-border and multidisciplinary interaction. Now the question ended with just a reference to the rapes. I think it's important to see this in context. We need good knowledge of what is happening and, of course, good competence to be able to prevent, investigate and correct abuses. The police council is at the heart of this. Experience transfer is central. When I hear the police chief in Oslo talking about the value of the cooperation with the municipality in the police council, this is important. There is also a plan to develop a separate municipal counsellor to ensure close and professionally qualified interaction at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1989	It is right that we should fight all kinds of rapes, but in this case it is about rapes, i.e. rapes that happen in public space. It is then clear that it is important to have an interaction between those who are actually responsible for infrastructure, for example. It concerns our green lungs and control of it, lighting, etc., where there may be overlapping responsibilities also in relation to the state, the municipality and the county, and where it may be the resources, i.e. the appropriations, which will be the crucial question as to whether to take preventive measures, in order to get public space as safe as possible. It is more in the direction where I challenge the Council of State – whether the government has any coordination measures to put in place the responsibility for appropriations, so it should not be on that level in terms of infrastructure and public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e1994	When I don't want to let go of other types of rape, it's all about the fact that the rapes make up a smaller proportion of the total number of rapes. But equally, the effort to combat rape is very important and cooperation with municipal authorities is also central. There is a great deal of work to be done to systematize the knowledge of the Oslo police district. Both through the efforts of Kripos, in its own unit, and in the Oslo police district, there is a systematic work that we both saw in effect before Christmas, and which we still have to follow closely and evaluate to see how we can apply this knowledge in the future. Stavanger made a strong effort. It was the police, it was municipal authorities, volunteers, the taxi industry – everyone went together to deal with what was a big problem there in 2009. I think we'll see a lot of this kind of action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2001	As the Council of State certainly both hears and understands, it is easy to gather broad consensus here in the Chamber on the importance of measures to combat both rape and rape in general. There is every reason to give homage and commendation to the many police and other staff involved in both research and support for vulnerable women and men. But there's no reason to be satisfied anyway. We always have to be impatient to find the best solutions. Therefore, the Right reacts when it is stated in a majority comment on the matter that it is satisfied that biological trace analysis is not to be done by commercial operators. We can hardly interpret it any other way than that this is an expression of a dogmatic approach to an important question that deprives us of the opportunity to get to the bottom of all matters. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State deal with the research report that the Ministry itself initiated and ordered from the University of Bergen, which came in June 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2010	I am pleased with the support given to the government for the activity done to combat rape and serious crime. Then we have had the opportunity to discuss the analysis model that Norway is using, several times in this room. We have a model that works. We have a model that is equal to the model in a lot of our neighboring countries. We have also helped to develop the system we have in a good way, for example. by providing a better capacity. So very much goes on: why introduce another model that we don't know about works as well? The cooperation we have with established organisations works well. We know each other, and they know how to use this material. There are no dogmatic reasons on which the model is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2017	Let's keep going. My line really goes on that bit that there are a lot of rapes that you know happen, but that never get announced, they never get reported. It's big numbers of darkness. The positive thing – if you can talk like this to the increased number of rapes – is hopefully that several of those who previously chose not to report, now dare to do so and want to do so. That's good. At the same time, it is important that those who choose to report experience that they are being taken seriously, and that, in as many cases as possible, if a rape has been committed, it ends with judgment. Does it not worry the Council of State that there is such a high number of abuses that are not reported, and that so many of them do not end up with judgment? I would like to hear a little about the Council's thoughts and plans and visions in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2024	I welcome the attention given to this area by the representative of Ropstad. It worries me that we have a larger number of provisions. I think it's interesting to see that we have a strong increase in the number of reviews. I think we're getting more darkness in the light. Then, of course, we need to know how to provide the victims in a good way, also in order to ensure that they are corrected through good investigations. We're going to have an interpellation in this room later today. Among other things, the various measures we are taking to build competences in the justice sector, and interdisciplinaryly with health services and other agencies, I believe that important contributions are made to ensuring good development in this field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2031	In response to the representative, Werp, the Council of State was very pleased with the chosen model. However, the report referred to by the representative Werp concluded that there was a need for «second opinion». That means the model is not good enough. It will clearly weaken legal certainty. The government itself, a unanimous mass, wants a second opinion environment. For this year's budget, the government has chosen not to give money to the second opinion environment that the whole Stortinget wants, that is, that of Tromsø. Then the question is, When has the government finally planned – after six years – to put in place a second opinion environment that it wants and in which this report actually supports the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2036	It is essential to ensure good treatment of the analytical material and also to ensure that the analyses are carried out as quickly as possible. There has been a great deal of attention in both government and growth, and good results have been achieved. Then there has also been a discussion, to which the representative points, relating whether or not there is a need for a second opinion of the samples taken. It's an important discussion. There is also a discussion where it is not excluded that you can choose a different model from the one you have today. As far as the priorities have been concerned, it has been ensured that there is a basic good capacity and quality in terms of the analyses carried out. Then it is true that there has been a discussion of a possible bet on an environment in Tromsø, and the representative has also been concerned about an environment in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2046	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2049	We would have preferred to avoid standing here in this hall and talking about electoral law. We should have such a secure society that we could go out in peace and calm and get rid of such abuses. Before I start the debate myself, I just want to say to the representative from SV who called for men from the Progress Party in the debate: The people of the Progress Party fully support the proposal, and that is very good and very good for me. Another thing: I'm probably looking for my co-sisters in SV. Where are they in this debate? Elections or other sexual abuses involve being forced or pressured into sexual acts against your own will. A victim of molestation can be a man or a woman, an adult or a child. Too many picks become heavy everyday. They are marked for life. Someone is able to work with the experience, others are unable to work with it. For some, it has been so difficult to live with sexual abuse that taking one's own life has been the only way out. I can't find myself in that. We live in a country where freedom and security are highly valued. We belong to a society where we should be able to move freely, without having to be anxious or afraid to go alone, or knowing that being a woman gives someone a chance to deprive us of our emotional life and freedom of movement. I expect that as politicians in this room we can be together to do something about it. Election frames not only us women, but also men and children. A few days ago, we were able to read in the news about a 14-year-old Swedish girl who had been contacted by a grown man via the chat to the online game Wordfeud. The man initiated a sexual relationship with the girl, and is now charged with selection. This game is a word game to be played in all age groups, including myself. This is a game that should be safe to play as well for children. I – as the mother of four and grandmother of five – know that it is also time that resources were deployed to protect children and young people through the Internet and the social media. Netvett should also be on the agenda with the police. Despite the fact that they have reduced a selection and created action plans on the topic, it is a major problem that children and young people are being abused and abused through Internet and social media contacts. I mean, this is a phenomenon that's going to spread even more. While at this moment we are debating the importance of prioritizing resources to the police in order to make our society safer, it's actually an attacker out there waiting for its next victim. I think it is necessary to increase the skills, efforts and efforts to prevent, prevent and combat abuse on the Internet in general and in the social media. Last year there were 463 messages about sexual activity with children under the age of 16. This is an increase of 21.6 pst. from the previous year. This is serious. We have to do something – and immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2066	What the Council of State said a short time ago is alarming. What the Council of State said was that it has been discussed whether to establish analytical environments in Tromsø. Now I would like to ask for a clarification as to whether the government has now intended not to establish an alternative environment in Tromsø, as the Stortinget has previously decided – with the support of the government parties. Yeah, or no? The representative, Skei Grande, was in the middle of something: one thing is those who are actually exposed to an assault violence, another is what everyone else feels, the security of the city, that there is a negative effect that we have to look at. However, one thing that is important, as the Council of State itself had in mind, is that in parts of the public debate we have, there is so much focus on assault violence that it actually makes some of those who are exposed to the ‘ordinary rapes’ – a terrible expression to use – suddenly not considered ‘real’ rape victims. If you are exposed to an assault, it is very serious, while those who are exposed to a ‘sleep violence’ have to explain why they were exposed to it, whether they were too full and had too short a skirt and all that. Leading lawyers are now discussing how problematic it is with the law that Stortinget has unanimously passed on the minimum punishment, and then I think it is time that we also discuss what ‘sleep violence,’ after-spel violence, is doing to people. I think a good part of the lawyers, and other people, could take a tour of the conversation groups at a part of the rape recipients, and then they would quite quickly see that it's not about whether you've been subjected to an assault or an after-game rape -- it's about what happens to the victims, inside them, after they've experienced a rape, which is the worst thing anyone can experience, no matter how it happens. It's the most individual reactions. The representative, Skei Grande, said we shouldn't have a debate about what you look like. That's what you see on some of the pedophiles that are revealed. It's not necessarily just blackmailed, less fortunate-looking men who do this. There are quite a few others, too, but the prejudices of society make it perhaps easier to believe that they are the pedophiles, or the rapists. There are a lot of different skin colors, different clothes, different ways of being, which are rape offenders. It could be anyone. But we don't have to go into the trap that we get so concerned about stressing that it can be everyone, that we don't also look at the statistics and see that there is a higher incidence among some with a different ethnic and cultural background. There may be many reasons for this – social differences, mental challenges, etc. – but we also need to take those debates, so that we do not sit and beat each other in the head with the appearance, colour or other characteristics of the rape offenders. But at the end of the day, I must simply ask the Council of State to clarify: What is the position of the Council of State – and of the Government – towards the establishment of an alternative environment in Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2083	I thought the representative André Oktay Dahl had a very good post, where he makes special mention of what I said at the end, about this, about the connection between ethnicity and the assault laws, that one should actually be able to look at the statistics. This doesn't mean that one minimizes other types of selection. Nor does it mean that one realizes that anyone can actually be the electorate, that Norwegian men in fact are overweight among those who chose here to land. It is good that this theme engages so many people, and it is also good that the representative Trine Skei Grande is busy with the theme. But I don't think it's very promising that the Left Leader totally overlooks the connection between ethnicity and the phenomenon of assault warrants. Hanne Kristin Rhode, head of the violence and morality department at the Oslo Police Department, has on many occasions underlined that everything suggests that the overwhelming majority of the attackers are non-Western and from some cultures. The left may, of course, choose to keep going with skyscrapers to let go of this fact, and it certainly calms them down, but it does not calm down all those who see that targeted action must be based on knowledge. Skeei Grande said that it's not nice of me to point out this context, and that I seem to be trying to make progress party voters by identifying the need to protect women from sentencing asylum seekers who do not have the right to stay. I want to make it clear that it was the group I'm talking about. I think this is a serious claim, and I want to refer to a case with an Ethiopian who came out of prison after having a sentence for a very rough and selective assault warrant. He was to leave the country, but because of the trial period – and I also believe that there was a danger to his own life if he was sent out – it was not ready for dispatch. Shortly after the release, he released a woman who had to enter her apartment, chose her and cut her up with a knife and ruined her health for the rest of her life. I don't think that's okay. It is obvious that we must protect society against all types of electorate and give them good treatment, or rehabilitation in prison, etc. But the threshold for making new, serious assault warrants is, in my opinion, much lower for men who know that they should still be sent out of the country and who can as well be in prison as walking around the street – precisely because they know that they are not being sent out. It is also a paradox that they are not sent out because there is a danger to their own lives, but that they can take advantage of the time pending rejection of destroying others' lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2094	Many people have argued that rape is a cruel act, and that it is unacceptable, whether it is rape or rape committed by someone you know or know. We have to hold on, all of us, to what others have said, that we have to fight this widely. We clearly see that, on the one hand, we must have these preventive measures, and, on the other hand, the measures of action – that is, what we do when a rape is a fact. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice told me in his speech that one should invest even more in getting more knowledge and looking at the need for competence. We cannot take action without knowing that this will work. It was very positive to see the mobilization that was in Oslo when the rapes were at the worst, before Christmas and after the summer. Obviously, there's a lot that works. It was also mentioned by the Council of State on a separate action plan. I'm looking forward to it coming, and it's going to be based on knowledge. So a little bit to this as it's been about, there's a lot of people with a non-Western background who commit assaults. It is possible that these are overrepresented, as several have been involved, at least in Oslo and Stavanger. I agree with the representative, Klinge, that we can't wear sky posters. If there is a clear context there, we must, of course, take targeted action against this group. But it's important that we have the whole picture with us when we talk about rapists. In the rape statistics, we find that the vast majority of those who rape are white men, and often some who know the victim. I think that in this debate, which has been good, there has been too little focus on attitude-creating work. It's the most important thing to prevent rape. There was a debate here earlier, an interpellant debate. Then we were in the ‘sexual school’ class, and I allow it to come up again. It was launched by a chronicler in Dagbladet. The proposal was that sex education at school should be more than reproductive, prevention and gender diseases. Education must be about sexual morality, what is acceptable behavior, and about the fact that a no is a no. This is education that I think we have to promise and take seriously, if we really mean something about preventing rape, regardless of whether it's rape or rape committed by someone you know.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2105	This has been a debate in which all those who have spoken have agreed on one thing: that assaults, or rapes, are one of the most cruel things to be exposed to. Our former Minister of Justice called it a near-drap, and I join it. But we get some challenges. I record that we are going to have a variety of actions, and we are all going to seek cooperation to go as wide as possible to prevent and combat them. But when something designates itself as simple and quick action that we know can work tomorrow, there is no reason for it to go into an action plan that will end in this house in one or two years. Then we must act immediately. We know of many such measures that we can do something about quickly, including: some of the proposals that are on the table here today. Cooperation – many have referred to Stavanger, where they cooperated with an asylum recipient. Yeah, so it's not that simple in Oslo, or Trondheim or Bergen. In Oslo, perhaps 10,000 people are believed to be illegal. Today, I have commented on a matter from Kongsberg that one misses a dozen asylum seekers from an asylum reception. Where are these? There is no point in cooperating with the asylum-seeker at Kongsberg, because some asylum-seekers have disappeared from there. It's not that simple. I can't get up above the representative Chaudhry or anyone who gets so upset about these proposals with the closed reception and use of DNA. It happens anyway, it will have to force itself forward anyway, with the open borders we have, and the uncontrolled influx of asylum we have. When people come and take advantage of the asylum institution in this way, they should have reactions. It is a proposal that lies here on the table about it, but no one wants it either. Human vision is about taking these terrible rapes seriously and proposing measures that we believe prevent one case – one offense, one rape. Then I'm willing to suggest it most. That's what this is about; the human vision you have in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2114	I see that the Council of State has not yet signed up to answer a very specific question. It's actually one concrete question, and it's the establishment of Tromsø. In fact, even if you have a majority government, I expect you to answer questions that are asked in this room. The government and a unanimous growth want a second opinion environment to ensure better legal certainty. It has been one of the most important debates throughout the previous ageing period until the Governmental Council of Storberget left. The establishment of Tromsø has been one of the main arguments against Gena being able to use at all in order to meet the goal of Stortinget and the government on an analysis environment number two. Then I must simply ask the Council of State to answer yes or no: Has the government failed Tromsø, or has it not? If it does, the question is whether one intends to add to other analysis institutes to meet what has always been the common goal of the Storing and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2119	The representative Sandberg said that we have to take seriously the rape, and connected it to the fact that taking the rape seriously is just bringing people into closed reception and taking the DNA test of all asylum seekers – children, women, the elderly, the sick, everything. If it's taking rape seriously, we have a problem. Telling S.B.s that we're going to rape seriously, it's a little bit slow. If we're concerned about something, it's just women's legal certainty. If we're concerned about something, it's just how women should be able to use their democratic right to stay where they want, whenever they want, and at what time of the day they want. If there's something SV is proud of, it's just to have driven the fight for women's rights in society everywhere, in all crickets and hooks. No one's going to come and tell us that we're going to take the rape seriously. The representative of the Progress Party is still unable to respond to how it may be that when some asylum seekers rape – and no one rejects it – all asylum seekers should be tested for DNA testing. But when some white men do that, including me, let's say, a black man who is also a Northman, why shouldn't we test all the Northmen's DNA? Why don't we do that? What are the principles, investigative or ethical, underlying the discrimination of two groups? In my head – and I allow myself to be corrected by FrPs – it's like being an asylum seeker, you're by definition, that is. Definition of the Progress Party, rapist or woman. Are there any of the party representatives who are ready to argue for it in principle? That's what I'm asking. If the representatives are unable to respond, they have to propose that five million Nordics be DNA-registered because some of us commit rape and some of us commit other criminal acts as well. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2128	After many serious debates on crime in this room in recent years, I must honestly admit that there are few who arouse as much commitment as those who include DNA analyses. I was also a little bit questioning about whether it really was necessary to go up and clarify what I really said. When, in addition, it was actually referred quite precisely by the representative Octay Dahl, it may not be necessary this time either, but I want to repeat what I said, that I had perceived Tromsø primarily as discussing a possible role in the work on «second opinion» of analysis. This is a centre that is not yet established, but of course it is not. It's very important to underline. That so far there has been a budgetary question, I think I'm well known in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2135	I'll try to end the debate again. When you go into a debate, there's one important prerequisite. It's that you relate to reality. When the representative Chaudhry repeatedly tries to present what the Progress Party has proposed, will propose or have said in any context that all asylum seekers are to be DNA-registered, I will, without accusing the representative Chaudhry of lying, at least go as far as to say that it is to circumvent the truth. Because the Progress Party has never done that. It is not even in proposals 4 and 5. There is nothing in our proposals that requires the registration of all asylum seekers. It says that we believe that the government should present proposals for the necessary changes for extended registration and control. Nor does it say that we should place all asylum seekers in closed reception. However, there are measures that should be taken to facilitate investigations, in order to prevent them. It's not the Progress Party's numbers that are used when you talk about some groups being overrepresented in assault violence. It's not the Progress Party's number, as someone in this room has suggested. It's the police's own. It's police statistics. You have to deal with facts. That's why I was quite so convinced in my first post as well. These proposals, which are criticised north and down here, will at some point force themselves through anyway. Then it's going to be interesting to see what the critics say in such a context. Assaults – or rapes in general – are such a big problem that it should not end up in the kind of debate that Mr Chaudhry and Mr Sandberg have put up here. Only in Oslo are 3,000 girls and women meeting at the rape reception every year. Only 10 pst. of which end up in some form of follow-up. The dark numbers are giants. 8 000 to 16 000 rapes every year. Then it would be lacking if he did not accept all the necessary proposals, even though it might provoke such representatives as Chaudhry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2146	Akhtar Chaudhry has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2150	Let me say once again that men – all kinds of men – commit rape, including men who are asylum seekers. There's no doubt about it. I don't doubt it. That's the one. The second is that if this representative has done something in the last 30 years, it is actually trying to understand how the language – the Norwegian language – is written and understood. I should like to quote from the proposal. The following is stated in proposal 6: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary changes for an extended registration and verification upon arrival of asylum seekers so that the registration also includes DNA profiles that can be accessed by the police.’ And in proposal 7, it says: ‘The government asks the Government to open the door to place asylum seekers in closed reception.’ I now invite anyone who can better Norwegian than me to have a different understanding from what the undersigned has, namely: taking DNA profiles of all asylum seekers and shutting all asylum seekers in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2167	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2170	Just cards. It is possible that the representative Chaudhry does not perceive the proposals in the way they are intended – the intention of the proposals – but so far only the representative Chaudhry has not understood it. No one else in this debate, no one else in the committee has understood your proposal. It's just the representative Chaudhry who has understood your way. There was an en route attempt in the committee to include this in the comments as well. Then we asked for evidence of where, when and who in the Progress Party has said or proposed at any time that all asylum seekers should be DNA-registered. This documentation could not be found. The first time we proposed this was in connection with a new foreign law. There it was also discussed up and down in the opinion – about an extension – because that type of registration exists today, and then an extension is something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2175	I thought I'd stop saying something else, but I want to make it clear that the representative Skei Grande had the same opinion of the proposal that Akhtar Chaudhry had. In any case, I would say for my own part that when a read the proposal, it is not impossible to imagine that the Progress Party actually means closed reception for everyone and DNA registration for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2180	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2194	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2203	The Committee has examined a proposal for a document 8 from the Right, which is an important contribution to highlighting the need for innovation. The majority of the Committee, the parties Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, agree that systematic evaluation and dissemination of knowledge are important for the further development of a knowledge-based police force, but point to the fact that different groups have already been set up to work widely with knowledge-based experience-learning in the establishment. The rapporteur will also point out in this context how important it is that we not only evaluate the 22nd of July event and see ourselves blind to what may be its conclusion, but that we are much more forward-looking in creating systems that automatically come into force when a serious incident occurs. I come from the aviation industry myself, where it's debriefing every day. If you have some special events, it's evaluated not just every day, but for weeks, so that we can look at what went wrong, and what was good, to learn. We see the same thing in the health care system, and we see the same thing in the fire service. The minority on their side believes that when serious events happen, you get too much behind you. Having an increased focus on systematics and automation after serious incidents will also ensure that police requirements for efficiency, achievement and results are constantly adjusted based on events that have occurred. Therefore, it should have been obvious that the government parties could now see how important it is that not valuable time goes to play. Vote on the proposals and thus ensure that we will now be rusted for the next event! I refer to the proposals that lie in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2216	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she herself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2219	It is an important theme to be addressed in the proposal for a representative. We agree with the intention that lies there of better systematic evaluation of exceptional incidents in the police and dissemination of knowledge about the experience gained. However, it would have been good if the proposers and the minority had also taken into account the information provided by the Ministry in their assessments and position when replying to the Committee on what has been going on in the last year, after, among other things, the information provided by the Ministry. a 2007 crisis management book, as referred to in the proposal. What's happening is that you're starting to create the systems that, among other things, The rapporteur-general now called for it, inter alia. On 1 July last year — in 2011 — a new version of the Police Emergency Response System (PBS), called PBS, has just created a chapter on the lessons learnt from evaluation. Many of the reasons, descriptions, which are also required by the representative proposal and in the vote, are used. In addition, the Directorate of Police is not just talking about doing something, as the rapporteur said, but you are doing something. In addition to this new version of PBS, an analysis department has been created in the Directorate for the Analysis/Assessment of this type of incident/question. There is a working group to develop a methodology to systematise experience that can be used and to be used by the police as a whole. It looks at the additional governance documents needed and will contribute to the work of experience in the individual police districts. After all, we all know that the work now being carried out on the evaluations of what happened on July 22nd, both in the Police Directorate, around the affected police districts and in the Police Security Service, is very comprehensive, detailed processes, where precisely learning to evaluate better, taking experience intensely seriously, is what is at the forefront. What I'm not sure about is if you give a fair description of the situation now. Especially after increasing emphasis on the last year, with the developments I've described, I'm not sure if it gives a fair description that in the minority's attitude it says that evaluation of extraordinary events is rather the exception than the rule. Of course, we agree that this should be the rule, and should be the rule, but there is now a strong police process in place to improve evaluation systems. It is natural that this is also part of what comes to the autumn, the key message on police performance reform, because continuous work on evaluations will be an important part of achieving results, making best use of resources. We are, I hope, as we mean to see from what is now happening in the police, at the better rate of what the Storting wants. The police are in better step with what we want than what is described by the minority. I would also like to add that when we are going to work on the reform of results, get the most out of resources, we also need to take care of the situation that all organisations – when given the opportunity – have been able to get into, with more and more people working in offices, working with paperwork, making large investigations, writing descriptions, evaluations, etc. around newly created offices, i.e. more bureaucracy. Now, when we are going to work on the reform of results, we need to make sure that our demand for evaluations, more reviews of what has happened, the written nature of this, is not combined with the development of increased bureaucracy in the police. The two considerations: better experience learning, but at the same time avoiding further growth in bureaucracy should be two considerations that need to go hand in hand when we are going to work on this topic further. Today, we do not find any reason to vote in favour of the proposals, because we believe that this process has come further today than that on which the minority is promoting these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2232	The last thing about us wanting less bureaucracy and reporting was music in the Right's ears. I hope we can do that in a lot of fields in the future. With regard to the general objective here, it's full applause, homage and horn music from the Right to the representative Jan Bøhler. It is a fact that July 22 was a terrible exceptional case in terms of what we can expect to happen in Norway. It was the greatest attack on Norwegian soil since World War II. As Mr Bøhler pointed out, 22 July is under review, evaluation and investigation in a wide range of areas and under the direction of both a Commission, a separate committee, internal reviews, media review and relatives' requests to be heard, and that things should go right. We're probably going to go through this black day in Norwegian history for many, many years to come. Taking lessons from history, learning from what went wrong, or what was also done correctly, is important. But the most important thing is to understand why something went wrong, or just not least, and not just to focus on the result, but on the process up to what was the result. Then they're worried that we need a terrorist attack on Norwegian soil to understand in the police that you need to understand what evaluation is, why you do it, and not least how to do it. For this is the main reason for traveling around from police districts to police districts. If you ask the question of what is the reason for getting something good in one police district rather than another, you may not be able to answer it in the police district, because you do not have an exchange of experience and an evaluation basis that provides the knowledge transfer that you would think the police directorate had prepared before 22 July. Extraordinary events confront the police with special challenges, as it is so extensive and serious that the police have to organise, manage and use resources differently from normal line management. If we are to have a more knowledge-driven police force, we need more systematic evaluation and dissemination of knowledge. Many suggest that July 22 was of course a roadblock, but then the question comes: When the Commission has done its work, and we get it in place, what is it that suggests that the police evaluate more systematically in all other extraordinary events than they have done? The reason why we are discussing this proposal is that 22 July underlines what is the main point, namely that this type of evaluation is the exception and not the rule, as it should be. Knowledge acquisition and transfer is important. It's very easy when you're doing well, you're giving a slap on your shoulder, this was great – and then it's pure and cutting coincidences that made things work out. There's a reason why police employees, not least the more and more educated police students we get into the police, are asking for this kind of evaluation of what they're doing, of the job they're doing. They perceive that there are too many coincidences, it is too random what is considered to be good or bad, and that there are wrong criteria to be taken into account – if at all there are some clear criteria to be taken into account when evaluating. In particular, the Special Police Unit is not suitable for carrying out this type of evaluation that we address in the proposal. To the right, there is a need for a common understanding of what evaluation is — why it is done and how it is implemented — and the results need to be disseminated. Real judgements on the management of exceptional events by individual officials and managers will contribute to fewer misunderstandings. We're going to get a lot of answers with the July 22 Commission, and we're going to have an interesting debate when we discuss the results reform. But it's a little special that it's going to kind of lead to the Norwegian police being as knowledge-driven as they've pointed out for years by the police that you're not, and that's why the Right is promoting the proposal, and will also be voting for its own proposal here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2247	Systematic evaluation of experience from exceptional events is important as a tool for change and improvement. Further development of police preparedness must be based on experience. On 1 July 2011, a new revised version of the Police Emergency Response System, also known as PBS, Part 1 was in place. This constitutes the foundation for the consistent and effective handling in the police of both ordinary and extraordinary events. I am pleased that this new edition provides a significant extension of the discussion of experience learning, compared to the contents of the 2007 crisis management book, as referred to in the draft representative. A separate chapter is devoted to experience learning. Evaluation is highlighted as an important tool in gaining knowledge of effectiveness, achievement and results. Both tactical debriefing and systematic evaluation are referred to as two methods that may be included in an evaluation and moment lists have been developed for both methods. It underlines that evaluation of police action should have a positive educational purpose, namely to learn the most from what was done. After a serious incident, it is absolutely necessary to ask questions about how police action and rescue work were carried out, in order to learn from experience. The main objective of the evaluation work now being carried out, both in the police and in the 22nd of July, is to learn how to take proper action in terms of change and improvement. However, we do not sit still and await the evaluation reports. A number of measures have been taken or are under way to strengthen security and preparedness. It is essential to ensure that the necessary knowledge is disseminated in the police action. Here, the Police Directorate has a central role to play through its emergency management documents, as well as support and assistance for the evaluation work in the police districts. The Directorate of Police set up in the harvest a department of analysis to be an expert body for analysis and evaluation in the establishment. The Directorate is also working on a mandate for a working group such as: shall develop common methodology for the collection and systematisation of experience. There are thus several processes in progress that will contribute to the quality assurance of police evaluation and knowledge implementation. The police directorate’s evaluation of the police’s handling of attacks on 22 July will also provide valuable knowledge and learning as well as help to further develop the evaluation methodology of the agency. The work of the 22nd July Commission will also provide significant points of learning. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the already mentioned report on the reform of the results of the Member State of residence, which will be presented later this year. Here, the Department will review police tasks and organisation. A separate chapter of the Communication will address just learning, evaluation and research. Any proposals for measures will be addressed in this context. Mr. Øyvind Korsberg had taken over the President's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2266	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2282	‘All humans are born free and with the same human dignity and human rights’. This is how Article 1 of the Declaration of Human Rights starts. Women who experience sexual violence are not free. They're deprived of the freedom we set so high in this part of the world. To experience that the one you love, to resort to violence, is one of the most offensive things you can experience. Children who experience violence from one or both parents are unfree – born unfree. Witnessing violence can also be very harmful to children. Violence in close relationships is a serious social problem and a criminal act we do not accept. Every fourth woman has been subjected to some form of violence or threat of violence in Norway. It shows a study conducted by NIBR and NTNU in May 2005. Violence against women, children and men is a serious crime. Violence creates insecurity. It can cause health damage, loss of well-being, and it limits the individual’s life span. Violence against women is a cause for inequality and an obstacle to real gender equality. We have a responsibility to help prevent all violence – not least the violence that takes place in a close relationship within the four walls of the house. Men also experience violence in relationships, both hetero- and gay society. This is a social problem that we rarely talk about. Little research has been done on men who experience physical and mental violence from their partners. Nevertheless, scientists and professionals assume that several thousand men live under such conditions. Reform — a resource centre for men — receives from the partner between 40 and 50 requests per year from men who are subjected to violence. The center assumes that every fourth to sixth person exposed to gross partner violence is a man. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress — NKVTS — shall for the first time launch a pilot study on violence and abuse against men in close relationships and their need for assistance. The NIBR and NTNU studies show that both men and women report having been subjected to violence from their current or former partners. But the violence that women are subjected to is far more serious than the violence that men claim to be exposed to. Earlier this year, an interim action plan was presented, one of which is to engage boys and men in the fight against violence against women. Reform — the Men’s Resource Centre — has a project called ‘Together against Rape’. This project informs the government that you want to support. It is an awareness-raising campaign aimed specifically at young people. Measures aimed at young people are important when we know that one in 10 women after age 15 have experienced that partners have used weapons, taken suffocational roofs or knocked their heads against floors or objects. One out of 40 men report the same thing. In Denmark, the association ‘Children and Young People in Violence Families’ has created an Internet page about, among others, love violence. On the page there is a test to see if you are the hero or the passive spectator and a mailbox where children and young people can ask anonymous questions about the theme. Earlier this winter, the Norwegian Women's Sanity Association conducted a survey to map the awareness of violence in close relations. Among the 1,000 respondents, 84 responded. that they don't think they know anyone who experiences violence in close relationships. As mentioned, we know that one in four is experiencing violence within the four walls of the house. That means that this issue must always be on the agenda. We can never discuss it enough. Many may think that violence in close relationships does not concern them. But the speech of the figures is clear: because of the violence of men, 1,000 women in Norway are fleeing. They live at a strictly confidential address. Between 1200 and 1,800 women go at any time with a violent alarm in Norway. A doctoral study of Kjersti Alsaker shows that 38 pst. of abused women are not allowed to work by their husband. Still, the common man in the street, you and I, don't think we know anyone who experiences violence in close relationships. This means that there is a lack of knowledge about the topic. It is very gratifying that several points in the action plan for the current year are devoted to this. Among other things, the Ministry of Knowledge shall, at consultation, submit proposals for clearer objectives in relevant curricula for students’ competence in violence, infringements, marginalisation and sexuality, and the course on conflict management and communication in secondary school should be started – especially in relation to couples and family relationships. In order to prevent violence and address the problem when we suspect that someone is being subjected to domestic violence, we need to gain more knowledge in society in general, but in some occupational groups in particular. It is important that different occupational groups have knowledge of violence in close relationships, both in recognising violence when it occurs, in knowing how to deal with the vulnerable and in being aware of warning procedures and systems. This applies in particular to healthcare professionals, hospital workers, physiotherapists and dental practitioners, but also to teachers and pre-school teachers. These are precisely the sensors of society towards the vulnerable groups. Violence in close relationships is a social problem, and then, as a society, we have to take responsibility for everyone who can prevent and localize this kind of violence having the knowledge they need. The WG of the WG has established a working group against violence in close relations. Our main concern is to be careful, so that violence in close relationships gets a place in staging messages and propositions from the government. In the work of the welfare state's professions, it has been important for us to get a point that all professional groups working with people on a daily basis should have knowledge of violence in close relationships. We live longer in this country, and that means that far more people have to work in the healthcare sector in the future. Getting these considerable knowledge of violence in close relationships through their education, this will be propagated, and society in general will get more and better knowledge of violence in close relationships. Studies from Denmark show that on average one to two students attend each class step living in a family with violence. Violence and assault are part of many children's everyday lives and growing up. Children who are subjected to violence and abuse will be able to be affected by these experiences for the rest of their lives. Children exposed to violence are at high risk of becoming unsafe and of reducing health and quality of life — even in adulthood. Childhood also has self-esteem. It is our responsibility to make sure that children grow up in good and safe surroundings. In Norway, a number of children’s homes have been established in recent years. Children's homes are now established in Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø, Kristiansand, Hamar, Oslo and Stavanger. In the current state budget, it is made up of money for children's homes in Ålesund. Children's Homes is a cross-ministerial cooperation between the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice. The Annual Mission Letter to the Regional Resource Centres on Violence, Traumatic Stress and Suicide Prevention, RVTS, includes the task of establishing and developing cooperation with children’s homes. The RVTS have established formal cooperation agreements with the children’s homes in their respective regions, contributed to the establishment work and contribute on a regular basis to the competence and dissemination of knowledge in the field of violence and child abuse. It is very important that the courts apply the children’s homes. As an example, the Salt doesn't use the district children's house in Tromsø. There could be a lot of reasons for this and the distances in the north are probably one of them. However, children who experience violence, incest or sexual assault should receive equal treatment across the country, and therefore during the year there will be children's homes established in all health regions. People live in a municipality, so it is important that municipalities take their responsibility to prevent and prevent violence in close relationships. It is a wish of the government that several municipalities adopt action plans against violence in close relations. As part of this, a guide for the preparation of municipal action plans shall be established, which shall be updated and relaunched as a web-based solution. This shall be done in cooperation between the NKVTS and the RVTS. RVTS shall strengthen their efforts towards municipalities to contribute to the development and implementation of municipal action plans and shall report annually on the number of plans developed or under preparation. I want these reports to be public, so we know how many municipalities have not made an action plan. It's not the first time this topic is up for debate in Stortinget, and I don't think it's going to be the last time either. With a relatively new Minister of Justice and a recently submitted action plan against violence in close relations, I think it is appropriate that the Stortinget discuss this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2318	Violence in close relationships is a serious crime and a major social problem that cannot be combated by legal instruments alone. Several departments, departments and trade unions must work together to ensure a coherent and coordinated approach to prevention, assistance, protection, detection and prosecution. Violence in close relationships includes domestic violence, but also violence against the elderly, violence against children, violence between siblings and other family relationships. Violence in close relationships creates insecurity, fear, trauma and anxiety. Relationships that would involve security and trust are characterised by exploitation, infringement and breach of trust. The violence that takes place in the private sphere is kept hidden by shame, fear, isolation, manipulation and denial. The victims will often try to hide their situation, children are loyal to their parents, and the attacker may completely deny that violence takes place. We others do not see the violence – or we do not want to see it. We must turn this around! Combating violence in close relationships is one of the main areas of government activity. I will continue this effort with unimpaired strength. A short time ago, together with several of my colleagues, I launched the government's new action plan against violence in close relations. The plan is valid for 2012 and contains 23 measures to prevent and combat violence in close relations. The plan replaces the Government Action Plan by the name of Turnpoint and will fill the need for continuity and strengthening of work against violence in close relations in the short term. Good structures have been established for the fight against violence in close relations. The establishment of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, the NKVTS, five regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention, reception of violence and abuse in all counties and up to seven children’s homes are important elements of this structure. Family violence coordinators and police district teams, the development of a nationwide assistance and treatment provision for violent perpetrators and the legalisation of crisis centre provision are other important structural interventions. We must ensure good professional content in the offer and good interaction between the actors. Targeted action against violence in close relationships requires, as the interpellant rightly stresses, good knowledge of the extent, nature and consequences of violence. Knowledge shall be enhanced through continued commitment to research and development. Of major ongoing projects, I mention that the Ministry of Justice has commissioned the NKVTS to carry out a nation-wide scope study on violence in close relationships. Data collection will take place in 2012 and the first results of the survey are expected in 2013/2014. This year, NKVTS will be commissioned to acquire knowledge of children who are subjected to violence and abuse by their mother, violence and abuse between young girls and between siblings. Research will help to make this violence visible and enable us to better target and tailor the necessary actions. Other new research assignments to contribute to enhanced knowledge are a study of family violence in Sami communities, a survey of lesbians, gays, biphiles and transhumance exposure to violence in close relations and research in the field of drug abuse and violence. We know that in almost half of all cases where women are killed, the perpetrator is a current or former partner. The Ministry of Justice has ordered a screening of such killing cases to identify risk factors that might have been mitigated by good relief measures. The aim is to develop better protection measures and prevention strategies. The monitoring will be carried out as soon as the necessary research permits are available. Violence in close relationships costs society a lot of money. In addition to the non-economic damage suffered by individuals, violence in close relationships is a major cost to society. Costs in Finland were estimated at around 750 million in 2002. Norwegian Krone per year. I recently ordered an investigation to identify and estimate the socio-economic costs of violence in close relations in Norway. Report expected by the end of the year. A comprehensive evaluation of police work has been carried out in this field. The evaluation is carried out at the Police College and is expected to provide important insights into how we can further strengthen police efforts. The system of family violence coordinators and how the perpetrator is met by the police are included as a central part of the evaluation. In addition, a closer look at how the police cooperate with other agencies. The scheme of children's homes is also under evaluation. Both reports will be available during this year. In order to ensure that the relevant authorities and services have an overall understanding of the issues, knowledge is required to be made available and to contribute to the enhancement of the competence of relevant professional bodies and groups. The 2012 Action Plan therefore places particular emphasis on strengthening the competence for violence and abuse in child protection and other relief services as well as in the courts. The Government, as already mentioned, is working on a communication to the European Parliament on education and training for the professions of the welfare country. The Communication refers to common areas of competence for all health and social education. It is essential that the services of the welfare country are able to provide good assistance to persons exposed to violence and abuse. Prevention is essential to break the spiral of violence. Good prevention can help prevent violence and stop ongoing violence. Such measures may also contribute to the greater detection of violence by several notifying of the vulnerability of their own or others. I am pleased that, as an action plan measure, the Ministry of Knowledge will send, at the hearing, proposals for clearer objectives in relevant curricula for students’ competences on violence, infringements, demarcation and sexuality. Schools play an important role in the growth of children and have great opportunities to both prevent, detect and contribute to the implementation of the necessary measures. Violence in close relationships particularly affects women and children. The most serious violence is mainly perpetrated by men. An important precautionary measure is therefore to further mobilise men in the fight against violence against women. Most men do not practice violence, but all men can contribute by marking their distance from attitudes that underpin violence against their own family. An important part of prevention is targeted at people who have already developed a problem of violence. Through close follow-up, treatment and help, we can help those who commit violence to take active responsibility and refrain from continued violence. The government is developing a comprehensive range of aid and treatment services for violent perpetrators, including: through the establishment of new offers under the auspices of Alternatives to Violence. Good interaction across services and boundaries is a prerequisite both for preventing and for providing the victim with good and proper follow-up. I would particularly like to highlight the police councils, which the government has highlighted as an important crime prevention forum. The government will encourage and stimulate several municipalities to develop their own action plans on violence in close relationships. That is why we are going to rework the guide for the development of local action plans and relaunch it as a web-based solution. This year we will also organise a national conference presenting good models of cooperation, coordination and implementation of actions and plans. We will even award a prize for good local cooperation projects to prevent and combat violence in close relationships. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that during the course of the year I will return to Stortinget with a message of violence in close relations. The notification shall state the status of the work against violence in close relationships, identify remaining challenges and indicate the direction of further work. In the context of the notification, the government will also develop a new action plan, which will apply for the period 2013-2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2371	Earlier today I met Anne Grethe Solberg. She was shot by her ex-husband five years ago. The left shoulder has been amputated, and she has suffered a permanent hip injury as a result of this shooting drama. She still has well over 200 hails in her body. From 2000 until May 2011, 98 women were killed by their partner/ex partner or girlfriend. Anne Grethe could have been one of them. She believes that it should be taught and trained in dialogue and good communication in couple relations. Many couples struggle with communication and to resolve life conflicts, especially in the event of a breakup. Anne Grethe believes that we need more knowledge to prevent violence and the killing of life crimes or conflicts from taking place. It's not about asking why he's hitting, or why she's "let" be beaten. There is reason to believe that this is a total picture — economics, alcohol, low self-esteem and self-respect, social security, unemployment, psychiatric illness, separation, minor offences, etc. We need neighbors who care, and family members who know what criteria to look for in life conflicts – how is the man, how is his behavior, is he in danger of harming himself and others? Work on violence against children and violence in close relations has been one of the largest areas of activity in the justice field for this government. The government has, among other things: increased penalties, strengthened the position of the victim, extended the compensation for victims of violence and established children's homes. In Soria Moria II, the government will continue, strengthen and improve its efforts against violence particularly affecting women and children, and the government will also strengthen its efforts against rape and sexual assault. I am very pleased that Minister of Justice Grete Faremo today says that this will not slow down; there will be even more focus on the theme ahead. We know that the violence that happens at home rarely gets caught, despite the fact that it hits us where we are to be safest – at home. Violence in close relationships is crime, and crime is a social responsibility. The debate must turn towards what works. I am very pleased that there has been a big message about violence in close relations, and I hope that the recordings that come into the debate today will be included in the further work. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2390	I really want to commend the interpellant for addressing this important topic, as well as the angle of competence that the interpellant has. I think it's absolutely necessary that we build more knowledge of what we're really facing. This is a violation of individuals we cannot tolerate – serious crime. There are major societal challenges, and we've discussed it too little. And when we discuss it, we also discuss it without the basic knowledge of what this is. That's why I put emphasis on making everything we've now started with skills-building measures. Much of this will be done throughout the year. We are also going to present a big message during the year. So we will have the basic and broad debate on what status is and where the way forward is going, while building more and more knowledge. Of course, the ambition is to ensure that police and prosecution authorities base their actions on better knowledge. We already have special posts and teams that are good in this area, and we have to make sure that the entire department is also better at investigating and arranging it. But the job will never be done by the police alone. That is why I also stressed the importance of cross-border cooperation. This is one of the areas in which we must stand together in both prevention and assistance and assistance for victims, as well as in the investigation and prosecution of criminal acts. I look forward to the debate and am also prepared to listen to good ideas and suggestions in order to take this further with me in the work in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2399	Choices in close relationships have a significant extent, and the number of reported cases to the police is increasing. In addition, crisis centres around the country announce that the number of visitors exposed to violence is increasing. Many families live with major conflicts that in some cases end up with tragic deaths and have killings as an outlet. These are often families who have been through long-standing crises, often characterized by jealousy and control. There is reason to believe that the known case is only the top of an iceberg, and that many people who have been exposed to this type of selection are not registered at all. Chosen in close relationships, which is a common sense where the overlap and the victims are related to each other with family or family ties, is today a formidable problem that happens to thousands of families. Often this power is exercised by men who are unable to control feelings of renunciation and relief, and who by their detachment correct their aggression against women, the elderly or children. But there is also reason to focus on the power of children against parents and also the power to which men are subjected. Many families live in a deep secret when it comes to the power for which they grow out of their partners and children. Shame and fear are great, and too many families will therefore continue and unfortunately in some cases lead to dramatic and tragic events that we often read about in the newspapers. The worst of all is silence. Meanwhile, many people are hurting, not least the children. They are helpless witnesses of the chosen ones who daily appear to be ahead of their eyes – saving children, angry and shameful adults who desperately search for an auxiliaries at their disposal. The consequences for those selected in close relationships are extensive, such as poor quality of life and a significant health risk. Our children have a good start in life. The growth rate is particularly important to prevent problems later. Children who grow up with this authority experience a lack of security and suffering. That is why I am pleased that the government has established a stepping-up plan to strengthen child protection by adding more to it, to strengthen the competence of those added to the healthcare system, and to provide good technical assistance to children and family members. The government has also ensured that all police districts today have a system of full-time family election coordinators. There is also every reason to give the organisations that work in these areas the reward for the work they do against those who exercise power. Unfortunately, we note that the low-threshold supply to those who use power is insufficiently developed and that more people do not get help because of a lack of capacity. Let's say that all use of power is contrary to Norwegian law and an attack on fundamental human rights – as the right to rule over own lives and own health. In addition, Norway has joined a number of international conventions which state that we should fight against this type of reprehensible power. Even though Norway on an international scale is at the forefront of fighting violence in close relationships, we can't settle for it. My wish is that the capacity for treatment is increased even more, and that we need to get even more focus on prevention. Therefore, all – I stress all – municipalities in the country should draw up an action plan against violence in close relation, in line with the guidance from the action plan that the government presented in January. One may not be aware that there are only a few municipalities around the country who take this work seriously. Finally, I want to thank the interpellant for seeing this issue on the agenda today, and I also want to thank the Minister of Justice and the Government for an offensive attitude and approach to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2425	I thank the interpellant for lifting up the theme of violence in close relationships. It is a theme that the Progress Party has been very concerned about. There are, among other things: proposed penalties in this area. We have also requested the introduction of so-called reverse violence alarm. I think it is very unfortunate that it is the victim of violence who must protect himself. Many victims of violence live in a secret place, and they have had to break with their old network – family, work and acquaintances. Many of these have children, and the consequence may in some cases be that children too lose contact with friends, school and family networks. That is why I am calling for an intensification of the work on the so-called reverse alarm of violence. It should be the perpetrator of violence and the perpetrator of threats that bear the burden of these acts – not the victim of violence. It's a cross of thought that it seems that the statistics on violence in close relationships are going in the wrong direction. In 2011, there were 3,114 reviews in this category – that is, family abuse. It's an increase from previous years. During the five-year period 2007–2011 we talk about an increase of 107 pst. - That's more than a double. This may be that several dare to report, but probably there is also a real increase. Crisis centres are full, and a large proportion of those who use the help they get there are non-Western immigrant women. This is an element that we must not forget in this debate. The topic has not been mentioned either by the inter-pellant or the Council of State, which I think may be worrying. I would like to know if the Council of State has any thoughts about measures specifically targeting this group. However, I am generally pleased with the signals given by the Council of State regarding violence against children and children who are witnessing domestic violence. That's this group I'm most concerned about. We all agree here that violence in close relationships is a social problem that needs to be taken seriously. Research shows that it is not only harmful for children themselves to be victims of threats and violence, but witnessing family violence is very harmful. In fact, research shows that trauma and stress can lead to permanent damage. This again makes us not just facing a problem in the field of justice. It is a health problem at the highest level and, in the next round, a question that may have an impact on children’s learning and later working life. The intention of the government’s recent action plan is good, but which so often does not benefit from ambitions and plans if it is not possible to follow it up, or there is insufficient resources in – it may be – the police, health services or child protection. The police have improved in recent years to deal with these kinds of issues, but this can continue to be a higher priority. It is also still a problem of lengthy proceedings in many police districts. I therefore want clarification from the government and the state councils in relation to progress in this area – specifically on the very issue of the introduction of the reverse violence alarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2446	I want to thank the interpellant. I record one thing: there are nine women and three men engaged in this debate. It's quite symptomatic. I'm going to deal with a subject that's mentioned in a confession: violence against men. I'm a board member of the Norwegian Crisis Center Federation. On 23 November last year, we organised a conference called Stories that Do Not Exist – Men subjected to violence in close relations. It was a very good title, because the numbers show that of those who are actually exposed to violence in close relationships, it's 16.7 pst. of the men addressing the auxiliaries, while 83,3 pst. of the women contacting the auxiliaries. If you google "violence against women" and "violence against men" respectively, you will get 7,750 pictures in the first case, while 916 pictures are given in the case of violence against men. If you look at the pictures, there are even more extreme gender differences. In the pictures of women exposed to violence, there are bruises, women that go wrong, and you see the perpetrators of violence. In the case of men who are subjected to violence, there are no pictures of bruises at all. You often have images of women who are actually exposed to violence. Otherwise, it's comical. It's Finbeck and Fia and comedies that come up when you Google. It says a lot about the gender differences and how to look at this type of subject. So there's almost no research. So, as I mentioned, people report very rarely. They feel, if possible, even more shame. They experience extreme prejudices, because a real man is probably not beaten up by his wife. It is used in children's distribution cases. Men don't fit the victim concept, and research we have up to now is essentially on hegemony, feminist research, how many actually seek to avoid men getting an offer, because there's a struggle for resources, it doesn't fit in with the concepts you've been working on for many years. That's some reason why men aren't seen. At the conference there were some examples from the reality, where there were violent men standing up and telling me what it had been like to meet the helper. One told me that the doctor had told him that it was only to lie down on the sofa if the wife was a little difficult. Then there was an example of him being raped. Then the reactions on the web were that he was just going to be happy he "got himself". So that's the last example. He was Swedish. He was finally so desperate after being beaten and stabbed by the wife saying that he finally said that he had committed violence against his wife, in order to escape. And then there was action. He had this year after year met the auxiliaries with bruises and everything. No one asked what he had been exposed to. At the moment he said he had beaten, he was very glad, for then he was imprisoned, so he got away from his violent partner. He took all the blame. He was actually sitting there for years. Finally, one person realized what he had been exposed to, namely, violence from his female partner. No one had thought. Of course, the neighbors thought he was the one who beat his wife, and so ugly at him, but she was the perpetrator all the time. We had a little parallel debate in the VG last week about mastery techniques. It was a female representative who said that it is not just men who are involved in ruling techniques; it concerns both sexes. I think that debate is quite symptomatic of how this debate is conducted, because gender-specific things are at the root of what is exactly the same, even though men are able to exert stronger physical violence. But they may be even less able to protect themselves against some of the worst violence they experience from a female partner, because of the prejudices of society. In public campaigns, there is a lot of money being spent on the fact that only men can stop violence against women. We see the difference between the legs. In the case of heterophilic boys, it's 2-4 pst. who report violence from parents or siblings, while in the case of gay boys, it is 16 pst. reporting the same thing, i.e. an eight-fold increase of what is common. In terms of violence among homosexuals, the attitude is that where there are two men, there's only one way that boys make up. That's the attitude of society. Finally, I would just like to mention that until that conference on 23 November, both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality were repeatedly invited, but no one from the departments had time to come – the first time such a conference was held in Norway, I confessed. So my question to the Council of State is: I agree with everything else that has been said here, but what will the Council of State do to take over this subject as well, as the inter-pellant – well enough – has at least mentioned in a petition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2473	Violence against a human being is a violation of his fundamental human rights. It's a violation of human dignity to be subjected to violence. The worst of violence is not the bruises and fractures, which are serious enough, but the experience of being powerless, it's not to be able to do anything to protect itself, it's to be in the power and control of the perpetrator, it's to be destroyed at the moment, wiped out as a human being, at the same time as you're there, feel pain, both the physical and the one that only leaves traces of the soul. In 2010 — 2011 figures are not finished — there were 2,500 people staying in crisis centres. Half of these women had children with them. The trauma and the pressures that children get from the mother being subjected to violence, we can only imagine. We have now disregarded the fact that we are subjected to violence and that we are witnessing violence. So serious is it to see that another, and preferably his own mother, be subjected to violence. There was someone who said that if you want to give a child a gift, treat the child's mother nicely. It's the best gift a child can get. We also know the opposite. There are between 8 000 and 16,000 women who are exposed to sexual violence in our country every year. So what can we do? My claim is – and it has been advanced in the past – that not all men beat, not all men rape, and not all men are perpetrators. Neither of us men can take responsibility for the dark deeds of other men, but we men can contribute to taking responsibility for the debate, for the attitudes. We're part of the solution. The representative Oktay Dahl had a very striking observation. There are very few men participating in this debate – whether it is in the main hall or at the MiRA centre or at the legal advisory meetings of women. I was at a meeting. 50 women had met — they were to discuss the economic position of women in Norway, 50 people. One was a man, it was me -- I was invited. About like that, it's all around when you talk about women's position and violence against women. In addition to the measures — many have come through the Council of State — there are two things that I think I will spend the last two minutes on. One is violence against the elderly. We talk a lot, and it's affordable and necessary, about violence in close relationships, violence against women and children. But the commitment and time almost do not reach as far as talking about violence against the elderly. There are very many people in our country who depend on the care of the very people who expose them to violence. We can help women and children, we can take them out of the relationship of violence. It's a lot worse with the elderly. They might be in that ratio. We need research there. We have almost no research on it, we have almost no figures on it, there is no debate on it. Those people, older people in our society, are entitled to take violence against them at least as seriously as we take violence against women, children and men seriously. I travel around the country and ask what it's like in the municipalities. I am constantly getting away – what we can say – surprised that the action plan against violence in close relations with municipalities is not a topic. There are police councils around the country, but the action plan on violence is not exactly being discussed in close relations. It is a strong recommendation to the municipalities to do so. I would say it so strongly that if it does not happen in a short time, I will not rule out that we oblige the municipalities to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2490	The theme of this interaction is set in close relationships. The interpellant asks how to prevent and prevent women, young people and men from being subjected to such power. I think it's unlikely that the main focus is on prevention. The Minister of Justice did well for the measures that the government has already taken, and what is coming, so I'm not going to repeat it here. I would particularly like to take a side to the preventive work. This applies to cooperation between local actors as a key factor for closing down. It's about a strong and competent child protection at the local level. It's about kindergartens, schools, the health center, and a local police force that, through good interaction, captures problems and can do something with them. Good welfare and available health services, especially within psychiatry, are essential to prevent people from developing to become power practitioners. We all know, of course, that the fact that the police know people, and that people know the police, makes it hopefully easier for a person to discover things and deal with them. With more local actors who know each other, it is an advantage to be able to work with prevention. Unfortunately, when the young have already been victims of violence, it is easy for them to inherit, for them to become victims of violence, or for them to exercise authority in a situation like this. Thus it will capture young victims of violence and give them a good follow-up to prevent the future. One can at best prevent them from coming into a chosen situation as adults, and that it will then move forward in new generations. We in the Center Party are busy with equivalent and public offerings throughout the country. It means that we're busy with what I'm talking about: a local police force, a close child protection service and a good local supply on many levels to make it possible to cooperate well for the individual citizen. I think it is good that it is highlighted in the debate that men are also victims of violence in close relationships, and that young people use power against parents. Such knowledge is important for the implementation of relevant targeted actions on a broader front. It is also worth noting that some authority makers express the need for help themselves. Bearing in strong aggression and anger is not good for the individual either, and when the outcome is that one beats and hurts one's closest, it may be shameful for the relevant controllers, of course, regardless of gender. We have now seen examples of a good course in prison, as a mind-meistering course, which can contribute, a life course like that, a course in communicating. I don't think a should underestimate the use of this to prevent the future selected one from happening. And then, unfortunately, some people don't want that kind of help, and that kind of help doesn't bite. It's about psychopaths, who lack empathy, and for whom there's no hope on the whole. Then it is important that one prevents them from exercising power with other means. It's all about discovering it again. I have a pretty horrible story about a kindergarten where kindergarten staff discovered sexual assault on a girl. They warned child protection, but it never went to the police. They tried several times, so I think it's very important that the lines of communication between the different actors are clear and clear, so that one reaches those who will know about it, so that it is possible for the police to grasp it. At least this is something I hope we can look forward to, so that local actors are aware of how they can best contribute to a discovery and follow up the case of choice in close relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2510	I would also like to thank the interpellant for taking up violence in close relations. The size has discussed the issue many times before, and we have to keep doing it, because unfortunately, violence in close relations is a form of crime that is difficult to combat. The government’s new 2012 action plan is a necessary continuation of this work and, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the majority government has the ambition to continue, strengthen and improve efforts against violence in close relations. That's good. That's what's needed. As former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget said in an interview on this issue in autumn 2006, that: ‘we are faced with a type of violence and assault, which is virtually indifferent both in terms of scale and in terms of the manner in which violence is perpetrated’. This violence particularly affects children and women, and it hits hard. That's the brutality in itself. It usually never ends; the victims just go and wait for the next time, and there's nowhere to hide. Violence is perpetrated by the one who was actually about to stand close — a huge intrusion in itself — and it is often hidden from the outside world. It makes these victims of violence some of the most vulnerable. They require the continuous attention of society. We must prevent, protect and punish. It's a national task, but it's also an international one. In 2006, the Council of Europe, our human rights organisation, launched its three-year campaign ‘Parliaments united in combating domestic violence against women’ in close cooperation with the UN. The Council of Europe emphatically stated that domestic violence is a clear violation of human rights and, at the same time, the most widespread form of violation of human rights. It happens in all Member States, across borders, age groups, races, family types and social environments. The campaign has been followed up in retrospect, and Norway is represented in an international network of parliamentarians, by Håkon Haugli, who is a member of our Council of Europe delegation. The latter is a new Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Violence in Close Relations, the so-called Istanbul Convention, which is the most comprehensive international treaty against this type of human rights violation. It is about preventing violence, protecting victims and persecuting perpetrators and is an important step towards a safer Europe. The Convention is groundbreaking in several ways. It recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights and thus places the states at risk. It is the first convention that defines gender – not only biological but also as a social category. It refers to role patterns and behaviours as important explanations that violence against women is actually also accepted in some environments. The Convention states that female sexual mutilation, forced marriage, persecution, so-called ‘stalking’, forced abortion and forced sterilisation are punishable. This means that states must include this as criminal matters in their own legislation, and it is groundbreaking in some countries. Otherwise, of course, physical and mental violence, sexual violence and harassment are involved. A separate monitoring mechanism shall verify compliance with the Convention. The Convention therefore requires States to prevent, inter alia: through changes in attitudes, through transnational coordination, through increased competence in legal and auxiliaries, equality as part of school curricula, the protection of victims and the punishment of perpetrators. The Convention provides for stricter penalties when violence is perpetrated by a related person. Explanations based on culture, tradition, religion or so-called concepts of honor are not accepted. It applies to women and girls — regardless of background, age, ethnic origin, religion, social origin, refugee status or sexual orientation. However, countries are also encouraged to use measures against other victims of violence in close relationships, for example: men, children and the elderly, as the interpellant takes up, and as other speakers have also been. But it doesn't help much with conventions if they don't get started. During the last session of the Council of Europe, now in January, the Parliamentary Assembly – including the Norwegian votes – adopted a recommendation to all Member States to sign and ratify the Convention. 16 Member States have signed, including Norway, but only one country, Turkey, has ratified. Ten is needed. It would therefore have been nice if the Council of State in its last speech could suggest when Norway could be ready to ratify. Many are already in place, and this would be a handshake for women across Europe, not just here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2530	I also want to give honor to the interpellant to address this important topic, which we can never discuss enough in this room. However, I will follow up on what the previous speaker said, that this is a topic that has actually been debated quite often in this Chamber. We debate, and we debate, and we make reports, and samples are put down, and now there are also two action plans that it is important to include. But it's not useful to have a lot of nice words on the paper if we can't get rid of the problem. So it's said that we have a new Minister of Justice, and let's hope that the new Minister of Justice can continue to have a good press on this. But it is now the case that we have had a government – now with a majority in Stortinget – that has had, they say, focus on this topic without us having come so much further. We are discussing this, and it is an important debate. It's not often I boast of VG, but I don't know how many of you have got with you VG's advertising that shows a happy couple, and where in the next picture there is a violent act in close relationships. This advertisement is actually quite thoughtful, and I hope it can wake up a lot of people out there. Because it is that violence in close relationships is a very taboo theme. It happens in the best homes, it happens in those homes where we might least know. It is important that the municipalities themselves make plans for this, but I am a little uncertain whether the representative Akhtar Chaudhry will oblige the municipalities to make their own action plans, or whether he is trying to get the plans we have debated out there. I think a lot of the problem is that over the years, the police may not have been tough enough – or perhaps not recognised enough – to deal with violence in relations. Now I know that there is a work going on for the police to have more focus on these issues, and that's well and good, but this is a pressure that we have to keep going. In the case of crisis centres, they were transferred to municipal responsibility last year, and all municipalities are required to have a crisis centre offer. However, the Progress Party is concerned about the situation of the weakened economy that very many crisis centres in the country are experiencing now. The Progress Party therefore made a proposal in the budget that crisis centres should again be transferred to state responsibility for obtaining an equivalent offer for all crisis centres around the country, without it being ensured. I would like to ask the Council of State to follow closely the developments in the municipal crisis centres, so that we have a good offer in place. In a lot of these families that apply, there are tragic episodes, and a lot of these episodes happen in connection with community problems. It may be a father who is despaired of losing his or her relationship with his or her children, and it may be the opposite – that it is relative to mother. It is important that we address this problem of community because we know that very many families are struggling with a very high level of conflict in such situations. The representative, Lene Vågslid, had in his blog yesterday about children who are subjected to violence from their parents, and who must have relations with these parents. There's something that shouldn't happen. Therefore, several times in this Chamber, the Progress Party has proposed that parents who commit violence and who are convicted of violent acts should automatically lose contact with their children. That's something the Council of State Lighthouse has said he'll pick up, but we haven't seen so much about it. Then I would like to say that I am pleased that the interpellant has entered the judicial committee, and that she has been visiting the children's house in Tromsø. The undersigned has twice visited the children's house in Tromsø. I visited it when I was on the Justice Committee and when I was on the Family Committee one year ago. What's scary is that it's the same problems that are addressed every time we big-time politicians visit the children's houses. Now I'm just referring to what's happening in Tromsø, but it's relative to the treatment period. Children’s homes are incredibly good measures, and I look forward to the evaluation that comes there, but it is still so important that the treatment time in children’s homes is reduced. It should not be the case that issues relating to children coming to children’s homes are not addressed, that one has to go and wait up to several months – as is the case in some cases – until something is done. It's important that the children's houses act quickly, and that we get these court hearings in place, and not least that we get the justice system using these children's houses much more than they've done. One has also been involved in....
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2551	Then I think the president has to tell you that speaking time is up. That's the time that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2554	It's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2559	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2562	First of all, I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for putting one of the most serious societal problems we are now facing, on the agenda of the Stortinget. The fight against violence in close relationships is compounded. It is about holding work in the school, about a wide range of competences, about coordination and cooperation between agencies, about research – and the list continues. But it's also about what you and I do as a fellow human being, that it's better to report from once too much than once too little, that it's important to ask your student, your colleague, or the older you're home help at: "I think you understand that sea" is the title of the book about Christoffer, the eight-year-old good who was deprived of life after gross mistreatment. It is heartbreaking to read the book and sue about Christoffer, and it is serious to see such an example of how everyone who would help – everyone who actually saw – failed in all fields. Every time Christoffer was asked where all the injuries came from, he said first that he didn't think, then he said, "I think you understand that sail." But no one understood enough to prevent what he was exposed to, at least not until it was too late. I think it's incredibly important to continue to strengthen skills and coordinate auxiliaries in order to be able to prevent better. As the interpellant said, a strengthening of the knowledge of the field must be a significant factor in education and training, and the focus must be on compulsory and mandatory reporting. In Christoffer's case, too many examples were given of the fact that the obligation to participate and the lack of knowledge about what to do were a serious obstacle. As the representative Chaudhry said, the elderly is also an area that needs to increase focus, and I have at least registered that the Minister of Justice is busy. Last January, I was able to read in my newspaper, Telemarksavias, that elderly people are not reported, and that there are poor systems and routines in home care to report selected against the elderly. This is a challenge that needs action. We also have a number material that shows that 4-6 pst. Among the elderly in Norway, they are subjected to assaults every year, both in their home and in their institution. Here, measures to develop local action plans are very important, and I am also very happy to continue with the national contact phone Vern for the elderly in the action plan, and I hope this will be a permanent scheme. I believe that the aid and response apparatus can be more transparent and can be better coordinated. We need to work on finding the best solutions for those who need help. We have family protection offices, child protection, we have child and youth psychiatry, Alternatives to Violence, and we have crisis centers. They do a good job, but can this be better coordinated? Alternatives to Violence include, for example: special competence for those who exercise power, but also for children who have been subjected to power, but do not have the capacity to take in as many children as they would like. We also get to the right that child and youth psychiatry does not have the responsibility or competence needed, while family protection, on the other hand, says that they can contribute more to the prevention work. This should be a very important area in the process of the upcoming crash message – who should do what, and prevent anyone from falling between two chairs. Crisis Center is now a municipal responsibility. They are important, and much has been done to strengthen them. As a member of the Workers' Party's election against power in close relationships, I have been in contact with a lot of the actors working on the field, and I also have a talk about adding to the various crisis centers. Some of the feedback we receive is that there needs to be a better link in the response chain, especially in relation to the rehabilitation phase, which is a new responsibility for crisis centres. An example is the lack of own rentals, which leads to more people bowing further in crisis centres than is necessary, and as seen, to postpone the re-establishment phase. It also shows in a way the complexity of policies, that this is also a very important issue, for example. social housing policy. Another response I have received is that the public sends out letters only in Norwegian, and we know that, among other things. several of those in crisis centre do not necessarily understand the language of the letter. In addition, I look forward to the evaluation of the implementation of the new crisis centre law, which I also believe must start rapidly. Finally, I would say that it is often said from the opposition that we are good at making plans and that we say a lot of fine words, but if the opposition is concerned about seeing, for example. at the turning point and the actions that are there are mostly implemented or in the course of implementation, and I am very confident that both the 2012 Action Plan and the big shots coming will be a very important highlight in the fight against violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2579	Thank you very much for putting an important theme on the agenda. Being able to live a life without power or fear we must be some if we are to be a human right. Powered in close relationships is actually not a private matter, but a social responsibility. All physical and psychological choices and threats between current and former family members and children who are witnesses to family power are also chosen in close relation. Criminal sex mutilation and coercion are on the same line. The government has put on the table several action plans on this – four in all – but have we come to work on this not happening? And what more can we do? There has been an increase in the use of crisis centres, both for women, men and children. And most types of crime have actually been a decline in, except for power in close relationships – there has been an increase. Of course, we can hope and believe that the increase is due to a greater openness on this topic, and that one therefore reports more often. But do we know that? We all have a responsibility when it comes to saying so. A lot of people talk about the former neighboring core ring that told us about different areas of our society. It's almost as one would wish that everyone had a so-called invisible neighboring ring that fits inside their house's four walls where power is exercised. But do we dare tell us about those we know, who may not be so good? Or do we dare to ask the whole tech? What if one says so and this is not true, or if you said so, does it lead to huge consequences for many? It's hard, but it should be easier. Many people here have mentioned older ones, which I am also very busy with. As a health care professional, I have just experienced a situation where someone suspects that someone is not doing well in a family. I was going to set up a health plan for an older lady and was in that context on a home visit. During the conversation, it was found that she strove with more than just what we had been told by the doctor, e.g. medical care and help for showering. When one dares to become acquainted with man and gain confidence, this often leads to one opening up. Obligatory in such a first conversation is a little different, including quality of life and social stimulation. I had already seen the bruises around the wrist, but I didn't draw any conclusions. When I went, I gave her my card and said that she could call if there was anything she was wondering about, and about the time we got back. But I didn't get it out of my mind. I knew that she had children, and that the one was unstable and struggling with drugs. I didn't calm down and called her again, this time to hear if it was okay that I talked to her supervisor about one of her challenges that we hadn't had to discuss, and take it further with him. It was all right. Then it came out during the conversation that there were several things here that might have been examined. The Health Act actually opens up for this. When I spoke to the parole officer, I asked if he had any suspicion that it was presumptuous against this woman. I said what I had observed, and if he had information that could explain this. He was very happy because he also had a suspicion, but only one suspicion. It was rare for her to be a doctor, and thus it was difficult to follow up. But I said we could try to approach the lady more, so we could get a hole in the city. This is a story that can be simplified very simply: the elderly lady was shortly after this put into hospital with heart problems, in a way fortunate for her. Several old fractures and injuries were found. She opened up and told her how she actually had it in her life. She lived in daily fear that the son would come, and she knew what it resulted in every time. She had kept it hidden from the rest of the family. We got it together with other family members so that she got a nursing home where the son could only come to visit with others in the family, and she got social relations with others. She flourished in a short time and got a good, worthy and safe life. Here was the health service that grabbed in, that saw something, that dared something and did something. What about all the others who don't have anyone to see them, who hears them, and who doesn't see how bad they are. We have to do something. Unfortunately, selected in close relationships are still tabbed. If one compares this with the mental one, which was also almost taboo a few years ago, but which has now been seen a little bit more on the agenda – fortunately – we must not give in. It doesn't have to be that we don't have the right to care because of fear. It's about preventing, at worst, a death.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2605	Thank you very much to the inter-pellant who is raising this on the agenda and giving us the opportunity to discuss several aspects of this issue, because this is an overall issue that requires many different solutions. And then I also want to thank the opposition that is impatient, I think it's good – I think it's important, and in this case we're all going to be impatient. But I believe that we and this government have reason to be proud of the efforts that have been made in this area. We have had many new children's homes, we have increased penalties, the aid system has expanded, there are family violence coordinators in the police, law enforcement of crisis centres, rape reception in all counties, and increased resources for more research and knowledge, we have expanded the system of compensation for victims of violence, we have arranged for several municipal action plans, we have strengthened the abolition obligation, and we have an emergency call for children and young people. There are very many measures implemented under this government with broad support in the United Kingdom. We're going to be proud of that, but we're not going to be satisfied yet. It is commendable by the representative Rui Skatten of the Progress Party to raise the issue with immigrant women, who are overrepresented at the crisis centres. But I think we should be careful to draw conclusions because we know that many of these women have very little networks, which means that the only place they actually have to go is the crisis centers, where ethnic Norwegian women often have bigger networks and elsewhere to turn to. Then we also know that one third of the immigrant women in crisis centres have been subjected to violence from an ethnic Norwegian man — so that attitudes affect the entire population. Just to underline it: a few years ago, Amnesty gave out a report with the name: Who cares? A report on men's attitudes to violence against women. There it came, among other things. to the point that younger men are consistently less concerned with male violence against women than older men are. It is alarming that younger men define violence against women as a private matter rather than a public social problem to a greater extent than the older generation does. Many young girls experience that the girlfriend is trying to control them, threats and control that can also develop into physical violence. And love violence, which more people have been involved in, is more widespread than we might think. A Danish report shows that 12 pst. by young girls and 5 pst. by young men, violence from their girlfriends has been perpetrated in the last year. There is no reason to believe that there is something very different here in Norway. I want to commend the preventive work of Reform – the Human Resource Centre in cooperation with the Oslo Crisis Centre, the Police and the Conflict Council. The experience of Reform suggests that many of those who have an adult-age problem of violence may already have started in their first relationship and have had a long period of mental anguish. The longer these violent acts go, and they are allowed to establish themselves and become a pattern, the longer it takes to change behavior. Young people who have participated in the work of Reform have requested a call offer, a low-threshold offer. I am therefore very pleased that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has granted 1 million. to reform so that they can work with attitude-creating and conversational opportunities for young people. The prevention of love violence will reduce the risk of violence later in life. These measures can last a lifetime and are a very, very good investment. According to NOVA, most sexual abuse occurs among young people who have a relationship with each other, or are in a girlfriend relationship. A study from NTNU in 2007 reveals frightening attitudes among young men in the area of rape. A third of the boys asked in the study agree with the claim that women report rape because they regret having sex. We need a sexual education that is not just about prevention and practical tips, but also about attitudes, self-security and ability to set their own limits. Right now, the project Week Sex, with the support of the government, is in progress at 470 schools for the time being. My call is for more schools to sign up for. It's free, good material, which you can also use for the rest of the year. We need School Norway, we need teachers with more knowledge to discover, but not least know what to do when you see the danger signals. This should also be taken into account in the comprehensive communication on the education of the welfare state, which is now under development. We need to gain more competence, more knowledge, across the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2628	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing this matter, about the so-called private violence that many people know is happening, but which is not going to talk so much about, and which is difficult to deal with. Unfortunately, violence in close relationships is still invisible in many places, and it is partially debatable. But we know how much health damage it causes, both physical and mental, and how big a social problem it is. When one in four women experiences violence or abuse, it's a big problem. When we know that in very many of these circumstances, there are children who are either exposed to violence or spectators to violence, there is cause for concern. Children have been a sub-reported group, and there has been very poor follow-up. I'm glad it's been focused on that in recent years. House noises, which previously meant that you traveled out and travelled back again, were debatable. Here we have taken action and taken action. I know about the project Violence in close relationships from Westfold, which has had good results. Since January 2010, the police in Vestfold have worked systematically. They have gone through each and every case that concerns the type of violence, and it turns out to be producing results. The operator is known, however, the examinations showed that more than 62 pst. of the cases ended with a waiver of the order. They have focused on what they can do further — follow-up of insults, what child protection should do, what kind of relief measures can be taken. That's why I believe in good training for the police, which is often the first place at the housewreck. Knowing what to look for, knowing what to do, is important. Experience that people with a close relationship use violence as a means of communication often leads to resignation and lack of action. Therefore, those who experience this need help as early as possible. The offer Alternative to Violence has been mentioned. I think it is important to be able to offer such offers. The problem and the challenge is that first you have to recognize that the problem is present or that you are already a violent person. Putting the topic on the agenda, as it was done here, is important. However, the more important is the follow-up of the human resources groups that come into contact with that kind of violence. Training of health professionals, teachers, schools, everyone dealing with kids is very necessary. Medical care, health care, regulars — they are the ones who can be the entrance gate, they are the ones who quickly discover it. They should be even better able to detect, ask and tore to grips, as the representative Reiertsen also mentioned. It should enter education on a much wider basis than it is today. The interpellant was in on it with mating relationships. I agree. But it's equally important where there are children present. Nor should we forget the old age that many people are exposed to, and the phone, which is also mentioned from here, that is under the control of Vern for the elderly. I think it's very important to keep having it. It is the burden of shame to be subjected to violence by their own children. It's awkward to take the first phone, but when you can be anonymous, maybe the first time, maybe the second time, maybe the tenth time, then maybe it becomes detached. It has to be evaluated, and I hope that the evaluation shows that this is a necessary thing. I would like to stress once again that competence, coordination of actions, which many have been involved here, are necessary. Health is once again an important factor. We've heard of little Christoffer from the pulpit here before. He never received any help, either from the hospital, from the school or from those who would see the abuse. That kind of thing we have to try to avoid in the future. The obligation to notify must be complied with. If not, it should have consequences. Again: Thanks to the interpellant. Again, thanks also to the Council of State, for I think that a good, thorough and thorough work is being done on violence in close relations, and an active political action is being taken on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2654	I must, like everyone else who has spoken here, thank the interpellant for putting such an important item on the agenda. I want to be a little personal from the pulpit here today. How did I meet the problem for the first time? Yes, with passivity. I heard it, I saw it through sad children's eyes and a woman who had it hurt. My inaction justified me with a hope that this will surely pass. It didn't go over it. The sad children's eyes were still there, the woman I had a hope of getting better, was still plagued by a great sorrow and a sadness at having a violent husband. Fortunately, to say it like that, the next time we heard the screams and the noise combined with a cry for help, we got enough. We didn't escape the house for peace, but we knocked on our neighbor's door to create peace, and told them in clear order that enough was enough, and that we couldn't tolerate this any longer – from passivity, from sitting and listening to things that happen, to telling the neighbors that we care. This is not a hero's story, but a everyday story. I think there are many who have met the violence in close relationships exactly the same way as I have. We have to care, not only as part of a public decision-making system where we have a responsibility to facilitate those who are subjected to violence, but also as fellow humans. Telling my story from the pulpit today is also a message that what is happening within the four walls of the house, is not a private affair. It's a responsibility we all have to take, although the first step can be well high. As a male representative in the National Assembly and from the Labour Party, I will take my responsibility. We have to talk about it, we have to act when we have to – we have to care. We are not many men who participate in this debate, perhaps a bit symptomatic. We should have been more, because our experience can also be an important contribution to doing something about this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2667	As a legislative authority, our penal code is the foremost tool to protect us as citizens of society from violence. Through it, we also have to responsible for those who commit violence, and we have to punish those who commit violence. In addition, we have police, prosecution authorities and courts that are responsible for this law. In total, this is a framework designed to safeguard human dignity in a free society and in a legal state. Then the question is, what about the invisible violence, the one we never see, the one that never reaches us, the screams we never hear, and what happens behind the closed doors? Because we know every day that the principles on which our law is based are violated, on which our society is founded, and then human dignity is violated by these invisible episodes, actions, and abuses. That is why the theme that the interpellant has raised today is also so important. Human violence against women requires special attention — challenging men, and not least raising young boys, not to take advantage of a physical takeover into violence or threats of violence, or to assume a position of power by means of it, while not losing focus on adult violence against children, women's violence against men, and violence against the elderly, which is mentioned here, and all other forms of violence. I would like to mention some important keywords that it is important to focus on in the further work to get even further into tackling the problem. Crisis centres have a key role and require special attention in the future. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that it was too early to include the crisis centres in the framework grant to the municipalities when it happened from last year's budget. But once it has happened, it requires special attention to ensure that the offer we have, not only is maintained under municipal responsibility, but is actually further developed and improved for all the groups it is intended to serve. Police play a key role in combating violence in close relations. It requires focus, priorities of the police, and it requires not least competence and awareness. We see that in parts of the country good results have been achieved by working purposefully. South-Trøndelag is an example where the police have done a special job and have shown amazing results. It is hoped that the police in different parts of the country will learn from those who have come the farthest to achieve good results. Competence in all parts of society that come under control of violence in close relationships, not least those who work with children and young people, is absolutely crucial. We must also be concerned with combating all forms of drug abuse in order to get further into the fight against the problem. Dialogue, communication and learning about conflict management in ways other than using physical power are crucial, not least for young people, young people and young people. Making the challenges visible in all areas is another important keyword. The Christoffer case is a good example. I don't think either of us should take on our high hat and say that we would have done so much better, but nevertheless, the matter is documented, and that requires that we learn from it – all as one. At last, it's a responsibility for all of us, as citizens, as neighbours, as colleagues at work, as friends and family, to take our responsibility, keep your eyes open and take care of each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2681	I want to thank for a very good and wide debate there so to say all the political parties on the Storting participated, also men, and I know many men are concerned about this. I just want to underline it. Violence in close relationships is particularly severe. Surroundings and relationships that would provide security and trust are marked by intrusions, insecurity and a breach of trust. Violence in close relationships can be anything from single events to long-term and extensive abuse. Both men and women are perpetrators of violence, and both men and women are subjected to violence. That's also why it was the theme of the interpellation. I could spend time now mentioning what I said in my main post – the representative André Oktay Dahl claimed that I just mentioned this in a confession. I think that is a considerable understatement. I spent time on it in my post, but women are more vulnerable than men to the most serious violence. For many, it is a matter of sustained mental and physical violence as part of a comprehensive regime of control and power. Therefore, it is still important to focus in particular on the violence of men against women. I am very pleased that the government is going to give an overall presentation of the experience that has been gained since the Women's Violence Committee presented its investigation in 2003, the Court of Justice of a non-violent life, and that there has been a big message about this in the course of the year. Many have mentioned violence against the elderly in the debate as something we need to focus more on. We also saw events in December where sons killed their mothers. So this is a theme we have to focus on and not forget. Some of the representatives of the Progress Party felt that this government has done too little. I would just like to underline the work done following the presentation of the Vending Point Action Plan, so the points in the Action Plan have been implemented or they are being implemented. It can be heard in the representatives that the number of women in crisis centres has risen sharply during this government, which is completely wrong. It's a stable number. But what's worrying is that the number of nights spent is rising. Finally, I would like to mention what the representative Sonja Mandt said about housewrecks. The missing police station has initiated measures where they take a round of houses and apartments where they know that something is going on and where they have received reports or concerns. That's what we should have more of. Thank you very much for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2700	I have received some specific questions, and will try to answer them. Only when it comes to the scope, I've got numbers from the state attorney. They show that the number of cases from 2009 to 2011 has evolved, from 1562 in 2009, 2036 in 2010 to 2192 reported cases in 2011. I think it's good to have mentioned these numbers. We're worried about hidden numbers, and I think with increased numbers we also see the detection of relationships that have previously been kept hidden. But as I said, we need to learn more about this. To Lise Christoffersen, I would like to inform you that the Department is working on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on violence against women and violence in close relations. Before we ratify, we will, as usual, make sure that Norwegian law is in conformity with the Convention obligations, and that any legislative changes have been made and entered into force. As far as Norway seems to meet the requirements of the Convention, but we still consider that it is desirable to introduce a separate provision on ‘stretching’ into the penal code. We have a consultation note, and we'll follow up with a proposition as soon as possible after that. When it comes to the question of the reverse alarm of violence and when it will be used, I am among the impatient. Here is a technical solution during work that meets the requirements for functionality. And as far as I've been informed, the administrative elements associated with this reverse-violent solution are fully developed and tested in a pilot project in Asker and Bærum, but as far as the alarm unit itself is concerned, it has not been possible to provide units that meet the requirements set by the Police Computer Service and the Police Directorate. You're working on solving this situation, and you're going to complete the project and get ready for the pilot start-up with real performers in the course of the year. So with this, I will once again praise the interpellant for raising an important topic, and thank you for the debate and good speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2713	The debate on substance is closed. So 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2837	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2850	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2862	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2870	In the course of the debate, two proposals were put forward, no. 1 and 2, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. In the course of the debate, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities adopted a number of amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government submit legislative proposals to open up the possibility of applying for compensation for victims of violence for children under 16, where the individual child is entitled to compensation under Norwegian law and where the perpetrator is a Norwegian national even if the criminal act took place abroad.’ The President proposes that this should be transmitted to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to bring forward legislative proposals to remove the ceiling on compensation for victims of violence for children under 16 years of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2925	During the debate Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr made a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on a wide-ranging police study, assessing the optimal use of society’s response capacities together.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2938	The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal. The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2955	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 5-8, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5-8, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up the necessary processes to set up its own special body for the investigation of sexual assaults, as well as the establishment of its own SO team in each police district. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary changes for an extended registration and verification upon arrival of asylum seekers so that the registration also includes DNA profiles that can be accessed by the police.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to open the door to place asylum seekers in closed reception.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make changes to the criminal law that make it criminal to commit criminal offences while having an asylum application for treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e2996	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate the necessary changes to the 2012 budget so that the police can act more visibly and bystander in all Norwegian cities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a review of criminal law relating to rape and other sexual infringements aimed at increasing the level of penalties, and to lower the threshold for the use of detention.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e3020	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is requesting immediate follow-up to the measures to combat the rape as outlined in NOU 2008:4, inter alia, through a concrete and time-bound phase-in plan for the measures.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to open up so that private, certified laboratories can assist the police with DNA analyses.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e3068	In the course of the debate, two proposals were put forward, no. 1 and 2, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for standards to be drawn up in common for all police districts for the evaluation of exceptional incidents in the police, with a description of the process, responsibilities and tasks.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Directorate of Police establishes a systematic practice of quality assurance of the evaluations and evaluation results and to ensure knowledge implementation in the light of the findings made.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e3088	The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposals. The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-07.ana.ud766e3101	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
