ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e94	The representative of Øyvind Waksdal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from 4 June to 8 June, and from the representative of the representative of Mr Ingarill Olsen on leave from 6 June to 8 June, from the representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to take part in the European Parliamentary Assembly in Paris from 4 June to 5 June in order to take part in the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the leave of the representative of Mr Karin S. Woldseth from 4 June to 7 June in order to take part in the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Labour Party on the leave of the representative of Mr Karin S. Woldseth from 4 June to 6 June in the presence of Mr Karin S. Woldseth from 4 June to 7 June in the deliberations of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia from 4 June to 7 June in the presence of the representative of Mr Torfinn. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Vest-Agder County, Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Henning Skumsvoll's leave on Monday 4 June, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For East Agder County: Line Vennesland and Åshild Karoline HauglandFor West Agder County: Kjell Ivar Larsen June 4th and Tor Sigbjørn Region June 5th until June 8th For Akershus County: Tone LiljerothFor Finnmark County: Willy PedersenFor Hordaland County: Torkil ÅlandFor Møre and Romsdal County: Steinar ReitenFor Nordland County: Knut Petter TorgersenFor Oslo: Karin Yrvin and Sylvi ListhaugFor Rogaland County: Laila Thorsen and Torstein Tvedt Solberg
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e231	Line Vennesland, Åshild Karoline Haugland, Kjell Ivar Larsen, Tone Liljeroth, Torkil Åmland, Steinar Reiten, Karin Yrvin, Sylvi Listhaug, Laila Thorsen and Torstein Tvedt Solberg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e237	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament this week — and consider it adopted. The President proposes to the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e247	The representative, Dagfinn Højbrätten, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e250	On behalf of the representatives Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Erling Sande, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to amend the Basic Law § 110b on the protection of food resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e255	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e271	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e280	The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has presented a major communication on the implementation of the Raw Fish Act and the Fisheries Exports Act in 2009 and 2010 and some issues from 2011. The background to the notification is that the Stortinge shall be regularly briefed on the implementation of the raw fish law. The notification states that the sales strike structure has not changed in the period since the previous notification. There are still five sales teams in the whitefish sector, as well as one in the pelagic sector. Sales have an increasing role to play by public authorities in a number of different areas. The Government points out in the Communication that it is important to pay attention to the issue of the continuous strengthening of the role of the sales teams as public administrators, but does not consider that the limits are exceeded at present for the level of the administrative authority of an organisation reserved for fishermen. In 2009, the trial project with a separate mediation body with two mediation names, one for white fish and one for pelagic fish, was evaluated. In order to follow-up the evaluation, the ministry decided to set up a working group to look at the experience gained from the trial system with the mediation body and an update of the law on raw fish according to the development of the sales strike system following the adoption of the law in 1951. The term of office of the working party has been limited by the fact that the main features of the sales strike system and the turnover monopoly are fixed. This implies that the minimum price for fish should still be fixed in the first hand and that this should therefore be a review of technical aspects of the raw fish law. The working group delivered its recommendations in its report on 26 October 2011. The report has been consulted and follow-up work is now under way. From the Red-Green parties, we meet the government's follow-up to this matter. On 1 January 2010, the EU introduced a system of catch certificates for the export of fish to prevent UUU fishing, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Exports from Norway have mostly gone without problems. In an international context, there is broad support for initiatives aimed at combating UUU activity. From the Norwegian side, it is working on the global harmonisation of possible requirements for the certification of catches in the case of imports of seafood, both in order to ensure the effectiveness of the measures in the fight against these fisheries and to contribute to the predictability of market access for Norwegian fish and fishery products. It is very important that there are no unnecessary barriers to trade in seafood imports. Sales teams have been increasingly responsible for resource control. The government has now identified the content and scope of the control work in the different sales teams, and this review of the control work carried out by the sales teams has revealed some considerable differences between the sales teams for control purposes. It is positive that, in the light of the evaluation currently carried out, the role of the sales teams in national resource control should be further addressed, both in the annual strategic risk assessment and by other means. The Council of Seafood Ministers is the joint marketing body of the seafood industry and changed the name of the Committee for Fish Export to Norway's Seafood Council AS on 1 January 2012. On the part of the government parties, I would like to add that we are impressed by the important work done by the Maritime Council. The Committee has had the pleasure of meeting representatives of the Seafood Council on a number of occasions, where the efforts in the various countries have been presented in a very good way. The communication by Stortinget today provides a good overview of the implementation of the raw fish law and the fish export law in 2009 and 2010. Norwegian seafood is one of our most important exports, next to oil and gas, and Norway is now exporting seafood to 140 countries worldwide. It is therefore important that the Storting show a great deal of attention to this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e312	For generations, the Norwegian fishing industry has played a major role in local communities along our coasts and in the well-being of the whole country. In particular, the fishing industry is an important valuer and an export industry of great importance to Norway. Norwegian maritime food exports amounted to 53 billion in 2011. kr, and of which the traditional fishing industry accounted for an export value of 22 billion. kr. Norway is now exporting seafood to 140 countries. Norwegian fisheries and seafood industries have all the prerequisites for maintaining the positive trend we see, provided that the industry will continue to ensure stable framework conditions in the future in order to maintain profitability and increase international market shares. Fishing resources must be managed in a long-term perspective. The importance of viable populations must be given to short-term nutritional reasons so that fish resources can continue to provide a basis for employment both at sea and on land. The Christian People's Party will point out here the important role of the Sales Act as the control body for the withdrawal of marine resources and the marketing of these resources. It must be perfectly clear that it is in the industry's own interest that these control functions are effectively and in accordance with the same principles within the scope of the different sales laws. We note with concern that this is not later to be the case today. The Christian People's Party expects more extensive work to be undertaken in order to bring about a coherent and coherent exercise of the control functions provided by the Sales Act. If it is also to involve checks on the kaikant as part of the regular routines, the Christian People's Party believes that it would be natural for the sales teams to be given the necessary means to carry out this work. The Deltakers Act and the Raw Fish Act are important pillars of fisheries policy. Since its inception, the Raw Fish Act has ensured good and stable prices for fish, but the sales strike system has also evolved to a large extent, and some aspects of the sales strike system have been questioned. In particular, the question of whether the scheme has sufficient legitimacy when it gives the fishing-riding sales laws the right to set unilaterally minimum prices which are binding on both the seller and the purchaser of fish first. The pilot project with a separate mediation body with two mediation teams, one for white fish and one for pelagic fish, entered into force on 1 January 2007. When evaluated, the report showed clear differences between the pelagic sector and the whitefish sector in the use of the mediation body. The evaluation also showed that the mediation body had a better anchoring on the buyer side than on the fishermen’s side, and that the mediation body had a better anchoring in the pelagic sector than in the whitefish sector. However, none of the operators on the fishing side, either in the pelagic sector or in the whitefish sector, wanted the testing system to continue. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the fish sales laws today have a good and constructive dialogue with the buyers about pricing. On 26 October 2011, a working group, which was to look at the evaluation of the trial project with mediation bodies, submitted proposals to replace the Raw Fish Act with a new law harmonised with the Marine Resource Act and the Participation Act. The Christian People's Party meets the Ministry's follow-up to that proposal with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e331	Unfortunately, it is not common for representatives from my part of the country to become involved in fisheries issues unless they should be part of the nutrition committee and have fisheries as their work area. In this way, it might be more legitimate for me to throw myself into it, with the background of experience from the last growing-up period. When I start with a complaint, it is because I believe that people in the north and west of the country should not have a monopoly on fisheries policy debates, even though the fishing industry is of far greater economic importance than that of Oslofjorden and Skagerrak. But there is also a fishing in these areas, and we have fishermen who feed on what the sea provides, and not least: they supply short-range food to the country's most populous area. That is why it is so important that we have sales links across the country that guarantee fishermen the provision for fish, and therefore also the income of fishermen. The Raw Fish Act and the Participation Act are the foundations of Norwegian fisheries legislation. When someone now wants to rock this law and replace the sales laws with other marketplaces, there is reason to respond. The sales teams, which by their very nature are cooperatives, have long been a tower in the eye of the Right and Advance Party. Now it is their ownership – with the support of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Association, they are calling for the liquidation of today’s ownership. In other words, FHL wants to sit on both sides of the table, and they have the right hand side support for it. The Right Party and the Advance Party go further than that. They simply believe that the sales laws should not be allowed to set the minimum price, which in consequence means that the raw fish law is being abolished. Nor is it surprising that the right-wing parties will separate the administrative and regulatory tasks of the sales teams, where the sales teams have undoubtedly contributed to better resource management, including in the fight against black fishing. I am also pleased that in the current year the control bodies focus on the black marketing of fish and crustaceans, and that cooperation between the Sales Act and the Regional Office of the Directorate for Fisheries will be strengthened and prioritised in this respect. It is in itself commendable that the right-wing parties are toning flags, so the voters know what they are waiting for if these parties were to win government power after the 2013 elections. Thus, in the case of a joint working group set up by the Ministry, which would look at the trial system with a mediation body and a technical update of the law on raw fish in relation to the sales system, it would extend its mandate to propose a real weakening of the law on raw fish, despite the fact that the ministry has explicitly stated that the main features of the sales battle system and the trading monopoly should be fixed. It worries me because one of the main principles of the law on raw fish, namely the fixing of minimum prices, is thus put into play. Today, the sales laws have the right to set unilateral minimum prices that become binding on both the seller and the purchaser of fish in the first hand. The working party's proposal states that, as a general rule, a minimum price should be fixed and that the minimum price should be fixed after negotiations between the fish sales team and the industry. I would probably be more comfortable with this recommendation on the concept of negotiation was replaced by discussions, but we may have the opportunity to come back to that. The working group’s report has now been at the hearing, and the Ministry is working on the follow-up to the hearing. I would therefore remind you that the Raw Fish Act has a historical significance for the coast and fishermen, and has served the industry and consumers until this day. It is well possible that a law dating back to 1951 should be renewed and harmonised – I will not oppose it – but the more important it is to protect the main principles of the raw fish law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e348	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the message, which in many ways provides a good overview of the historical facts. This is a document based on the Raw Fish Act and the Fish Exports Act for the period 2009–2010, so this is initially a few years back in time. This shows that Norwegian fishing industry is in good standing. It shows that it is an up-stream industry, a robust industry, and that it is a very serious and good industry. It is not that people from the north, the west or the inner Oslofjord should have a monopoly on talking about fisheries. I could imagine that every representative in this Chamber was engaged in fisheries policy, because it is one of the most important main sources of income for the nation of Norway. We're exporting seafood for over 50 billion dollars. kr. It seems to have gone down a little bit in the last six months, but we're well over 50 billion. SEK – 53,7 billion. kr was the export of Norwegian seafood one year ago. This is very important. It's an industry that has a significant growth potential if you give it the opportunity. The rapporteur has explained in an excellent way what is in the proposition, so I'm just going to do a couple of things. First to the representative Steinar Gullvåg: I suspect that the representative Gullvåg reads the comments that a certain man reads the Bible. The members of the Right and Advance Party write: ‘These members support the concerns raised in this letter of consultation’ — referring to the FHL and the NSL linked to the mediation body and the way in which it is done — ‘and asking the government to launch a broader review of the law on raw fish with a view to modernising and, in particular, to a stronger distinction between administrative and regulatory tasks’. No one has said that the sales teams should disappear, but one has to look at the size of the turnover and the mix between the regulatory and the market. When you can read in the message that you do not take with you the notion that, among other things, FHL and NSL joined the review of the mediation bodies and the working group related to the raw fish law, it is a very narrow mandate to look at the two points to narrow what this sample should look at. The more pleasant it is to be able to refer to the conclusion of the working group: ‘The Working Group proposes to replace today’s law on the marketing of raw fish with a new modern law harmonised with the Marine Resource Act and the Participation Act.’ [[rawfish law]] It is precisely the Progress Party and the Right that have asked time and time again in this Chamber that we should have this legislation modernised. Then it's time we went into the future and looked forward – not just looking back to 1951, but thinking about what could bring this industry into a new year with new dimensions and significant increases in export value. A lot of what's standing here is very good. I end up about it most of all. But we have a challenge associated with – as Steinar Gullvåg says – that one party sits on both sides of the table. No, that's not how it is. Norway’s sea wire is organised, to which reference is made when looking at the same type of organisation, by allowing the parties – all stakeholders – to participate on the owner’s side, not just on the one hand. When one party can sit and dictate a price, it's time for us to look at this. I look forward to the work that will now begin to modernise and improve harmonisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e373	The notification of the Raw Fish Act is important in many ways. Now it is also important because it launches the debate that will precede the announced maritime food communication. Prior to the message, the Council of State has dropped a number of samples to look at different things. We appreciate that very much in the right. It's important that you go into a field as large as this. In the Right we believe that it is also important to go into that kind of work with an open and wide mind. That's why we're not quite so satisfied when you narrow down the mandates of that kind of selection work to sharpen it, and to direct the work, so that you don't look at all the sides of such work. That is why we were not satisfied with restricting the mandate when looking at the law on raw fish: the mandate was reduced by saying that the minimum price institute should be the way it is. You could have been so generous that you asked for a further review. It may be a good question what the Minimum Price Institute, as it is in Norway today, does in view of our ability to obtain the best price in the market. Is it possible for the Minimum Price Institute, as it operates in Norway today, to contribute to restrictions and keep the market at a low price? I don't have the answer, but I think it's a good question, and it could be a natural part of such work. So to those who attack the Right and the Advance Party as soon as you mention the word «raw fish law». The party of progress can answer for itself. If you read the party program to the Right, it says that the raw fish law and the sales laws are a good market place – it is a market place that we recognise. So it's not like we're going to rage over the sales model. Nor is it the case that we should abolish the Raw Fish Act. I think we should be so frank in the debates that at least we are dealing with the party programmes on which the parties have voted. The fact that we are critical of a sample work cannot mean the same thing as that we are to be accused of raging something. Last week I attended the annual meeting of Norway’s Råfisklag in Tromsø. There was State Secretary Kristine Gramstad present. She pointed out the importance of taking a review of the Raw Fish Act now, so that it can be modernised so that it has legitimacy. That's the words she used. I assume the Secretary of State is also talking to the government's tongue. Then to the representative Steinar Gullvåg. I warmly welcome everyone in a fisheries debate. I also think it is important that we get old-fashioned opinions and debaters into such a debate, because then we can get a little air on old myths and old opinions that don't hold any more goals. It's not that the Right is going to destroy the Raw Fish Act, nor that we're going to take it away. We think it's important, but we think it'll be more important if we can modernise it so that it gets up to the new time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e386	The purpose of this Communication is to brief the Biggest on the implementation of the Raw Fish Act and the Fish Exports Act in the years 2009 and 2010, including providing the Stortinget with some key figures on the marketing and export of fish. The notification shall be submitted every two years. The notification gives an overview of the implementation of the two laws by mentioning matters that have been on the agenda during the period. Details related to exports and first-hand sales are given in the annual reports to the Norwegian Sea Mare wire, formerly the Fish Export Committee, and the fish sales teams, which are annexed to the notification. Although the notification mainly covers the years 2009 and 2010, some cases from 2011 have also been mentioned. A matter that has received a lot of attention is the work of the working group that has been subject to the Raw Fish Act. The working group delivered its recommendations in a report on 26 October 2011. In the report, the Working Party has produced a complete draft of a new and good law on fish sales and has given a thorough discussion of the challenges of the current minimum price system. The communication refers to the report with a neutral record of the mandate of the working group and the proposals put forward by the working group on the establishment of minimum prices, etc. There has been a lot of discussion about the minimum price in recent years, and I would like to welcome such discussions. At the same time, it is important to stress that the raw fish law as a framework for the sales strike systems is firm. This is downgraded in the government platform. The consultation of the report has been completed, and the department is now working to follow up the matter further. I will therefore return to Stortinget with the government's proposal at a later stage. Sales are playing an important role in several ways, not least in terms of resource control, where they are increasingly responsible. In view of the fact that the Innst Business Committee 213 S for 2009–2010 asked for an evaluation of the quality and use of resources in the control work of the sales teams, the Ministry has now analysed the content and scope of the control work in the various sales laws. The evaluation has been given relatively considerable space in the message. The review of the control work carried out by the sales teams partly reveals large differences in sales laws for the purpose of control. The Ministry assumes that the two largest sales teams have the best ability to control from available resources. The review shows that there is different ability and willingness to organise and exercise on-the-spot control. Ex-post documentary checks are an important element of control work, but the Ministry wants the sales teams to be more aware of physical checks on the quaikant. The smallest sales teams have little resources to fulfil their obligations under the Marine Resource Act, and the different sales teams fulfil their obligations differently. Although resource control is not the primary task of the sales teams, it has a very important role to play in the overall resource control work. The evaluation has revealed that sales teams have a greater potential to carry out resource control tasks than is currently being exploited. Better cooperation, both between the Directorate of Fisheries and the sales teams and between the sales teams themselves, is important both in order to maximise the use of resources and in order to make the best use of the information available in different systems. It is also important to ensure a level playing field between different districts. It will not be acceptable, either for the authorities or for the fishermen, that the level of control differs depending on the area in which the catch is landed. Against this background, the Ministry will continue to work on the role of sales laws in national resource control. The Committee for Fisheries has changed its name to Norway's sea wire AS on 1 January 2012. This was done because the company's activities have evolved since its establishment and the name of the Fish Export Committee did not clearly communicate the scope of the company. I consider the new name to be more comprehensive and satisfied with the change of name. In this context, I would also like to mention that, in order to simplify the legislation and strengthen the marketing of all species, the fee was harmonised at 7.5 per million as of 1 January 2010. As indicated in the notification, with effect from 1 January 2010, the EU introduced requirements for the catch certificate for exports of fish, etc. to the EU, with the aim of preventing illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. In an international context, there is broad support for initiatives that counteract UUU activity and the Ministry is working closely against the EU and other countries to ensure that the measures are effective, while not contributing to unnecessary barriers to trade for Norwegian exporters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e403	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e406	I have some questions for the marine food minister. The Communication refers to the proposal by the Working Party to replace the current law on the marketing of raw fish, the Raw Fish Act, with a new, modern law harmonised with the Sea Resource Act and the Participation Act. This has been achieved by the Working Party, which is not the Party of Advancement and the Right. How does the Council of State intend to follow up on these things – if you intend to follow them up? And when will the Storting possibly see the contours of a work related to this field? That's my first question. My next question is related to control. It is very important to have good control, but it is also very important to have good publicity in relation to the checks that are actually being carried out, and not to hide behind calling it an internal working document, and to require that a person closest to the court should walk the road to obtaining documents relating to controls that have been carried out. Will the Council of State contribute to the public awareness of these checks for those being checked before the notification is submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e415	As I said in my post, I will follow up the report of the working group through a case to Stortinget. In general, the working group is in agreement on the recommendations that you make. Modernisation is simply about harmonising legislation, incorporating new wording – a great many technicalities that are of course also important in the context of law enforcement. To put it this way: it's the simple part of the case. What is discussed – and that is interesting – is in an area that is likely to be the smallest part of the work of the sales teams. In general, it is the way to reach agreement through negotiations on minimum prices. There are only a few of the cases where the sales teams have used their veto rights. We're going to have to get back to that. I am concerned that we have a system that ensures both the buyer and the fisherman side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e423	With regard to what the Council of State says, agreement through negotiation, it is enough that some people feel that they are in ‘debate’ – and that is probably the right concept. There are probably not real negotiations; you are in discussion, and then you go into a room and decide a price. It's also true, as the Council of State says, that it's not always very conflicty, but sometimes it is. I want to go back a little bit to the work that the sample has done. At that annual meeting of the Råfisk Team in Tromsø, State Secretary Gramstad was present. She said that she supported the selection work that had been done, and that modernisation of the law was necessary to bring legitimacy to the law. Does the Council support the opinion of the State Secretary regarding her view on this matter? Is it important that we get a modernisation of the law in order for the law and institutions to have legitimacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e430	It is no surprise that I support my State Secretary – of course I do. This is an important work, as I say, because the raw fish law is of old age and there are new laws, so having the technical review, which does not contain a lot of politics, and that it is actually recognizable in the other law we have, is important. It has gone through in a very good way in the working group. So to what is related to legitimacy. One is the technical part of it; the other is the political part. Then we are left in a discussion about minimum prices, and the representative, Bakke-Jensen, of course, is right in saying that it's called 'debate'. In reality, they are sitting around a table and discussing – at least you can call it – and they essentially agree. There's a few of the cases where they don't agree. So the debate and its scope are not entirely in line with the challenges of today's minimum prices. But anyway, I think we need to go through it thoroughly to see that we have a system that both the land and the sea sides agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e439	At least it is nice that the Minister for Maritime Food agrees with his Secretary of State. In a moment, the representatives here in the Chamber may change their minds and come to the same recognition. The reason I took the floor again was that I wanted the Council of State to answer my last question in the line change instead, which is linked to when there have been checks on a company and it is believed to reveal irregularities in that control. So you're going back to the office, you're going to have a review, and you're going to draw up a document that you either want to add or send to the prosecution authority. Now it is very rare for the companies concerned to be able to give an opinion on what the control body has come up with. It is said that this is an internal working document with the exception of public access, and that this means that the court must be given the right to have access to the document. Does the Council of State think this is a good procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e446	I will also answer that question. But let me first say that I think there is a great deal of agreement – not just among the red-greens, but along the whole coast – that the sales strike system, the fact that we have a raw fish law, is good. It is important to have a forward-looking raw fish law. I think the Progress Party will see that if someone tries to tangle with it, it's going to be trouble. So it was good that it was clear that it was not like that. Because it could be read like that. At least when it comes to controlling enterprises, there are different issues. Enterprises will always be briefed on matters when there is a notification, and there will be an investigation, in the right order. It might take some time, but if we don't want to play the evidence, we have to follow the systems we have, that they won't be able to see if it's going to be a review. But if there is a presentation – it is not called a presentation when it is made from the sales teams – the companies will of course be familiar with it and have the opportunity to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e453	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e458	The Raw Fish Act is a very important law for Norwegian fishermen. On the coast it is called the fisherman's constitution. The law made the fishermen not only dependent on the pricing of the buyers, as was the case in the past. The historical element of the Raw Fish Act cannot, and should not, be underestimated. It made fishermen equal partners with buyers. I record that the notification suggests an adjustment, modification or modernisation of the raw fish law. I want to use another word, a weakening of Norwegian fishermen's rights could be the result. The right pricing of fishermen is not a one-sided dictatorship, a concept that some people use. We have seen that the raw fish layer has reduced the price on several occasions, to a great extent irritating Norwegian fishermen – for whom will it be paid? These price adjustments show that the market is functioning and that pricing follows this. The buyers have their weapon if they believe the price is too high. They may not be buying. A change in the Raw Fish Act could weaken Norwegian fishermen, which I would warn against. This is an industry that brings great values to the country. It is not subsidised, it does not need to be regulated further, and a change in the law must lead to simplification and improved conditions for Norwegian fishermen. It serves the industry, it serves the quality of the products, and it serves Norway. Finally, Frank Bakke-Jensen comments and characterises Steinar Gullvåg's defence of the Raw Fish Act as old-fashioned attitudes. I would suggest that a vocabulary such as the modernisation of the raw fish law can – not necessarily – camouflage major changes that are not positive for Norwegian fishermen. We're going to take care of this. The changes in the law on raw fish must improve the law, not weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e469	I noticed that the representative Nesvik thought that I read the Bible as a certain man did. And to put it that way, there might be every reason when you're dealing with the Right Party and the Advance Party. It is then necessary to ask these parties a few questions about what they really think in their position, when they first complain about the limitations of the working group's mandate and then say: ‘The constraints arising here from the mandate of the working group mean that there was no opportunity to address the more market-economy challenges posed by this system. Rather, the mandate made it possible to look at other trading and settlement models related to first-hand turnover.» If this does not mean that these parties want to assess solutions other than those contained in today's raw fish law, it may be that I have read incorrectly, but I would think that this is a fairly precise representation of what is the policy of these parties in relation to the raw fish law. Then I think that the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen in particular confirms my assumptions, namely that the Right Party and the Advance Party want to play the Minimum Price Institute. Then I want to ask the two parties about the following: Is it so, or is it not so, that the Right Party and the Advance Party support FHL's claim for changed ownership in the sales laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e483	When I started by referring to the sample work that has been done, it was because it is important to have done thorough work in advance of the seafood message that comes. The principle of trying to limit the mandate to such a sample is that if you are going to do a thorough job, you should go as far as possible in advance, and then it should be fully possible for politicians in retrospect to choose what kind of solutions and models to look at. But at first limiting what kind of knowledge to have, what to look for, we in the Right think is wrong in that work. Then it is that when the matter comes to Stortinget, the government will have made various proposals. Then we can take the debate on what the Right wants. For the time being, the representative of Gullvåg and others can read the Right Resize Options program. Then you can jump around with scare pictures as much as you like. But the only thing we've asked for in advance of a measles report is that we're going to take it so seriously that we're going to turn every stone and bring as much knowledge as possible to the political debate we're going to have. Then I am aware that Gullvåg has been in politics for a long time, and probably has worked up a lot of freezes on my back because of politics Right has delivered. I'm not going to comment on that. In this case, however, we have simply asked that you gather as much knowledge and turn as many stones as possible before you promote an adjustment. That was the restriction that the Council of State introduced into the mandate – that was the restriction that the Council of State specified in the mandate. That's what we found reason to say was regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e492	Just to clarify a little bit for the representative Steinar Gullvåg: what the Advance Party and the Right write in their comments is to ask the government to do ‘a broader review of the Raw Fish Act with a view to modernisation and not least a stronger distinction between the administrative and regulatory tasks attached to the Sales Act’. That's the piece that's very important. Then you can point out that the parties are discussing price – that's right. But the matter is that if the parties do not reach an agreement within today's system, it is up to the sales team to determine the price. Then it's not negotiations. Then there are discussions that take place over the table, but one party – and everyone knows that – always sits with the joker: if we don't agree, we put the joker on the table – that's what it is! That's the system you have to look at and get a broader review of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e504	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e518	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the main speakers of the batches and up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e527	Prop. 70 L for 2011–2012 deals with changes in three different laws. In simple terms, the laws are referred to as the participant law, the marine resource law and the Finnish law. The proposition has its background in the fact that the Stortinge during the work of the Finnish State Law, which regulates the ownership of property in Finnland, also decided to ask: ‘The Government shall, as soon as possible, carry out an investigation into the rights of Samer and others to fish in the sea outside Finnland, including the minimum quota for boats below 10 metres, and shall promote a follow-up to this for Stortinget’. The follow-up matter is what we have been presented here. Following the recommendation of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Fisheries, the Coastal Fisheries Committee for Finnmark was appointed at kgl. Resolution of 30 June 2006. The committee presented a unanimous opinion on 18 February 2008, NOU 2008: 5. The selection concludes that people living on the fjords and along the coast of Finnmark, on the basis of historical use and international law, have the right to fish in the sea outside Finnmark for their own consumption and feeding. Following the submission of the inquiry, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has had the proposals of the Coastal Fisheries Committee at consultation and consultation with the Sameting on the interpretation of the legal basis and various proposals for action. In May 2011, the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Council of Consensus agreed on a set of proposals for action, although there is a different interpretation and understanding of the legal issues. The majority of Sametinget approved the measures in its plenary session on 9 June 2011, subject to a different understanding of the legal basis. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coast does not agree with the conclusions of the Committee on Coastal Fisheries. The Ministry also argues that the current rules on regulation and participation in fisheries are in line with the obligations of international law towards communities as minorities and communities as indigenous peoples. In the right, we believe that the proposition is important to provide answers and clarifications to open questions raised by the Coastal Fisheries Committee. We believe that unresolved rights issues are a disadvantage to a competitive industry such as fisheries, and therefore believe that this proposition provides clear clarifications for the fishing fleet. We believe that the fishing rights are national and are therefore to be managed nationally. It is an important point that for decades values have been created along the coast in the various seasonal fisheries. Limiting the ability of fishermen to exploit the entire coast will be a step backwards and a great burden both for the fishing fleet and for the many workplaces in the fishing industry. In the right, we therefore share the view of the Advocate-General that the rights are adequately covered by today's legislation. We record that the government considers the applicable rules to be in line with the international obligations towards the community as a minority and indigenous people. The right considers that clarification is sufficient and therefore runs counter to some of the amendments to Law No 26 March 1999. 15 on the right to fish and catch. We believe that the clarification of the relationship with international law in Section 1 is necessary, but goes against new Section 21 third paragraph. The right again records that the government believes that the applicable rules are in line with the international obligations towards the community as a minority and indigenous people. This assessment is supported by the right and therefore finds it both strange and completely unnecessary that later in the proposal it is said that unresolved questions about fishing rights should be decided by the Finnish National Fisheries Commission. I do not believe that it is in any way within the mandate of this Commission to interpret legislation in this field. This issue was discussed when the Stortinget dealt with the Finnish law, and only the Finnish law was applicable to the marabou. This is a constraint there was a great deal of agreement about, and a constraint still supports. The right therefore opposes the amendments to Section 29 of the Finnish Law. Any right requirement for collective or individual rights to fishing grounds in the maritime and fjord areas of Finnmark is a matter for the ordinary judiciary and not the Finnish State Commission. Policies also show that the Finnish Commission has more than enough to do. This proposal can therefore – a little ugly, perhaps – be interpreted as being more designed by the government to buy out time and to create the impression that something is being done than to promote constructive amendments. The right considers that, in order to ensure legal certainty, the type of questions should go through the ordinary judicial system and not be entrusted to the Finnish Marks Commission. The right also records the proposal to exclude fishing vessels from certain areas with a boat size background. It's a strange management principle. We have managed the fishing areas in this way that we have said that for the sake of the population we are not using that tool or we are shutting down the whole field for fishing. But shutting down some areas only with a boat size background is a strange principle. A boat of 14.5 meters that ruddered with a spin, is therefore just as effective as a boat of 15.5 meters that ruddered with a spin, if it would be a problem to calm down with a spin in the area. Here you create a strange management system that we can't see serving purpose. We therefore oppose changes in boat size within the fjord line. Then I see that the time is running out, so I have to be allowed to come back in a later article with clarifications regarding the three other proposals. I'm going to deal with the proposals that are in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e556	The President has not recorded that there are any suggestions in the proposition, beyond the setting, which will be automatically processed. In that case, it must be clarified during the further debate whether there should be further proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e559	That's probably what the president says.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e564	Then everything that is to be added over is taken up. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e569	The right considers that the proposals for establishing fjord fish topics are not sufficiently justified, measured against the disadvantages that this would entail, including: increased bureaucracy. The background for establishing the fjord fish is that the department sees it as a strength for the fisheries management with such an advisory body. This is very well explained in the proposition. There are no plans for the denominator to have its own administration, but it shall make use of the competences such as: is located in the Regional Offices of the Directorate for Fisheries. What kind of disadvantage is the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen aiming at when it is not put up for increased bureaucracy, and is Right on a general basis against the authorities obtaining advice on local conditions, practical challenges in fishing, or is it only in this case, dealing with Sami matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e578	In general, the right is against increased red tape and, in particular, when there is no very good justification for increasing red tape. The fjord fish topic, as described here, has almost no tasks; you have to look at tasks later. It should have a slightly strange composition of the representatives of the three counties plus two representatives from the Sametinget, it is suggested. The right cannot see that we are currently lacking knowledge in managing fish stocks and fishing rights. We actually think we repeatedly show that, measured against other nations, we are very good at managing our fish stocks. That's why we can't see that there's a good reason in the proposition to create what's referred to as a fjord fish subject. I also want to end my point here with that it is not very well described what the problems of this denominator should be. This is something you might want to consider later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e585	The matter we are dealing with today is a very important matter for the people of Finnmark, and then very important for those who live along our coast and in our fjords. It's about the right to the fishing resources, which are literally outside their tenants. How can the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen, as a representative from Finnmark, defend his refusal to legislate for fishing for all those who live in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e592	I actually believe that you already have that right, because you have the right to fish. You have the right to fish when you live along the coast, in a coastal municipality or in a neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality. The questions have been clarified. The first thing you concluded with in the Smith Committee was that you can't separate on an ethnic basis. This is when we talk about coastal rights – a right for the coastal population to fish and feed on fisheries. You have that court today. It is the representative Simensen free to go home to Alta and buy a jack, go out to sea, fish, come back and deliver the fish and make money on it. So a special right for Finnmark plus Nord-Troms plus some municipalities in the Nordic countries sounds completely strange when we have generations of tradition of using the whole coast and the seasonal fisheries as we have done. That right is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e597	Then I'm a little bit anxious to discuss how a party like the Right who, in every possible context, tries to present itself as a defender of local democracy, and at the same time goes against the fjord fish issue, which is just going to bring decisions and influence closer to them. In this case, it's the population of your own home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e603	Here the Simensen has rooted far on the fjord, to use such a term. The reason for a fjord fish topic, that it strengthens local democracy, is to turn everything upside down. Increasing bureaucracy requires far from constantly strengthening local democracy. So here we are proposing a denominator. You don't say anything about what the denominator is going to do. You say a little bit about who's going to be there. A strange principle is introduced in relation to boat size and not in relation to the traditional fisheries that have been there. So you don't have to take care of the stock, but you have to regulate according to the size of the boat. You break a good deal of the principles you've had in the past, and I can't in any way see that you're here proving that you're strengthening local democracy. On the contrary, I would argue that such an entity, which is to be an advisory body, will weaken local democracy and weaken the ability of fishermen to participate in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e612	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e615	The follow-up to the Coastal Fisheries Committee has been a long and thorough process. The Labour Party is very pleased that Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs Lisbeth Berg-Hansen took action, so that today in the United Kingdom we can deal with the proposals in this bill. A number of consultations have been carried out over several years with the Sameting, which, in turn, led to agreement on 1 May 2011 between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Region and the Sametinge on a set of legislative changes in the Participant Act, the Marine Resource Act and the Finnish State Law. At the same time, it was agreed that there is a different understanding of the extent to which international obligations extend in fisheries matters. The Labour Party believes that it has been wise and right to use the consultations to discuss solutions and raise its eyes on the individual conflicts of principle, and that it is also important to look at the challenges of districts in the far north. The proposals are motivated by a desire to preserve and strengthen small but important fishing communities within the scope, both as a regional policy instrument and to ensure that fisheries regulations are also clear for the future within the framework of international law. The proposition suggests that the State does not agree with the Coastal Fisheries Committee’s assessment that there is a specific right to fish for the Finnmark population. It is also considered that the applicable fisheries management is in line with the international obligations to co-operate as indigenous peoples. The Workers' Party supports the government's conclusion. The central element of the proposal is that the right to fish – under certain conditions – for all residents of Finnmark, Nord-Troms and areas of Troms and Nordland that have had a seasamic settlement over a certain period of time is still regulated. An additional quota is proposed to be set off from the top of the cod quota before allocation. The proposal to open up a fjord fish issue will help to strengthen local involvement in fisheries management. Further work shall be carried out on the assessment of the responsibilities referred to therein. Both issues relating to the allocation of additional allowances and rules relating to fjord lines, where appropriate exceptions there, may be such issues as can be discussed and commented on. The working party believes that these measures provide a real opportunity to operate and develop traditional fishing for all those living in this scope. The legal consequences of the proposals are that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry of Fisheries has been prevented from implementing a complete closure of fishing for cod, hay and sein in the scope without altering the law. The other proposals mainly focus on clarifying international obligations to co-operators as indigenous peoples and minorities in today's legislation. In addition, it is proposed that requirements for the recognition of exclusive or preferential rights for fishing grounds may be submitted to the Finnmark Commission, which, through this amendment, will have the necessary legal basis. Any existence of such rights cannot be excluded. Such clarifications are important and there should be a simpler way for those fishermen who can prove such a requirement than to go to the Court of Justice. In this room, most parties agree that simplification measures are important at all levels of administration. I am surprised that the Right and Christian People's Party is opposed to this simplification measure in this case. In order to facilitate the exploitation of local resources by fishermen, it is proposed to introduce a ban on fishing within the fjord line for vessels over 15 metres, with derogations. The working party notes that this measure is one of the most controversial but agrees that it is important to ensure that the smallest vessels are able to fish their quotas in the fjords without competition from larger and more efficient vessels in local stock fishing. In addition, the proposal will also make an important contribution to further strengthening coastal cod protection. It opens up the possibility of a derogation from this ban, as I said. It has been considered that these proposals will have a positive impact on fishing activity, nutrient development and settlement in the areas covered by the scheme. Many communities in these areas are among the most vulnerable to both resource fluctuations and economic recessions, and a statutory right to fish will create a safer framework to bet on fishing as a way of life, alone or in combination with other activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e644	Now we have heard both the representative Simensen and the representative Lillian Hansen refer to the fjord fish topic and that it is important for local democracy – yes, it has even been simplified. Then it is interesting to ask the representative Lillian Hansen: why should this measure only apply to Finnmark, Nord-Troms and Nordland? If this is both simplification and local democracy, why stop there? Why don't you take the rest of the coast? Or is it that the representative Lillian Hansen believes that fishing belongs only to the three northern states? For example: Her own county, of course, will only be part of what can point to former maritime settlement. So there you have to have free access to fishing, while others are not supposed to be able to do it. There are some flaws in the logic here, and I hope that the representative Lillian Hansen will be able to clarify: Why the fjord fish subject only in Northland, Troms and Finnmark and not in the rest of the country, if this is simplification and better local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e649	Now this is the matter we are dealing with here today, and the background to establishing a fjord fish topic is that the department sees it as a strength for these areas and for the fisheries management with such an advisory body. The background for this is it's explained very well in the proposition, and I think it's properly explained also in my post why we want such a fjord fish subject. There are no plans for this denominator, as I said, to have its own administration. It shall use the competence of the Regional Offices of the Fisheries Directorate today. So this is a case that deals with the proposition we're dealing with today, and no other matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e654	When the representative Lillian Hansen is in his own home state and meets fishermen, I know that she often comes into discussion about structure. Often, the debate on structure is about the fact that it is an unfair system today. There are some fishermen who have more rights than others, depending on when they got into the structural system, and this is a political difference. The representative Hansen is familiar with the problem and knows what the fishermen think about it. So we know that her county has the largest part of the coastal fleet on boats around 14 to 15 meters that rudder with different tools. So now there is a proposal to discriminate on the basis of boat size. If you fish on the island of South Island, for example, and you have bad weather, you can go inside if the boat is 14,5 meters, but not if it's over 15 meters. Does the representative Lillian Hansen think this is a simplification act that fishermen can feel about?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e659	I explained our views on this matter. It is about facilitating the exploitation of local resources by fishermen, and it is proposed to introduce a ban on fishing within the fjord lines for vessels over 15 metres but with the possibility of derogations. Yes, the Labour Party notes that this proposal is controversial, but we agree that it is important to ensure that the smallest vessels are able to fish their quotas in this way without competition from larger and more efficient vessels in the fisheries of local populations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e666	I'm going to give the representative Lillian Hansen the opportunity to answer the question that I asked instead. Firstly, it says in the proposition that the government can create a fjord fish topic. It doesn't say that you create it, but it says that you can create it, that's what the proposition says. That's the one. The representative Lillian Hansen said in his reply to me instead that it is in the matter that we are now dealing with, that one is in favour of a fjord fish subject in Finnmark, Troms and Nordland. Then it's natural to ask if we can expect the government to come back to the rest of the country. I expect that when the representative Lillian Hansen gives it the answer and at the same time points out simplification and increased local democracy, it must – in particular on local democracy – be something to be agreed upon for the benefit of the entire country, not just the three northernmost states. My question to the representative Lillian Hansen is this: Will you come back with fjord fish subjects all over the coast, even in Inner Oslofjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e677	As of now I have not registered that there are some issues about exactly what the representative Nesvik is asking for. What is most important now is that what underpins the proposals that are here today will have a positive impact on fishing activity and the development of nutrition around the scope that we are now talking about. Many communities in these areas are among the most vulnerable to both resource fluctuations and economic recessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e684	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e688	The proposition that we're dealing with gives us a lot of clarifications. It also sets down a number of posts, and a number of issues have been discussed which seem to have been important in view of the debate that has taken place locally in Finnmark, Troms and parts of Nordland. This is about whether special rights should be granted to a group of people based on ethnicity. Because that is what we have to take into account when this proposal only regulates the three northernmost states. What you’re proposing — in particular related to the fjord fish issue, which has been dealt with by a number of stakeholders during the succession — is precisely the consultation and the ability to appoint members from the Sameting to do so. I will refer you to the hearing that has been in the nutrition committee on this matter. In this respect, Norway’s Fiskarlag was very clear in its feedback. In the consultation with the Committee, the Norwegian Fisheries Team stated that the whole proposition should be abandoned: there was no need to go along with the changes made by the government in order to have a different situation along the coast. It works well today. You have the tools you have. When some try to point out that local democracy will be strengthened as a result of a fjord fish issue, it is with respect that it is not reported properly. The fjord fish subjects will be purely consultative bodies. There will be no decisive national authority. Our fishing resources are national resources to be managed nationally. All along the coast, whether you live in a coastal municipality or you are a neighbour of a coastal municipality, have the right to fish. That's the way it has to keep going. Then it can't be that we say one thing in one part of the country, while others get different rules. When you are also concerned with regulating according to boat size, you have clear and good regulations about it today. In addition, it is not the case when restrictions are placed on fishing, that what local actors say is not heard. There is every opportunity to make comments, and if the Directorate of Fisheries or others come with restrictions, you will be heard in their local offices. The Progress Party has a fundamental position on this matter. The Progress Party believes that our fishing resources are national resources and are to be managed in this way. Today's management system works, with some challenges, but it has nothing to do with this. Nor do we want to grant special rights to one part of the country. Why should this be done in the case of Finnmark, while for example: Nord-Trøndelag, Møre and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland or Rogaland for that matter and those who have had a historic fishing there, such as the put a halt under herring fisheries, is not mentioned in this proposition in respect of rights. No, this applies only to one type of fish, to one group of people — the ethnic Sami population. Therefore, in line with the recommendations of the Norwegian Fisheries Team in the consultation to the Committee, the Progress Party will vote against the entire proposal, given that the fisheries resources are national resources and will be managed accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e707	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e710	The Progress Party is not on a general basis to grant special rights to the coastal Sami population, it is said. Internationally, we know that indigenous peoples and communities, e.g. in New Zealand, Chile and Alaska, special rights have been granted to exploit wild marine resources in the exercise of fishing activities. This is described very well in the proposition. Does this mean that the Progress Party is so principled that they do not recognise the decisions of other countries that there are special rights in their country for their indigenous peoples or individual communities? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e717	The Progress Party believes – possibly the representative Lillian Hansen believes otherwise – that we cannot implement the laws of all countries of the world. Then we should have the fun here – whether it's land with dictatorial rule, or other countries. I expect that the representative Lillian Hansen is also of the opinion that we are dealing with Norwegian legislation and Norwegian laws and regulations, and not with what other countries have done. Otherwise, Norway’s laws may eventually become relatively thick. The point of progress is clear in this matter: in the case of fisheries resources, they are national. We're going to calculate withdrawals from fishing resources, not from which municipality you live, not from what ethnic origin you have, but from what biomass you can extract from the individual populations. Only in this way will we have good fisheries management. That's the way we have to do it, and then we can't start with all of these weird things.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e724	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e727	This case concerns the follow-up of the Coastal Fisheries Selection. The task of the selection was, in principle, to allocate Samar and others their right to fish in the sea outside Finnmark. The Joint Court Committee has also delivered its opinion on this issue on the basis of international law. The coastal fisheries selection did a huge amount of work, and it has been a long and thorough process after the selection has been set. The government has carried out broad hearings, such as: include hearings with county councils and municipalities in the area concerned. Since 2009, the government has conducted consultations with the Sameting on measures to follow up the intentions of the Coastal Fisheries Selection. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach agreement on the basic legal understanding of the issue, but SV is very pleased that there is now agreement between the government and the Consetation on the concrete measures that are being put forward in this matter today. The aim of these measures is to maintain coastal culture in the Sámi regions. It is important to ensure activity and business in the coastal areas where the sea marshes live. The Government proposes several measures to improve the conditions of the smallest coastal fleet, thus strengthening local communities in the areas concerned. One of the key actions is an additional quota for cod in the open group of the areas concerned. This year, this quota is 3000 tonnes. Furthermore, it is proposed to prohibit fishing within the fjord line for vessels over 15 metres. This action will make it easier for the smallest fleet to fish their quotas. It is important to facilitate coastal fishing, which has been of great value to the exposed coastal and fjord communities in the north. The government also proposes to create a fjord fish topic for Finnmark, Troms and Nordland. Furthermore, a process has been set up to establish a framework agreement between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department and the Sameting on consultations on fisheries matters. These are measures that facilitate a broad anchoring of the management of coastal resources, something that SV is very pleased about. The government assumes that today's fisheries management is in line with international law. However, the government proposes several measures to strengthen the rights of coastal communities with coastal Sami tradition. There are many territorial, cultural and social reasons to facilitate the further development of these communities. SV is pleased that we can now put in place measures to facilitate the maintenance and further development of small coastal communities. With the measures put forward in this case, the government facilitates that the administration will also be clear for the future within the framework of international law. It is in line with the intentions of the Coastal Fisheries Selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e748	The follow-up to the Coastal Fisheries Committee has been a long and thorough process. The aim of this proposition is to implement measures to ensure that the management system will remain clear for the future, even within the framework of international law, which can help to preserve and strengthen small, but important, fishing communities within the scope – both as a regional policy instrument and to ensure that fisheries regulation is also in the future within the framework of international law. In this process, consultations were held with the Sametinget in 2009, 2010 and 2011 to discuss the scope of the issue. The consultations led to agreement between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry and the Council of Consensus on a set of measures and legislative changes. It is also true that there is a consensus that there is a different understanding of international law. The majority of the merger has joined the measures without prejudice to different interpretations of the legal basis. The Government assumes that the applicable rules on regulation and participation in fisheries are in line with the international obligations of the State towards minorities and indigenous peoples, and the Centre Party agrees to this. This has been assessed several times since 1990, and various measures have been put in place over time to facilitate maritime examinations in order to strengthen the potential to preserve their culture and way of life and to contribute to the management of fisheries resources. The government therefore assumes that the applicable fisheries management is in line with the international obligations towards communities as indigenous peoples, but still proposes that a right to fishing be legislated – under certain conditions – for all those living in Finnmark, in the action zone of the Nord-Troms and other municipalities in Troms and Nordland who have had maritime settlements over a certain period of time. Such legislation is not necessary in the interests of international law. However, the government will legislate such a right to show the high value of coastal fishing for exposed coastal and fjord areas in the north. The centre party supports this, and sees it as positive that with this measure the government is taking action to ensure activity and housing, especially in North Troms and Finnmark, where most of the Sámi population live. The rationale for this is to ensure economic activity, culture and settlement in the Sámi region. In view of this, it is proposed to clarify Norway’s international obligations under the Maritime Resource Act and the Participant Act. It is also proposed to set aside an additional quota for open-group cod in the scope. In 2012, this quota is 3000 tonnes. This is done to facilitate the exploitation of local resources by fishermen. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a ban on fishing within the fjord line for vessels over 15 metres but with the possibility of derogations. Furthermore, it is proposed that requirements for the recognition of exclusive or preferential rights for fishing grounds, which are currently laid down by the Court of Justice, can now be laid down by the Finnmark Commission. The follow-up to the Coastal Fisheries Committee has been a long and thorough process — and there has been a great debate. The measures currently proposed shall help to ensure that the management system will continue to be clear for the future, within the framework of international law, which can help to preserve and strengthen small but important fishing communities within the scope.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e769	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e772	Unfortunately, we know that the biomass of individual fish stocks varies. During periods we have a lot of fish, and in other periods – when we have weaker classes of years – we have little fish. According to the representative Lange Nordahl now said in his statement – and it is also stated in the proposition – municipalities that have had older maritime settlements will have regulated free fishing. They shall have fishing rights. So the question is, if one comes in the situation that, for example, fish in a fjord are so threatened that fish resources become so small that you will have to reduce the biomass take-off – as we do, among other things. Have you seen the coastal cod – is it such that where you have a samite settlement, can you continue to fish, while all the reductions that you have to take in this fishing must be taken by others other than those who have not had a samian settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e781	Let me first say that the Center Party is committed to ensuring the possibilities of activity and settlement in Finnmark and North Troms, where most of the Sámi population live. That is why we support the measures that the government is now calling for, which relate to the statutory right to fish, which relate to additional quantities, and which also apply to the prohibition of fishing within the fjord line. When it comes to the question of Harald T. Nesvik, I would like to point out that we are known for having a very good management of fisheries resources. We've also taken that into account in the work we've done here. So until the amount you've set this year: you have to evaluate at what level it's going to be in the years to come. But we're assuming that we're going to have such good governance that we can take care of the intentions and the proposals contained in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e788	The representative does not answer my question, because no matter how good it is in fisheries management, there may be changes in the cycle that may lead to a decrease in biomass in some populations. In order to preserve the stocks, one actually has to do some regulatory grips – cf. Coastal cod, where one has that situation. If one goes to the representative Lange Nordahl's own county, Troms, then has a single place with former seasam settlement, while one in other municipalities has not had it. If one is to reduce fishing, as one sometimes has to: Does that mean that persons other than those coming from municipalities with maritime settlements have to reduce, but not those in the maritime municipalities? According to the law, they will still be able to fish freely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e796	The legislation currently in force will be applicable within the scope of the North Troms and Finnmarks and will apply within the scope of the SUF – Sami Development Fund. So that's going to be equal to the proposition that's based here. Then I would also like to say that it is clear that in the administration we now have, we are actually experiencing historical fishing. We're experiencing good conditions, and the picture that the representative Nesvik is now drawing from the situation along the coast, I don't remember. I see no reason for us to get into that situation in the future either. I have great faith in the administration we have, and the regime we've had for a long time. They've been cleaned up in a lot of areas, so we have a good fishing along the coast. We're still going to have that with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e803	It seems that the entire quota of three lines goes to the representative Nesvik – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e806	I'll follow up. I just have to ask the representative to try to get some insight into what she actually means. After this round of questions, I would like to ask the representative Lange Nordahl the following question: Does she agree with what she herself says – that this proposition is about giving fishing quotas on an ethnic basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e813	Proposition is very clear. The Government does not agree with the Coastal Fisheries Committee that, in the context of the rules on international law on indigenous peoples and historical uses, there is a right to fish for the Finnmark population. Nevertheless, when the government proposes to legislate on this right, it is linked to regional policy instruments in the areas of maritime settlement. There's a significant difference. I am absolutely sure that the representative Harald T. Nesvik has seen the difference. What we're concerned about is securing fishing resources as a national resource, while at the same time ensuring opportunities for activity and settlement in Finnmark and Nord-Troms and in other areas of the Sámi population. We're still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e818	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e821	The issue we are now debating is one that is complex and has many aspects in it. Among other things, it deals with the rights of indigenous peoples, the fishing rights attached to rural areas and the conditions under which the fishing industry operates, in order to mention something. It makes the matter challenging to work on, and it is obvious that the government has noticed it in its treatment of the Coastal Fisheries Commission's investigation. Let me first say that the Christian People's Party is pleased with the clarifications that have come through this proposition, as it is a disadvantage both for the population and the industry to have unresolved questions about fishing rights. The Government assumes that the applicable rules on regulation and participation in fisheries are in line with the international obligations of the State towards minorities and indigenous peoples. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate the maritime collections, so that they can strengthen the opportunities to preserve their culture and their way of life and the opportunities to participate in the management of fish resources. The Christian People’s Party therefore supports the establishment of a fjord fish topic to help strengthen local influence in fisheries management. We have noticed that there will be work on a framework agreement on consultations between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Sameting on fisheries issues, and that fjord fisheries tasks will be included in these talks. It is a procedure that the Christian People's Party will approve. The Christian People's Party also supports the government's assessment that the applicable rules are in line with the international obligations towards communities as minorities and indigenous peoples. We have therefore joined in the clarification of the relationship with international law in Section 1. As others have pointed out, fishing rights are national, and the Christian People's Party believes that it is a natural consequence that they should also be managed nationally. We have noticed that the Coastal Fisheries Committee has made several very controversial proposals, including: on an exclusive legal right to fish for fjords for the population of Finnmark and on its own regional managed fisheries management for coastal waters for up to four nautical miles along the Finnmark coast. The Christian People's Party believes that the ministry has concluded correctly when one has chosen not to follow these suggestions from the sample. Limiting fishing rights in Finnmark will not only undermine the conditions of the fishing industry, but could also prevent the most socially and environmentally sustainable use of resources. In addition, there is no doubt that this will have a major impact on the fishing fleet and the many jobs in the fishing industry. When the Coastal Fisheries Committee proposes that the exclusive right to fish for fjords should apply to all residents of Finnland, this is, in our opinion, becoming more a general regional policy measure than an action to strengthen the Sámi culture. The Christian People's Party will strongly warn against measures that could be seen as a fragmentation and regionalisation of fisheries management. Nor does the Christian People's Party support the amendment that will exclude fishing vessels from certain areas with a boat-size background. Such a change will introduce a completely new principle into the management, so that it is no longer solely the type of gear or the stock of fish that is essential for the limitations, but that a vessel-size-only one can be excluded from the area. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the regulation, as it has worked to date, has been sufficient, and we have not found any grounds to suggest that the new regulation will lead to more sustainable management of fishing resources. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the clarification in Section 1 on the relationship to international law, and the creation of a fjord fish subject, and opposes the rest of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e850	In the comments in the case, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right, says that they find it strange and unnecessary that unresolved questions about fishing rights should be decided by the Finnish National Commission, and that this Commission does not have a mandate to interpret the law in this area. This mandate will now be given to the Commission by amending Section 29. Any existence of this type of rights may not be excluded. Such clarifications are important and there should be a simpler way for fishermen who can document such claims than to go through the courts. Why won't the Christian People's Party go in for a simplification in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e857	The Christian People's Party, as we have said, together with the others, is of the opinion that the obligations of the State to care for the interests of the minorities have been respected, and that therefore we see no reason why the Finnish State Commission should enter into such types of assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e862	I noticed that the representative said he was against the regionalisation of the fisheries management. I would like to know then: Does he mean on a principle basis that it is wrong to take regional policy into account in the fisheries management?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e868	The representative does not believe that. But what is the problem is if you start setting up your own fisheries administrations for parts of the country, because as representatives of the whole country, we also have other parts of the country to take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e873	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e876	Following a comprehensive process, on 16 March, the government presented our proposals for the follow-up of NOU 2008: 5 — also known as the Finnish Coastal Fisheries Commission — on the right to fish in the sea outside Finnmark. This is the response to the decision of the Stortingen to investigate the matter and to promote a follow-up case. The size is therefore well aware of the background and follow-up of the matter, and I will not go into the details here. However, I would like to highlight the constructive dialogue we have had with the Sameting. From a point of view of positions at opposite ends, we have taken a look at central, fundamental disagreements and agreed on a set of measures that will strengthen fisheries in the north. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend the appropriate attitude of the whole thing, and I believe that our experience is an example of the good achievement of the purpose of the consultation agreement. The case shows that the Norwegian authorities take the relationship with each other as indigenous and minority peoples in the greatest seriousness. This is what is at the heart of the matter — which is reflected in the thorough review of international law in the legislative proposal. In addition, the government's assessments have been given considerable space in the text. I will therefore go straight to the conclusions and proposals for action. On the basis of our interpretation of the legal bases, we do not agree with the Coastal Fisheries Committee that there is a right to fishing for the Finnmark population, whether on the basis of international law or historical usage. At the same time, we assume that the applicable fisheries management is in line with the obligations of international law. However, we propose to legislate on a right to fishing in the participant law – under certain conditions – for all residents of Finnmark, Nord-Troms and other areas of Troms and Nordland that have had a seasamic settlement over a certain period of time. In addition, we want to clarify Sami considerations in the fisheries legislation through a new provision in the participant law and the Marine Resource Act. In practice, there will be access to fishing in an open group within the scope of legislation. This does not imply any change in reality compared to the current system, but the law makes it impossible for fisheries to be closed for the future without a change in law. Through the proposal to add an additional quota to the open group in the scope – implemented in both 2011 and 2012 – we are also helping to strengthen the revenue opportunities for ships. By the end of May, almost 200 vessels had joined the system of the year, and the additional quota is already being fished. The motive is to give a substantial boost to traditional small-scale fishing in parts of North Norway as a district policy instrument, but in addition we want to ensure that fisheries regulations will be clear for the future, even within the framework of international law. The decline of fishermen and fishing vessels in the last decades has been greatest in areas with a maritime settlement. However, for the government, it is important to look together at the challenges facing the people of North Norway. The intention of the proposal for a ban on fishing within the fjord lines for vessels over 15 metres is to ensure that the smallest vessels have their quotas fished. Nevertheless, we do not ignore the resources of this type of regulation. The reality today is that fishing within fjord lines is already limited by coastal cod protection. Anyway, we've added up to a flexibility that opens up exceptions to the general rule when good reasons speak for it. Our proposal to establish a fjord fish topic could contribute to a function that can assess and recommend practical and sensible solutions for fishing in the fjords. We are committed to further work on concreteising the work and role of the fjord fish subject. As the Directorate of Fisheries can provide a secretariat, we assume that the scale of increased red tape and costs will be limited. Regardless of the ongoing follow-up to the proposal of the Joint Justice Committee II to legislate on the consultation obligation, we are also committed to the formalisation and further development of consultations by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry with the Sameting. In conclusion, I would like to refer to our proposal to allow for the recognition of the substantive rights of fishing grounds to be presented to the Finnmark Commission, through a new provision in the Finnmark Act. Today, fishermen or a group of fishermen may go to the courts with a claim, based on their use of the place, for exclusive or preferential rights to fishing grounds in relation to others who want to use the place. The Coastal Fisheries Committee considers it more appropriate for the Finnmark Commission to carry out this task. The government believes that with this package of measures, we have come up with a good, legitimate and forward-looking solution to help fisheries remain strong in vulnerable areas in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e912	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e915	I will ask the Minister for Maritime Food questions relating to ‘Section 21 new third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:’. Here you will find a list of some municipalities that are entitled to fish cod, hay and sail with conventional gear, without prejudice to the provisions of the first paragraph of this paragraph. In this regard, I am a little curious about the contribution made by the Council of State, because the Council of State says that these changes are in line with what is applicable today. Then I ask the following question: why is it necessary to frame these municipalities? And what will be the consequence of the particular ramifications of these municipalities? What if – as I have asked questions about earlier today – the resources, i.e. the stocks, are going down? Does that mean that you cannot limit fishing to those who live in these municipalities, without changes in the law, but that you can do so in other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e922	As I said in my post, the law that we are now proposing will only apply on that day – hopefully it will never happen – it should be relevant to close the open group. If we were to get into a situation where it was going to happen, we can't exclude the fishermen in these areas without a change in law. It's a stronger right to be able to participate in an open group. When it comes to what comes first, biology or justice: biology comes first. It is obvious that we should get into a situation when, for example. The coastal cod, that we must close the fjord, then we close the fjord, and then of course it will apply to everyone. So we don't have to confuse having a right and being able to fish. So that's the biology that controls, and we'll obviously put it first.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e929	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will have another line. At the same time, the President draws the attention of the representative to the fact that, as far as the President is aware, we do not have a maritime food minister in Norway – at least that is not an official title.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e934	It's not an official title, but I use the title Seafood Minister Lell – I'll try to limit myself. I thank the Council of State for the answer. So what happens in the proposition regarding the new third paragraph of Section 21 is that if you want to limit fishing, you can do so in any municipality other than the one mentioned here. I see the Council of State shaking its head, but I expect that when the government makes a bill in Stortinget, where some municipalities, specific municipalities, are named, it must have a reason. If my interpretation is not correct, I'll ask the Council of State to tell you what the outline of these special municipalities means. As I understand the text, you can limit fishing in municipalities other than these, without changing the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e941	Let me try to comment on these two points. Firstly, today, anyone can become a fisherman — mostly anywhere. We agree on that, and we are pleased about that. I hope that still will be the case. But if it were to happen that for some reason we would have to close open group, a group where people can most go in and be fishermen, then we can't do it without going through a change of laws. Then, on the other hand, the regulation of fishing is mixed: the regulation of fisheries will of course be carried out in the same way, regardless of whether you are in it or in that municipality. Let's close a fjord because the Coastal cod protection says it, yes, we'll close it for everyone – then everyone has to get out of it. There are more elements in this than just being an open-group fisherman; for example: the distribution of the 3000 tonnes benefiting this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e952	Then we have been told that if you have to close the fish, you close it for everyone. But the 3,000 tons that are today will then only be available to people living in those municipalities. I want to go back to this with the fresh fish strategy of the government. It aims to provide fresh raw materials to countries throughout the year, and this has been a frequently debated issue. Then you come up with a proposal to close boats over 15 meters out from active fishing within the fjord line. Very often, the climate makes it so that during periods of the year it takes a little bigger boats to enable the farms on the coast of North Norway to get the raw material they need for production. It may seem that this bill works a little counter to the aim of the Council of State having had its fresh fish strategy, because here we can risk that boats that can retrieve raw material for the farms will not get to sea because the fishing takes place within the fjord line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e959	Let me clear a clear misunderstanding: the 3,000 tons will not be available anyway. The 3000 tonnes are taken from the top and allocated to the fishermen in the municipalities within this area. With regard to the situation in cod fisheries: we have to hope that it never happens – that there will be no room to set at 3000 tonnes. It must always be the biology that governs this. So for this with fishing within the fjord line and vessel over/under 15 meters. Here, too, I have to clarify what at best is an obvious misunderstanding. This is actually not a new principle. We have several examples of determining according to the length of the vessel. It's e.g. the prohibition for autoline vessel over 21,35 metres to set line within four nautical miles and within ten nautical miles in some areas. Another example is crayfish, where there is also a restriction on larger vessels. Coastal protection is a third example. This is not a new principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e967	No, this is not a new principle, but in the examples you framed, you connect it to tooling – you say that type of tool, and then you say the size of the boat. But here you don't. The debate here has preferably gone down, and here one says that a boat over 15 meters with a note should not be allowed to fish within the fjord line, while a boat of 14.5 meters with a note can be allowed to fish within the fjord line. The problem is that the two boats, both in efficiency and what they have to say for the stock, will be exactly the same. There will be no difference between how much fish you can get with a 14.5 meter long boat and with a 15 meter long boat. If you were to do something to regulate fishing in the fjords, you should either go on gear or do what you do today – to close some fjords because the population is in such a condition. This is a proposal that only increases the injustice of large parts of the coastal fleet in the current regime. You're strengthening the injustice there, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e976	No, it's not the tool type, it's the size. Because there is no doubt that boats of a certain size are more efficient than smaller boats. King crab fishing with tea is a very good example. If you fish king crabs with ponds from a boat under 21,35 meters, you can go much closer to land than if you fish with ponds and have to go further to sea, and then it's the gear. You get regulated in different ways according to size. It's the same thing here – big boats can push small boats. In order to secure the smallest fishing fleet, and to secure the coastal population in these areas, we are introducing a principle of above and below 15 metres – but where, of course, exemptions can be granted. For example, there may be: fjord fish discuss flexibility here and arrive at good local solutions. That's the idea of this – take advantage of the coastal population.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e981	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e986	Finally, the adjustment of the Coastal Fisheries Committee shall be dealt with in Stortinget. There has been a long way to go from the Finnish Coastal Fisheries Commission in June 2006. The selection was wide-ranging, and the meetings with all the municipalities concerned in Finnmark, i.e. in 17 of 19 municipalities. Such involvement was impressive, but also necessary. The result was also unanimous in the Coastal Fisheries Committee. The proposal submitted also follows the main proposals of the Coastal Fisheries Committee — except in a few key areas. I'll comment on two of them. Firstly, the committee considered that there is a right to fish for the Finnmark population based on international law. The second is that the sample proposed a local management of fish resources. In these two areas, the Department has not followed up the proposals of the Coastal Fisheries Committee. I represent Finnmark and the Workers' Party here at Stortinget, and we want to get a legal right to fishing based on international law. However, when the ministry proposes to legislate the right to fishing for all those living in Finnmark, Nord-Troms and the other maritime areas concerned, who own a branded vessel less than 11 metres and are registered in the number of fishermen, my assessment is that this is well on the way to meeting the requirement. Finnmark County does not want local management of fish stocks and fish resources, and my view is that it is correct. Fish is a national resource and must be managed nationally, not because no one else can do so, but migratory populations must be seen in a holistic and national perspective, and withdrawals through quota determinations must be based on stock tolerance, and neither can nor should be fragmented in local management. The stock of cod in the Barents Sea is now in such a good condition that it is the best proof that Norway is conducting a sound fisheries policy, with a yield that the population can withstand. In addition, a fjord fish topic can be designated which can take a look at management, based on proximity, experience and local knowledge. The fact that the fjords are reserved only for the smallest fleet may limit a good sea fishing in traditional areas. Reason must be used here so that some do not reduce their income in something intended to strengthen Finns. We have many seiners in Finnmark, and these must be taken into account. I record that there is a possibility of exemption in the restrictions on the fjords. I am convinced that this will be a good order, which will serve the fishermen and the population of Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e997	This is a very important day for the maritime population and for all the others who live in these areas, regardless of their ethnicity. For many years, fishermen in these areas were the losers when quotas were to be allocated and regulation was to be determined. Fortunately, today, developments have turned around in many of the Sámi communities, with good access to fish and good access to young people who want to become fishermen. With the decisions to be taken by the Stortinget today, conditions are very well suited to optimism and new giving in the maritime areas. Firstly, the Storting today recognises the importance of fishing as a basis for the Sami culture, by legislating the right of fishing for all those living in the Sámi regions, and by emphasising the importance of Sami culture in the law. Secondly, we are strengthening the democratic element of fisheries management through the new fjord fish issue. In addition, the majority also adheres to the grips that fishermen would best notice in their everyday lives, namely the own quota of the smallest and most vulnerable group, and that vessels over 15 metres should not, as a general rule, be allowed to enter the fjords. With it, a ten-year-old claim from these groups is met. There are still discussions about the rights issues. Those are very shared opinions. This is precisely why it is wise for the Finnmark Commission to now be given an extended mandate in which it can also issue rights requirements from individual groups or persons requiring fishing grounds, for which it has a parallel to land through the Finnish Commission – for which the right of time was. I have to say, I am very surprised that people are going against having to settle their legal claims at sea, and instead refer them to courts, with the costs it incurs in the form of legal fees, and of course without the popular, democratic anchoring that the Finnish Commission has when they are going to deal with that kind of thing. But here the Right and Right philosophy seems to be that trying to get its right is reserved for those who have money, and not the little man or woman along the coast of the north. In recent years, there has been broad political consensus in common policy, with the exception of the Progress Party, and it has been very good. I notice that the Right now jumps off the broad, cross-political consensus and sticks a lot closer to the Advance Party. It is not the case – as the rapporteur says – that some elements of the government’s proposal are opposed to all substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1006	The arguments of the Right Party and the Advance Party about anchoring the decision-making power of the most important party are only words, it has been shown today in the debate in the Chamber – because when the possibility of translating words into action, suddenly there is no opportunity or will. Why is it important to have local anchoring in such matters that we are dealing with today? We have enough examples of how large-scale capital and their management of fishing resources make life difficult for employees in the fishing industry and their families. Smoking and trawling concessions are a good or a bad example – all because of what words you want to use – of how it can work when big capital gains too much power over management and housing. It's just the last thing that's a challenge in this case. We know that the population in Coastal Finland has fallen by almost 50 pst in the last 30 years. in individual communities. There is no doubt that this is closely linked to the development of fisheries. In order to remedy the evolution that we see, today's decision is a small but important step in the right direction, by getting the legal right to fish for everyone who lives in Finnmark. This issue is about wanting and wiping to make political decisions that challenge today's resource regime in some areas. The representative Harald Nesvik characterises the proposal for an additional quota for open group cod of 3000 tonnes as a strange thing. It's no strange thing -- it's about the everyday life of thousands of people, so they can create a safer and better everyday life for the many coastal communities they represent. I note that the Progress Party and the Right will not be involved in this. Unlike the government, they still just want to talk – but we're making words into action. It is about policy and policy choices, and in this case important regional policy measures for the population of Finnmark. For the people of Finnmark this is about their everyday lives, because the Progress Party is about a nice thing. This is a good day for the whole population of Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1017	I must be allowed to comment on some of the things that have been said here. To transfer these kinds of decisions to the Finnish National Commission and then claim that there is a tool for the little man is to draw it further than you really should. The reality today is that the Finnish Commission is overburdened with work. They have decades of work ahead of them to determine rights to land in Finnmark. The debate is warmed by what kind of principles should be the basis for this. The reason why the Right believes that such questions should be addressed to the ordinary judiciary is that if there is anyone who believes that they have a right to such rights today, one should have their case tried today. Therefore, the case should be governed by the ordinary legal system. Unlike land use in Finnland, in one particular state, this is about rights to national resources. Therefore, it should be in the ordinary legal system, in the opinion of the Right. Trying to create a picture that we won't let go of the little man is with respect to report the error. In fact, I would rather claim that adding these questions to the Finnmark Commission – with their work area today, as much work as they have, and with all the thousand questions asked about that work – would be to lure the little man into a dark pit and not give him the opportunity to get out again. Then to the representative, Ingelill Olsen. I totally agree, it's actually so that a lot of fishing is going on with boats over 15 meters, and these can now get problems because we don't know what kind of management regime we're going to have for these fisheries. But you can make exceptions. A name can be created and an exception can be made. This is with respect not to report the way one conducts business policies. It must be possible to create greater predictability for fishermen. Fisheries shall be part of a modern industry to look ahead and create values. Then these regimes aren't what you're adding to. Finally, to the representative Helga Pedersen, who believes that the Right says no to everything that has substance. What the right is saying is that the definition of indigenous peoples in international law is to apply in this law. If the international law of the representative Pedersen is without substance, it is probably the Labour Party's problem, not the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1030	This is becoming a strange debate. I just want to try to answer a couple of questions – especially to the representative Simensen. First of all, about this with a strange thing. That's the construction of what's in this law, I talked about in my post -- not 3,000 tons to the open group. The submission of open questions to the Finnmark Commission for clarification may take many years. If you think you're working late in court, you can try to get the case before the Finnmark Commission, you'll see how long it takes. The representative Simensen was also involved in local democracy and moving decisions there. If the representative Simensen had actually meant it, why is it only in a given number of municipalities and in certain parts of the country? If the representative Simensen meant it, why isn't the rest of the country listed here? That's the difference we're discussing. It's a construction for Finnmark, Troms and parts of Nordland, which is the problem here. The rest of the country is being left out. Is it supposed to be a different form of local democracy in the north than what to have elsewhere in the country? Or is it thought that a citizen in Norway is a citizen in Norway and should have the same opportunities? With regard to the matter we are dealing with, we have received a number of answers. The Council of State itself was involved in the open-group pre-allocation. It is precisely these municipalities that are referred to. It becomes problematic for those living in the neighbouring municipality if the quotas are not to be met. In addition, there are a number of other issues arising from this law, and the fact is that the granting of rights is based on ethnicity. That's what you do. Because it's said that where the Sámi population lives or has lived over time, there are special challenges. I know about many places in the country in the fishing industry that have special challenges! But when it comes to trying out his case, which the representative Helga Pedersen was in – that the Progress Party and the Right believe that only those who have thick wallets can try their case – what about the other places in the country, then? The Party of Advancement and the Right stands for is precisely equal treatment. But what the representative Helga Pedersen is calling for is to have one system in Finnmark, Troms and parts of Nordland and another system in the rest of the country. This should not be the case with Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1041	The views of the Progress Party on these issues are well known, and I am not spending time on them. What's new are the right points of view on these questions. It deserves a comment. The right vote against all the instruments that have substance in what is being dealt with in the Storting today. They go against a legal right for the population in these areas to fish. They cross the 15-metre line in the fjords. They're going to go against a separate supplementary allowance for the open group. They're going against the fjord fish subject. And they're going against getting people to try their rights at the Finnmark Commission. I don't think the representative Bakke-Jensen answered the challenge well with regard to the Commission. He came up with practical considerations. Yes, practical challenges can always be solved. But on the fundamental question, I did not hear that the representative Bakke-Jensen had a good answer. I suspect him not to agree with what the party Right Fronts in this matter – really, inside. So it's said by the Right that the fjord fish subject will be so bureaucratic and expensive. Well, we didn't choose democracy in Norway because it was so very cheap or so very effective. But we've chosen it because it's right. So here we're giving the people in the affected areas a new tool that they can be involved in and influence their everyday lives. I actually think that's very good. So the question of the 15 meter limit in terms of the fjords. Obviously, you have limited resources in a fjord. You have small boats with few opportunities to go to the next fjord or out to the sea, and then you have large boats that have far more opportunities to move to another place if the weather is bad. In fact, I believe it is right to ensure the fishing opportunities for the smallest boats first. The right here has said very little about alternative suggestions. Is it against having a length limit in the fjords, or should it be free for everyone? Should the trawls come in and fish deep in the feathers? I would like to have a good answer to that – I have not received that here. The representative Hill-Jensen also expressed that this would reinforce the injustice. No, it's the opposite – now we're raising groups that historically have come out badly when the resources were to be distributed. If we're going to give everyone equal opportunities in this country, we can't treat everyone the same way. Here we start with some tools to raise those that have the least. The fact that the right is opposed to regional policy instruments is nothing new, but the new thing is that we are no longer taking responsibility for common policies, and that is sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1060	In this case, the opposition makes it appear that these measures proposed have enormous consequences. So I'm going to do some examples. For 2011 and 2012, 3 000 tonnes have been allocated to the open group within the scope of the proposed measures in the follow-up to the Coastal Fisheries Commission. It was organised through an additional quota of 6 tonnes for those vessels fishing in an open group. If you add the minimum price, in the order of 10 dollars, to approx. 12 kroner in round weight, it can be expected that the income per boat for those taking part in this quota will go up to NOK 72 000 more. Of course, if you get a price above the minimum price, your income will increase. The impact on the individual actors who are not allowed to participate in the additional allowances will be relatively small, but will depend on the allowances for each year. Based on the 2012 regulation, a vessel with a length of navigability of e.g.: 11 meters get about 550 kilos less in quota, with an additional quota of 3000 tons. Based on an average price of cod – in the period 2000–2011 – this corresponds to NOK 7 205. I believe that the Right and Advance Party are deliberately exaggerating the consequences of these measures. It's probably that there are fundamental reasons why it's being argued against some of these measures. It's okay. It is also possible to clarify that the right is relying on the arguments of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1069	For us who were present in 2008 when the Smith Committee handed over the report to the then state council Helga Pedersen, it was not to avoid noticing that great expectations were created among the coastal population in Finnmark. Some things were prepared and guaranteed – almost –: regional fisheries management, own quotas, a completely separate regime. Finnmark County said no to regional fisheries management. This is seen as a national resource, and it is known that important fishing takes place along the coast. A large part of the fleet is moving along the entire coast. If we're going to have a fishing industry to create values throughout the year, we're dependent on viewing this as a national resource and using the entire fishing fleet to get these resources up. Then the Pedersen rams up all that the Right says no. We agree that international law will also apply in this legislation. It's an important principle. And the indigenous definition should apply – it is an important principle. So we say no to part of the other things. Some of the things we think will not work according to purpose, and other things we think will be right. There are some basic things in our resource and fisheries management that we're breaking with now, and those things we've said we're saying no to. Proclaiming with patos that establishing a fjord fish topic is strengthening local democracy, I fundamentally disagree. Such a fjord fish topic will not strengthen local democracy. It will not strengthen local democracy at all. The fjord boundary, as it is now to be used, is most likely to cause major problems for the part of the industry that depends on getting raw material throughout the year. We know that the climatic conditions along the Norwegian coast – and especially along the coast of North Norway – are such that small boats cannot rest all year round. Small boats cannot supply raw material throughout the year. Then it is very good to have a little bigger vessel both for the purpose of getting the raw material on land and for the safety of the fishermen who are going to have their working day there. Then it's not like it's just small, lukewarm fjords that we've said no to when it comes to the fjord border. There are quite large sea areas within the islands where there has been fishing using slightly larger boats for years. That's not a trifle we put in here. This can turn out to be pretty serious. So to the representative Lillian Hansen, who brilliantly tried to explain to us how small these measures are. If that's the way these measures don't matter, I don't think we should bother introducing them either. We should take this so seriously that what we put in place is what we mean. If we're going to do something, it really has to mean something -- not a little math where we're almost not left with anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1087	The representative Harald T. Nesvik was wondering from the pulpit why we are dealing with a matter that only focuses on Finnmark. But that is exactly what this is all about! This is an answer to a question that Stortinget has asked us to investigate, about the rights of Samers and others to fish outside Finnmark. This will, of course, have a local geographical averaging. But it is also about district policy. I know that both these two themes – minorities and district policy – are difficult issues for the Progress Party, but for us they are very important. That is why the measures we are proposing here are important, and that we can also argue from this pulpit to make local democratic elections, as in this case. I think that the government with the honour of keeping doing so in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1094	This issue is not just about regulation of fisheries. This case is based on common policies, and that's why we're discussing it. It is about the commitments of the Norwegian state towards its indigenous population, and yes — it will lead to differences between some in the south and north, but we introduce differences to correct injustices. I think that the Right has had a very stable relationship with the Common Policy, and I actually believe that there are changes in it now. We record this with concern – not because we cannot disagree on things, because it only enriches the debate, but if the Right takes the line that the Progress Party has, it does not help to develop a good policy for the Sami population. We who are finnmarks know that co-politics arouse emotions. I think that we, Finnmark's representatives, must help us to fulfil our national obligations – that is important. It is important that we create a system that allows the coastal and fjord population in Finnmark to have a better material basis. The 3,000 tonnes are a good example. The representative Lillian Hansen pointed out that this could increase profitability. I would like to be at the annual meeting in the Fiskarlag Nord when the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen is going to explain why he has gone against the fishermen in this area being better served.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1103	I had the pleasure of being the case rapporteur for the Finnish Law. It was a long canvas to bleach – we stayed here in the house for over two years. We had consultations both with the county council in Finnmark and with the Sametinget. It ended up with broad political consensus. Then it's important to assume what we agreed on that time. What we agreed on was the scope of the law, § 2: ‘The law applies to real estate and watercourses with natural resources in the state of Finnmark. In the shoreline, the law applies as far into the sea as private property extends.» Then there was a long debate, and there was a pressure, especially from the Workers' Party, to include coastal fishing. The majority agreed to investigate. That investigation has now come to the table, and the right has then chosen to interpret this in the way I see it in the opinion that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs also interprets it, namely that the fish is a national resource. We will, of course, deal with the obligations of international law, but in this very area there is indeed a great deal of disagreement about how this should be interpreted. That's why a sample has been reduced, and that's why the government, with former fisheries minister Helga Pedersen as the first initiator, has launched this to find out where we're going to land. So now we are in the situation that the right is at the position we stood at when the Finnish Law was investigated and negotiated. We agreed to an investigation, but the investigation has not made us want to change our position. I believe that the Right is attached to the Finnish Law, and that we stand firm on what we agreed on that time. What we do not agree with is the investigation decision that is now presented in Stortinget as a conclusion, where I record that the Ministry of Fisheries has a completely different view than the Workers' Party foreshadows in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1117	Just briefly to the comments of the representative Pedersen that the right has changed the position of the common policy. That's wrong. It is a claim that does not stand as a believer. It is such that we have said that international law — the indigenous definition — is to be incorporated into this law. We agree on that. Then we agree with the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Pedersen's own government that this is covered by the law that we have today – it is stated in the proposition, and it is covered by the current law – and then there have been some minor changes, which do not have a very large substance, but which we basically believe is unfortunate, and we have said no to them. First, it's the way the Right stands for strengthening the law. Secondly, we agree with Pedersen's own government that this is covered by the applicable law, and then we actually think that the matter has been well dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1126	It's interesting to listen to this exchange of words that's going on here. What made me speak was the representative of Greece, who indicates that the Right agrees with the Ministry's interpretation of international law. It's the red-green parties that agree, but it's still allowed to pursue politics, and that's what we do. So we're going to facilitate value creation, we're going to facilitate activity in areas that can be proven to have slowed down, and we're going to slow down much more than many other areas along the coast. What we're doing here is we're prioritizing the coastal population, and then we're giving priority to the smallest boats. We give priority to people living along the fjords. We know that gives an estimation of activity on land. The fish caught by these fishermen are not frozen and transported to neither More nor China – no, it is transported ashore in these areas and gives activity. That's the background for us to facilitate this. We give priority to both fish – fish live fishermen and the rest of the population – and, as I said, to the smallest vessels. I am very pleased that we have agreed with the Sameting. We disagree on some principles, but we've begun to discuss realities, content. We agree with the Sameting about that, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1135	I just took the word to establish that there is no doubt that the red-green parties believe that this case is under international law, that it is the basis. We didn't mean anything else. What is the difference here, and which is also apparent in terms of safeguarding the Sami interests in these areas, is that, through the investigation and through the Ministry's assessments, it is desirable to legislate for these rights, based on the fact that there is a high degree of uncertainty associated with coastal fishing in these areas. That is why we have found that it makes sense to ensure this through a separate legislation, as it emerges from the case. It in turn includes a proper care of Sami interests. As you can see, this is a good follow-up to the policy we have always faced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1144	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1158	Chapter 2 of the 2008 Foreign Affairs Act deals with visas to Schengen and Norway, including Section 13, which states that visa applications are decided by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, but that the authority to decide on a visa application can also be added to the EEAS, and that the authority to grant a Schengen visa under Section 10 may be added to a foreign service of another Schengen country. The latter provision was incorporated in the Foreign Affairs Act when Norway entered into the Schengen cooperation in March 2001. In order for another Schengen country to be able to grant visa applications to Norway, we need a representation agreement with that country. Today we have twelve such agreements, which include approximately 70 different places in the world. On the other hand, we represent the Nordic countries, the Netherlands and Germany in 27 places as well as Austria in one place. These representation agreements are based on a service principle, which encourages all Schengen countries to be present in all visa countries. This is practically dealt with through representation agreements to process applications on behalf of each other. New Visa Regulation entered into force in April 2010. Then visa cooperation was extended to include refusal of competence, in addition to the previous qualification. There is a minimum standard for the design and justification of any refusal. The same applies to the handling of a complaint. The complaint is dealt with by the same country as treated and rejected the visa application. These standards are in line with Norwegian administrative law. In this case, the government promotes a proposal for an amendment to Section 13 of the Foreign Affairs Act so that our representation agreements will include both approval, refusal and review. The justification is twofold – on the one hand because it provides applicants with better service, on the other hand because, when renegotiation of the representation agreements, several Schengen countries now demand that they also have delegated their power of refusal, otherwise the representation agreements will not be renewed, with the disadvantages it entails, both for individuals and for foreign authorities. The case has been widely consulted, with few comments. The Committee therefore considered that there was no need for a new consultation in the context of the examination by the Storting of the legislative proposal. A unanimous committee agrees with the government's proposal. A few of the hearing bodies have asked whether the proceedings meet our requirements. The Ministry has explained this in a good way in the proposition. In addition, this is an optional scheme for applicants to make use of. Anyone who so wishes may continue to submit an application to the nearest Norwegian foreign station. We have also been informed that the scheme will be evaluated in the usual way. Such an evaluation need not necessarily be comprehensive, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs indicates that there are few visa applicants for Norway from the places covered by our representation agreements. The Committee has also asked the government to look at the possibilities for cooperation with the Swedish consulate of Erbil in Iraq, so that visas can be applied for from there, where appropriate, for treatment elsewhere. Here I understand that the Council of State will provide updated information in its article. In addition, the proposal contains proposals for the creation of errors in some paragraphs of the Foreign Affairs Act. Since these are only technical changes, the Committee has chosen to take note of them, without any comments. The setting is, as mentioned above, unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1179	I am pleased that there is support for the proposal to amend the Foreign Affairs Act in order to allow other Schengen countries to acquire, by agreement, the competence to reject a visa application on behalf of Norway, not just grant on behalf of Norway, for which we have rules now. Since Norway and other countries participating in the Schengen cooperation do not have embassies in all countries, representation cooperation agreements, with a view to granting visas on behalf of each other, have been an important part of the Schengen cooperation also for Norway since we became Schengen members in 2001. This cooperation helps to streamline the management of foreigners and helps to speed up the process. It involves increased service to applicants and is resource-saving where Norway does not have its own embassy. It is important that this cooperation is now extended to allow countries to also refuse an application on behalf of each other, as they can grant on behalf of each other. The fact that we give Schengen countries the power to reject visa applications on behalf of Norway is essential for the continuation of the representation agreements we have today with central Schengen countries. However, I would like to stress that we will of course be following developments, and should the number of visa concessions change significantly in the negative direction, it is natural to look at the possible relationship with rejection practices in the countries that represent us. The Committee, in its position, has concerned the situation of Iraqi visa applicants and raised the question of whether solutions can be found so that visa applications can be promoted from Erbil in Northern Iraq, possibly through another Schengen country's consular representation. The Swedish consulate in Erbil is mentioned as an opportunity. However, as I am familiar with it, the consulate does not currently have a visa authority. In this context, I would like to point out that the situation in the country makes it necessary for Schengen countries to take into account the security challenge of a queue of visa applicants. Nevertheless, we shall have the question with us further, and I see it as natural to await the deployment of the Schengen visa information system region, the VIS, and look at opportunities in the light of this. The VIS shall operate as planned towards the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1190	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1206	At first glance it may seem like this is an immigration policy interpellation, but there is just as much an interpellation of women and equality policy. I get many enquiries with this as a theme, and it can be described as an e-mail begins: "I lived a normal life until I met the most wonderful man in the world." The right to live with the one in whom you are happy, the right to live together as a family, is a fundamental human right. As I've said before to this government, they must have boasted about having the job for the right to live with the one you're happy with, no matter what sex you're happy with. But there's still a little bit left when it comes to the right to live with the one you're happy with, if you do something as strange as falling in love outside the EEA. Many of the stories we receive are quite heartbreaking. Many are victims of laws that had completely different intentions than the laws they are affected by. I wonder how many love marriages we are willing to sacrifice to achieve completely fundamental things. Or as a well-adulted lady in Trøndelag, who has fallen in love with a well-adult man from Egypt, writes: "If I had found my love in a European country... he would be here now...no problem.... but love comes no matter what country it is... but my husband is Egyptian... with visa duty." Now we experience that we have Norwegian refugees of love in Sweden – that is not so strange – but we also have them in Denmark. So sail Denmark, which has such a strict asylum policy, concluded together with the Danish People's Party, now we experience that the Nordics are going to get permission to live together as a family. I have in front of me the list of approval rates for family reunions. I assume that there are not very many gay couples in the statistics, but female reference persons with a male immigrant partner are more often denied, especially after the entry into force of the new Foreign Affairs Act. This may be because women fall in love in countries other than men fall in love with, but there is a clear, large gender difference in the numbers. It can have many reasons. Pro forma marriage is something that actually has a pretty low frequency in the numbers we see. That was about. 100 rejections last year due to the proforma, of approx. 12,000 who were granted family reunification. But I am regularly contacted by especially women, precisely because of the pro forma, and we can read regularly in the newspaper about pro forma marriage as a way of tricking immigrants into Norway, last with a big article in the evening post last year. It's a fact that there are several men who get rejection of proforma, that is, where the woman lives in Norway. I experienced sails when I asked employees at the embassy in India for family reunion, where they had just had an interview with a couple – a Norwegian woman and an Indian man – that the interviewer from the embassy said it was obvious that the Norwegian lady was terribly in love, but she was unsure whether the Indian man was equally in love. I have been to a wedding in Norway where I have sometimes been unsure whether both parties have been equally in love, but that it is the task of the Norwegian foreign authorities to assess the degree of infatuation at marriage, I believe that I am wrong. We noticed that a period of family reunification with Greece and Turkey was stopped because there was a fear of an organized activity linking Norwegian women to Turkish men – as if it were a great news that there are places where you work actively to link Norwegian men to Thai, Filipino or Russian women. So you stop reuniting from a country because you think it's organized for women, and you see with your eyes fully open that there's organized activity from other countries in the case of men. It's actually not that love in organized acquaintances, whether it's Internet dating or what it is, is less valuable than others. Or as Guro says, we've unfortunately been in a process for over three years now. The way you're treated is simply incredible. I had not in my wildest imagination imagined that I would be subjected to such a treatment of a state system. Norwegian foreign policy tends to be based on extreme cases. The maintenance requirement and the wording of the maintenance requirement are linked to the fight against coercion. When the UDI dealt with 25 100 applications for family reunification last year, as I mentioned earlier, 12 900 were approved for family reunification. My question to the Council of State is, for how many of the 12,000 do you think there is a danger of forced marriage? How many of the women we think we're talking about here, does that apply to? What does the Council of State think? In many cases, we make policies for extreme cases, while we see that we hit the daily, everyday cases. We have to fight coercion, of course, but there's a lot of ways to do it. The best way to do it is not to make life sour for absolutely everyone else. I would like to hear from the Council of State whether it is documented what the strict maintenance requirement has done in the fight against forced marriage. So some words about the entertainment requirement. As the Council of State and the President know, I have, together with Borghild Tenden, promoted my own proposal for a fairer family reunion. I have heard the council repeatedly say that you have this in mind. I do not expect the Council of State to conclude in the matter, but what would have been interesting to hear is what she thinks is too strict in today's system: is that the demand backwards in time, is it the lack of flexibility, or is it the very level of the maintenance requirement? In conclusion, I would like to say that I am not accusing UDI of discriminating, but the legislation we have established here, and the way we set it up, and the way in which we suspect people in the system, makes us run with indirect discrimination. This has consequences for people, especially women, who experience that what they met with public Norway was a clean, cut paper treatment, that the right to live with the one in whom you are happy turned out to be a nightmare of a procedure – a nightmare because you thought you would achieve things with the law other than what you are actually doing. People feel they're being treated like criminals, sail if they're really just trying to fulfill their rights, which they have under Norwegian law. Here we have to admit that in this room we have been very actively involved with active measures to achieve one thing, but it has had some consequences, especially for many couples, and especially for women, which means that we do not achieve human rights. – These are the questions I have for the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1240	I've noticed the statistics that the interpellant refers to. It is true that the proportion of rejection decisions in family immigration cases is higher when the reference person is a woman than when the reference person is a man. In marriage cases where the reference person is a woman, the proportion of the rejection was approximately. 40 pst. In 2011, while in the case of men, it was about 22 pst. As the interpellant writes, there are several reasons why female reference persons are refused family reunification. However, the main reason is assumed to be that female reference persons have not met the maintenance requirement to a greater extent than men. I am, like the interpellant, concerned with gender equality and have therefore started a work on looking at the reasons for the gender difference shown by the statistics. Initially, I would like to stress that today's family immigration legislation is gender-neutral and that the rules on the maintenance requirement take into account conditions that typically cause women to have lower participation in the labour market than men, such as women. child care responsibilities. For the purposes of the calculation of compliance with the maintenance requirement, such as: maternity benefits and parental leave are included. Similarly, child care is considered a post-natal period as work when calculating whether the so-called four-year requirement has been met. However, when it turns out to be the maintenance requirement which is the main cause of gender differences, it is interesting to consider which groups of reference persons are affected. In this context, we can ignore reference persons who have received protection, as these will usually be exempt from the maintenance requirement. Furthermore, we can ignore migrant workers, as they will normally meet the maintenance requirement without any problems. The group which remains clearly the largest affected by the maintenance requirement will be the reference persons who are Norwegian nationals. In addition, foreigners, such as resided on a humanitarian basis, on the basis of family immigration or with a permanent residence permit, subject to the maintenance requirement, but those groups are much smaller than the group of Norwegian citizens. As to the question of why the proportion of rejection cases is higher when the reference person is a woman than when there is a man, the case portfolio suggests that this is primarily due to the different composition of the reference person groups. This is particularly true when we look at reference people who are Norwegian citizens. In this group, the reference persons are men, usually older and therefore well established in the workplace, while the reference persons who are women are often younger. A large proportion of these male reference persons are ethnically Norwegian and of well-adult age, and in many cases they are married to an applicant from Thailand, the Philippines or Russia. These men will generally have no difficulty in meeting the maintenance requirement, neither as regards the level of income, nor the requirement for previous income in previous years. Among the female reference persons with Norwegian citizenship, on the other hand, a large proportion of young people are from Pakistan, Turkey, Kosovo and Somalia, and they are often married to an applicant from the same country of origin. These young women are naturally not equally established in the labour market and may have difficulties in meeting both the income requirement and the requirement for previous income. In the case of non-Norwegian reference persons, statistics also show for these groups that the share of rejection is highest for women. This probably has other reasons than those I have mentioned. Immigration grounds, land backgrounds, educational levels and cultural differences are likely to play a strong role, but I also want to look into this. However, to the extent that there are differences between the sexes that cannot be explained by different matrimonial patterns and so on, it is not certain that the right action will be to change the maintenance requirement. It is important that both migrant women and women in general can participate in the labour market in the same way as men and thus meet the maintenance requirement equally. This is a priority matter for the government. The work to facilitate women’s more qualified to meet the maintenance requirement is done through the usual measures we have to increase women’s participation in the labour market. For immigrant women, this will primarily take place through the various integration measures that exist, such as the right and obligation to training in Norwegian and social knowledge, the introduction programme and also the New Chance. For female reference persons in general, there will be good welfare arrangements, such as good childcare, incentives for parental leave to be shared equally between mother and father, the right to paid absences in sick children and the possibility of reduced working hours when children are small, as well as the general labour-oriented measures offered by the Employment and Welfare Sit. As I have told you before, the government is committed to following closely the practice of the maintenance requirement to see if there is a need for change. In order to improve the clarity of the causes of the gender gap identified by the statistics and the possible measures to be implemented, the Ministry has taken the initiative of working together between the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and the Ministry of Inclusion and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs to explore this further. If it appears that practice leads to unintended differences between female and male reference persons, we will further consider how we can address this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1272	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I hope she is absolutely sincere in the fact that having a gender dimension in going through this legislation is actually quite important. Thinking that you're going to achieve millimeter justice with an even more complex and advanced code, I don't think you're going to get us into goal. The maintenance requirement has two objectives. One is to avoid coercion, and that was the main argument in this room when we introduced the legislation. The other thing, of course – and it supports the Left completely – is that you should not be able to bring people here who are unable to support yourself or who can be cared for by the person you are going to live with. I believe that when you're called Greta, you're from Trøndelag and you're 52 years old, like one of the ladies to whom I referred is the chance of coercion – and that's the way you're going to go in and use – relatively small. When she is going to marry an adulterous man from Egypt, you just have to check that coercion is not a current issue. That's not what you're afraid of, and then you kind of don't have to go into it in detail. So it's going to be a gender dimension because women are younger when they get married. I believe that it must also be included in the design of legislation that should not be discriminatory. Then I want to ask the Council of State about the term pro forma. The more I go into it, the easier it seems to use the 'proforma' to women than to men. You go in more detail and assess whether this is a proper marriage for women than for men. You go in and analyze whether these ladies are being tricked, or whether you're wondering about someone else. I can see that if you, for example, looking at family reunification from Egypt, Turkey or India in the case of women, it is a completely different practice from that of men for Thailand, the Philippines and Russia. Then there is no assessment of whether anyone is being tricked. There is no assessment of how much love is from both parties. There is a completely different assessment that is put into the ‘proforma’ when there are women who are actors than when there are men. For me, this has a moral undertone that says that women are more often deceived, and that women who marry men from abroad do so for moral reasons other than Norwegian men who find love in another country. I think it's just nice that someone finds love in another country. It brings out many great genes to Norwegian towns, which Norwegian towns have good taste, and which Norwegian cities have good taste, and in that case women and men should be treated equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1287	I see this interpellation as important, and it is also very important that we ensure the gender dimension of this legislation. There was a lot of discussion related to both forced marriage and maintenance requirements some time ago, and there was a broad consensus to ensure the best possible against forced marriage through this legislation, and in addition to the maintenance requirement, there are separate rules for an interview scheme to ensure against it. The maintenance requirement, which we now have to assess in the ministry, is also necessary to go through, on the basis that we both ensure participation in the labour market and take into account the fundamental desire for sustainability, and in other words do not contribute to the increased welfare burden on society, simply through the way the legislation is designed. When it comes to the issue of change, I – it also pointed to the interpellant – have this in mind now. The aim is to get back to this question in a short time. As regards both the pro forma issue and the comments on individual cases, it is that the individual cases are dealt with by the non-resident authorities. In addition to good general competence in this area, it is also very important to ensure good land skills and good procedural capacity. It is not right for the Minister of Justice to comment on individual cases – I do not have knowledge that does it right, nor does I have authority related to decisions that make it possible. But it is obvious that this legislation is not designed for moralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1298	This interpellation is really two debates in one. First, it is about family immigration, a collective term for family reunification where the parties have lived together before the reference person came to Norway, and family establishment, when the applicant wants to live with a person already residing in Norway. As the Council of State has pointed out, family immigration was an important theme when the Stortinget dealt with new foreign law in April 2008. All parties then agreed that it is an important part of the integration policy that the reference person should be able to support himself and the family members who come to Norway. But then we are also at the heart of the second debate, which concerns much more than the issue of family immigration, namely the debate on equality between men and women in Norway, or more precisely: gender inequality in relation to the relationship between men and women and the labour market. It is about traditional gender roles in the choice of education, narrower professional choices, lower pay, more part-time and longer periods away from professional life due to care responsibilities. When the reference person himself has a migrant background, the difference between male and female links to the labour market is even greater for some groups. In the public debate, we can often get the impression that this issue primarily concerns family immigration where the reference person is Norwegian, but less than half of the reference persons have a Norwegian or Nordic background. When you're going to discuss the gender dimension in this, it's also an important point to include. Lack of equality between men and women has consequences in many areas — take only the pension debate as an example. The family immigration rules are a parallel example to that. Either in one area or another, the question is really the same. How many of these differences between men and women can be reconciled by laws and regulations in areas other than where the problem is in reality? I will be the first to share in discussing positive discrimination in order to achieve equality between men and women, or between ethnic Norwegians and immigrants, for that matter. In many areas, it is fully possible to remedy at least some of the consequences of the fundamental lack of gender equality. In the field of family immigration, it is more demanding, at least as regards the level of income requirements themselves. But some of these matters are about things other than the income requirement itself. Like all other legislation, this also has some obvious unintended effects that it must be possible to look at. UDI has reported some of these on request from the Ministry of Justice. They are now being evaluated. In the Municipal Committee, we are currently discussing a matter of this. At the UDI Spring Conference on 22 May this year, the theme of family immigration was highlighted from several points of view. In the case of students, the time taken from a reference person actually meets the income requirement and until an application has been completed, in the case of families who have resided abroad, or in the case where the reference person has had a temporary leave from a permanent position. We are not EEA citizens in our own country, probably the difference between Norway and Denmark to which the interpellant referred and which will be the same opposite. So we can ask the questions: maybe it should open up for greater understanding? Maybe we should get some more exceptions from the requirements that apply? In the end: there are large differences in the grant rate according to the nationality of the applicant. For example, the acceptance rate is about 90 pst. in the case of applicants from Thailand, the Philippines and Russia, while 120 applications from, among others: Somalia, Morocco and Turkey were rejected on grounds of pro forma. This may, of course, be due to realities, but we should at least consider whether any of these differences can be explained on the basis of attitudes and gender differences. The theme is difficult with many dilemmas. It is not least illustrated by the fact that the interpellant does not have a clear answer to what should be done, in addition to claiming that the government is making mistakes. But the Left itself belonged to a government that sent an income claim equal to salary level 15 at the hearing, and today it is known as 8. For my part, I think it is very positive that the Council of State has already taken the initiative to review these difficult issues. I think with my hand on the heart on behalf of the entire municipal committee can promise that the matter we have to deal with in the committee, we will take it very seriously, because these are matters that are very important to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1315	It is important that this matter is also discussed in Stortinget. We had a debate last week at UDI's spring conference on the same topic, but it is quite obvious that there are some uncertainties, or at least uncertainties, around the grounds of rejection and why it is that women get less family start-ups than men, if you look at the percentage. As a starting point, the Right principle is that all immigration to Norway that does not concern protection against persecution should assume that one is able to support himself and his family. All parties agree on this. At least when we dealt with the Foreign Affairs Act in 2008, which was the subject of the previous speech, it was an overall increase that stated that the maintenance requirement had to be in place. There has been a discussion about how high it should be. Today it's pay step 8, i.e. 232 400 kroner a year is the income you must have. I can't say it's particularly loud. When the objective is to be able to support yourself and their families, it is quite a reasonable requirement, which shows that Norway has a generous family reunification and family establishment system. Then there are these points that the representative Trine Skei Grande makes in his speech, and that the Minister of Justice now says she's looking at. We in the Right are happy for that. We would like to have a review of this and think it is important that it is taken up. What I've received most of the enquiries about is just this income limit in terms of when you've earned the 232,000. So if you have an annual income of NOK 450,000 in 2012, but you didn't earn anything in the previous year, you won't get a family reunion. It seems very unreasonable. I believe that someone with a slightly greater flexibility must be able to look at the existing income and not just shiver until last year. After what I understand, there are very few other countries, if any, that practice the law that way. That's probably also the case, as I've got it referred to from the meeting with, among other things. Borderless love working on these issues, that many of the male partners who want to enter Norway and unite, or marry, have often been denied because of lack of or insecure identity. It could have something to do with where they come from. It was referred to women from the Philippines, Thailand and Russia, who are mainly allowed to stay because they have a good identity, which there is no reason to ask questions, while some of the male applicants come from countries that make it more difficult to establish their identity. These are among the things that the Ministry of Justice is now sure to look at in its assessments. I am sure that now, with the focus on this matter, it will be a review that will provide us with a code that does not discriminate against sex, but which is nevertheless clear that the maintenance requirement is not something that one should have an exception from. The maintenance requirement is there, but the maintenance requirement needs to be practised in my opinion in such a way that it also differentiates between the income that the reference person in question currently has and not only in the previous year. I look forward to further consideration of the matter in the committee and that the Minister of Justice will return to Stortinget once the legislation has been reviewed and the matter has been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1333	My attempt here today is to say that the gender equality debate in Norway today is not just about paper and quota, as can be seen in the main hall. It can also deal with what the representative of Greece said that boundless love has taken on board as one of the main themes. The representative Lise Christoffersen said that we do not have proposals, but we actually have a Document 8 proposal in the committee with our proposals for amendments in this area. I really hoped that the representative had come along. When we adopt policies here, we need to be able to look at the impact of that policy, and we need to be able to look at what it leads to. The left is also for the maintenance requirement – just as the Right is for the maintenance requirement. We're neither for forced marriage, nor that you should be able to bring people here who can't be entertained or work sails, but we want to have a deal with the legislation, so that we actually achieve the goals we've set. When people who come here have already received a permanent job with future income, or have shown that they have a regular job with steady income, for example, are: travelling around the world with their loved one year is not good enough to deny that they will get into the country – when both of them have regular jobs with good pay in the future. It is the handling, the flexibility, the flexibility that we want to incorporate into the legislation, which means that we achieve the objective of the law – without all the problems we see today, because that is the effect of the maintenance requirement we have now seen of – also that it has a high gender perspective. There are many challenges in this field that we could have addressed, but I still think that the point related to the proforma is unanswered. Here I think there are many prejudices, and there are many prejudices associated with women and men in the way of enforcing this. Then there is a major challenge in treatment in terms of achieving a flexible and simple regulatory framework. Or as Greta wrote to me: ‘I know of several cases in which they have been denied due to a lack of documents, so the thorough and fair proceedings the Minister of Justice boasts of are many who have not experienced. I work at a technical department myself, and know that the missing documents are requested before the applications are processed. It is a paradox that those who want to build a garage have better rights than my children who have been forcibly separated from their father for 3 years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1349	The central thing in this debate from my point of view is that we need to go through and see if there are unintended outcomes of the current legislation. There is no doubt that life is diverse in this area as well, and that establishing good legislation that is capable of dealing with the different situations is demanding. Having said that, I believe that we basically have a code in place that follows up the intentions that have also been put in this room, and that we have a foreign administration that strives to ensure that the individual matters are well informed and that decisions are taken under the law. However, there are some challenges that it is right to address. The starting point is, as I said, to make sure that we don't get equality outcomes that are unacceptable. With regard to maintenance requirements, we have discussed in many contexts both the four-year rule and the level. Last year's income documentation has also been a topic. One of the adaptations that we have rightly seen in practice is that you accept the declaration and not the final equation, which also helps to save a few months in relation to the time it takes to document the necessary information. As far as the level of the maintenance requirement is concerned, it is, as I said, so that we will do a review here, and we will come back with any changes in this area as well in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1360	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1374	Local democracy is one of the strongest values in Norwegian central government and society otherwise. The conclusion that we should have local elected bodies is constant and strong at all levels of government and among the population — fortunately. It is an important guardian of democracy, and the structure we have chosen has been decisive in finding new ways to solve welfare tasks. The municipalities have been and are a decisive piece in the puzzle called the Norwegian representative democratic welfare state. The municipalities themselves have moved more real power closer to individuals and communities. This is a fundamental social democratic value. The proposal to legislate local democracy has been in the Stortinget earlier in various variants. There has been a broad and lengthy debate that has been going on over several major periods, and there are several opinions on the implications and interpretation of such a proposal – both now and in the future. It has also been a debate within the parties during this period before the proposal is now in the Chamber. The working party and SV agree on their comments, which I want to address. The progress party is involved in most of these and the conclusion, but they also have their own comments, for which they will probably do well. The Centre supports the conclusion of the Committee but also has its own comments. The Left, Right and Christian People's Party also have their own comments, which they will probably take up afterwards. I chose to keep an open listener, as a case manager. In the audience, KS, Professor Anne Lise Fimreite and researcher Yngve Flo met. There was a good opportunity for us to get better knowledge and get important problem settings. That overruled the question was and is: what does it mean to legislate local democracy in Norway, as the proposal leads to? Furthermore, it was important for us to have certainty about whether such a proposal would change the balance of power between the state and the municipality, and whether a change would lead to a change in legal practices. In the past, the proposal has been rejected for several reasons, including: the topic of local self-government has been used as a basis for rejecting the proposal. This time it is not such a proposal that is being made, and it was important for us to understand whether there is a real difference between the use of local self-government and local democracy, which is now being used, in a future interpretation. Last – and most importantly for us: The Labour Party was and is aware of whether a fundamental law of local democracy will strengthen it, and whether basic law fits into our model. And if it doesn't want any real political or legal change, what will the consequences of constitutionalising local democracy be? There are several countries that have constitutional local democracy in different variants. I think it is a heavy argument that Norway has committed itself through the Charter of the Council of Europe to legislating local democracy, or local self-government, as it says. However, it should be noted that Norway has been successful in its model, where the State is a strong player and a premiscuous provider for a fair and equal treatment of its citizens, regardless of geographical addition. The principle of local democracy is anchored in our national legislation and is a strong and fundamental value. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left believe that the wording and intention of the Europe Convention of 15 October 1985 on Local Self-Government in that context are considered to be fulfilled. This opinion is also shared by the Municipal Law Committee, as in the context of Ot.prp. No 42 for 1991-1992 on the Local Government Act stated the following on the Convention: ‘In the opinion of the sample, it is difficult to say that it is directly required by a constitutional attachment of the local self-government in Norway.’ The objective of the Charter and the proposal is to strengthen the position of local democracy and to protect it. That's good intentions. The question is whether this is achieved with just basic legislation. It's not as obvious as it can be seen. Europe's political map shows that states with constitutional local democracy have much weaker and less influential local self-government than we do. Since there is no delimitation of what is local, in several countries, such as Finland and France, it has not been shown to be a strength for the administration of municipal interests or power. Therefore, it has not been given that the constitutionalisation of local democracy in Norway is ‘practical’, as stated in the Charter. Previous proposals have been put to the vote in this Chamber, including: with the reason that the revamp used then, "local self-government", was too bastant. The Committee has been busy with the differences in reality between the concepts of local self-government and local democracy in a constitution – especially in a future interpretation. From all of the speakers it was found that a future interpretation would not make a difference between the scope of the Norwegian administrative structure, even if the proposers did. The possibilities for interpreting this change lie in the political landscape in the future. The Committee's plurality, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left are concerned that local democracy should have the best conditions. So are the other parties. The underlying proposal calls for a desire to go back to something original, as Professor Anne Fimreitte said in the hearing – to stop a development. Nibbles newbie Is that the administrative municipality? Is that the autonomous municipality? That's not a complete answer. In the proposal and in the debate on basic legislation, there is also a desire to strengthen the municipality. But will this proposal lead to such a strengthening? Would self-governing and self-governing be the result? Although the draft constitution would result in a positive delimitation of self-government, it could also form a static framework around it. What has been ambiguous and the dynamic relationship between management levels can be frozen and uniform. The ability of local authorities to cooperate within and across borders has resulted in the municipality as a pioneer and a ladder in the public sector. We all depend on the innovations and new crime in our welfare system made by the municipalities. At the same time, we set a good example of this, for example: school-time arrangements, the school for six-year-olds and the cultural school. There is therefore every possible reason to take seriously the fact that firmer frameworks around municipal self-government can lead to a reduction in the relevance of municipalities and the disappearance of some of the flexibility and dynamics of the system. The uncertainty that a fundamental law actually limits self-government is a policy set of norms that should be burdensome. During the hearing, we found information that we cannot ignore. Both KS, historians, state suites and in other contexts lawyers have also discovered that this proposal could change the practice of division of tasks in Norway in future interpretation. If the State is to give tasks through regulations or laws, today's system of letters of expectation and circulars may be difficult. It was also found that we can experience a stagnation in the dynamics between the municipality and the state, an interaction that has solved and found solutions to create perhaps the world's best welfare system, and that a fundamental law-making can have consequences for legal practices. This includes, among other things: our questions that have been crucial to the position the Labour Party has taken on this issue. There are no doubt challenges related to the regime between administrative levels today. Local authorities experience too many demands and the need to take political action to ensure good working conditions and cooperation. I'm sure a lot of local politicians will agree with me on that. But these are problems that must be settled politically, not through the Constitution. The challenges we face between the state and the municipality, cannot be solved in a constitutional change. In the hearing, however, it was pointed out that adopting the wording could be seen as a minimum measure that we have not seen historical or political examples of strengthening local democracy. It has been claimed that a rejection of this proposal means the same thing as being against local democracy. It is not. We want the best for local democracy, and we want the country to offer the best possible services to its population. But when we learn that the proposal can have several unfortunate consequences — which can actually lead to the opposite of what we want, and that the fundamental law of local democracy can negatively affect just local democracy, there is a risk that we are not willing to take. With this, I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1419	Let me first thank the rapporteur for a thorough and good work on the committee's position and for a very good review and problematisation of the aspects raised by this proposal. Let me first say that it is not disputed in this Chamber – or in so many other halls, I think, in the country – that we should have a local democracy. But we must remember that the Constitution is not just a political document, it is also a legal document. Changes in the Constitution are meant to have an effect, and perhaps also in this context. What has made the Progress Party a little skeptical about the wording itself here is not that we do not believe that the fundamental law of local democracy is a good idea, but we believe that this proposal needs to be more problematic, and must be seen in a slightly larger context than the proposal does. One challenge is that the proposal as it exists may indicate a kind of restriction of the state's governance vis-à-vis municipalities. So when you talk about self-government or democracy, as it was said in the hearing, you talk about municipalities having a kind of core business to run over. This may pose some challenges in terms of the level of detail the government can face in relation to the activities of municipalities, and one can then picture a situation where, for example, municipalities. refuses to implement an order from the government because they believe that the imposed is the detailed management of local democracy to a large extent. It will be a rather unfortunate situation, and we have to at least get to know the facts a little bit more closely before you can find out which formulation fits best in the Constitution. There is a restriction to this proposal, and it is that the municipalities should be governed only in two ways: either by law, that is, by decision in this Chamber, or by agreement, that is, an agreement between executive and either each municipality or KS, for example. It is a completely new governance regime in relation to the governance regime we have with the municipalities today, where the direct ability of the state to govern the municipalities is much greater. It can also be thought that this creates some challenges related to this ROBEK system that we have, where the state more or less takes over the governance of municipalities at a very detailed level. There can be some uncertainty as to how far the state can go in its direct management of the municipalities. But I would like to make it clear once again that in the Advancement Party we are very concerned that local democracy will flourish and evolve. And we're concerned about getting you anchored in the Constitution of Local Democracy. For this reason, the country meeting of the Progress Party this year has adopted its own resolution in this area, asking for a slightly comprehensive proposal relating to the constitutionalisation of local democracy, where one can assess different alternatives to one another. What is one of the weaknesses of this proposal is that this is a proposal that only has one alternative. There are no limits or other possibilities to amend a proposal submitted in the case of constitutional proposals. Therefore, in order to have a broad and good debate on how the fundamental law of local democracy can take place, we will at least come, and certainly in cooperation with several other parties – I have, among other things. notice that the Central Party has signaled the same in the setting – to help make proposals with different variations and variants, which give a greater chance of reaching an agreement on which part or what part should be constitutionally established, and what should not. Now it's such a take-it-or-leave-it situation, and then it's my recommendation to the representatives of the Progress Party that in this round we say leave it, and then we get back to it in a comprehensive and real way for the next big time. I am aware that there are a couple–three pieces in our group that are unlikely to follow this recommendation, but the recommendation is nevertheless given.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1438	Norway has ratified the 1985 European Charter of Local Self-Government with the unanimous consent of the Storting. One did so in 1989. There was then no reservation for any part of the treaty. This implies that Norway has assumed the obligations arising out of Article 2 of the Charter, which reads: «The principle of local self-government shall be recognized in domestic legislation, and where practicable in the constitution.» Of the 26 European institutions, Norway is currently the only country that does not have such a constitutional provision in its constitution. Over the years, the idea of the fundamental legislation of municipal autonomy and local democracy has been supported by, among other things. The Municipal Law Committee and the majority of the Electoral Commission have also received support from the CS, as also appeared in the hearing. A fundamental law of local democracy will confirm the important role of local democracy both historically, today and in the future. A fundamental law-making will also protect local democracy and ensure the ability of the population to participate in direct and free elections to local bodies that govern local conditions. It has been used as an argument against fundamental law that the State’s freedom of action will be limited. A fundamental law of its own does not imply a new situation in the relationship between state and local authorities. It does not limit the freedom of action of the Grand Duchy either in terms of the ability to perform important national tasks or to further develop local self-government. A constitution will protect the principle of local, directly elected bodies which have legal or contractual tasks. I am very surprised that the constitutionalization of local democracy does not receive a constitutional majority today. This would be a natural follow-up to the constitutional changes made in 2007. It'll be to bring the Constitution into line with the state custom we've had since 1837. Here, there is a clear parallel to the founding of parliamentaryism, which was implemented 100 years after it was introduced by a general decision. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV, argue that local democracy works even if the principle has not been enshrined in the Constitution – yes, in the same way that parliamentaryism worked even if it was not constitutional. At the time, Carl I. Hagen, the President of the case simply touched on this question in his statement: ‘The Kosmo Committee found in its discussions that, in order to make extensive changes to the Constitution, it could also be appropriate to legislate parliamentarianism.’ This was agreed by a unanimous committee. Now it would also have been in place to legislate local democracy. This is recommended by several selections and has been discussed several times in this room. The problem has been that the concept of local self-government has been used in the past. This concept would problematize questions about the power of the Storting, and that is also why we, as proposers of this proposal, deliberately used the term 'local democracy'. The principle is that there should be local direct elected bodies. This is the core of a local democracy. It must not be possible to remove this by a general majority in the Grand Duchy. That is why, in my opinion, it is not possible to say with credibility that the proposal on the table could form a static framework around today's model, as the majority of the committee argues. However, the same majority fully supports their own argument when, just as above, they use against the proposal that it does not specify the type of local democracy to be enshrined in the constitution. The resistance of these parties to the fundamental law of local democracy gives cause for concern because, in practical politics, one also sees that it is the same parties that, on several occasions, want to restrict the freedom of action of the municipality and strengthen the power of the state at the expense of local democracy. In 2037, the country will celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Presidency Act. Continuing the development that we've seen in recent years, this becomes a mimre celebration of local democracy that once was. Should the anniversary year be a celebration of a strong local democracy, there is a need for larger and more robust municipalities that have gained more tasks and greater authority at the expense of the state. This, of course, will not be ensured by a fundamental law, but the fundamental law of local democracy will give the importance of having local direct elected bodies that govern local issues, a status and position in our constitution that it deserves. A living local democracy is the basis for a living democracy. With this in mind, I would like to address the proposal by the Right-wing Representative in the vote. Had it been possible to have a constitutional majority, it would, of course, be natural for us to subsidize proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1468	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1471	I would like to thank the case spokesman for a thorough and, not least, problematic approach to this issue. Initially, it was like SV had intended to vote in favour, and the group actually agreed on it. But then we had a hearing on the case where it became clear that many people thought that one could actually limit local democracy by such a decision. Thus, the signatures had to go back to their group and ask that we not actually adopt this proposal as it stands today – because it was uncertain whether it would actually limit local democracy instead of strengthening local democracy. To be honest, we listened to the hearing authorities and re-assessed them. The main problem was: what will this mean in practice? Is it going to strengthen local democracy, or is it not going to strengthen local democracy? It was kind of the big question, which wasn't answered well enough. I see that the KS believes that there is a good enough response. But at least that's how in my hearing I was, that there was actually a contradictory view of whether it would strengthen local democracy. The starting point for SV was that we wanted those who have shoes to have the most power over their own situation. That's the explanation for the position of SV today. Finally, I can say that one can also problem this with national, local and regional democracy up against, for example. The EEA Agreement and what it means for democracy. Does this mean that one increases its influence, or does it mean that one reduces its impact on the municipalities? Is it that the EEA Agreement limits what you can do as a politician or increases the impact of having an EEA agreement? These are also major issues which could well be raised in this debate, because it is a matter of getting a directive from Brussels, many of which one might not want. The last example is the Temporary Agency Directive, which allows local authorities to use several temporary workers against their will, at least in a number of municipalities, but of course one is for others. There are many interesting issues to discuss here, but just to conclude: we are quite a few with the Center Party, which is very clear that one will develop a new proposal that will clarify more specifically what one wants to strengthen local democracy. I also hope, as I heard the leaders of the committee, that the most possible party can join in, so that one can decide to strengthen local democracy the next time we have it to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1482	It's an important matter that we're dealing with, and there's no doubt about what's the Central Party's position: we want to base the municipal maritime administration. At the same time, we must be clear about the relationship between the role of the municipal maritime administration and the overall responsibility of the Storting. As others have pointed out, the rapporteur took the exemplary initiative for a hearing on the matter, and it was a consultation that led me to believe that all the members of the committee were enthusiastic about the introduction of new knowledge. It also showed that any draft constitution must be thoroughly worked on, both the text itself and the reasons for it, so that a necessary consideration should be given to the whole of the Constitution. What we experience in the discussion so far is that both representatives of the Progress Party, the Right and the SV have a clear positive attitude, and I also have a feeling that this is the same thing as is happening within the Workers' Party, but it requires, as I said, that we discuss the premises and the concrete wording. From the centre party we point out that the local government was not mentioned in a single word in the Constitution of 1814. The representative local bodies were first created in 1837 with the Presidency laws and were regulated by ordinary law. This was at the time a very great progress in the political development of the people and a very important complement to the Constitution. It was supposed to go over 150 years before there really arose a political ‘traffick’ to get the municipality into the Constitution. Constitutional conservatism was all in the 1800s a powerful force that contributed to this. Since the 1980s, several amendments to the Constitution – with varying wording – have been proposed with the aim of legislating the municipality and the municipal maritime administration. So here we are in the situation that there is a recurring case that so far has not been working widely enough and thoroughly enough to get the Constitution, despite many positive statements. The centre party points to the lack of a formal constitutional foundation, but there is still an ancient imaginative pooling between the municipalities and the Constitution. Historian Johan Ernst Sars claimed well over 100 years ago that the presidential laws of 1837 "considered such progress in terms of the political development of the people that they can almost be equated with the basic law itself". In connection with the 100th anniversary of 1937, another historian, Arne Bergsgård, wrote that the laws were a necessary complement to the Constitution, “the greatest and most important supplement that the constitution has ever received and could receive”. The Central Party further points out that from history it is also possible to bring forward actors who not only underline an ideological relationship with the Constitution but who go one step further and say that local democracy was truly constitutionally anchored. The 1945 Investigation Commission, appointed by the Stortinget, examined the behaviour of various social powers in the pre- and post-German attack in 1940. Suffice it to say that the Committee had been asked to address the subject of the investigation, the Committee chose on its own initiative to look at the National Socialist Reorganization of the Municipalities from December 1940 onwards. The argument was that the matter was in a special position because the municipal maritime administration should be considered part of the Constitution. The central party suggests that the underlying idea was probably that local democracy was rooted in constitutional practice. The Central Party will show that, after the German attack on the Kingdom of Norway in the spring of 1940, the Nazi regime, with its occupying power in its back later in the same year, exerted all its power to reorganize the Norwegian society, to transform it in line with national-socialist ideology. This advance was first put in place against the municipalities. Due to the lack of formal constitutional anchoring of the municipality, the NS regime was relatively light: one ministerial regulation was enough to abolish local democracy and introduce the principle of driver and liability with effect from 1941. This, which in retrospect was characterised as perhaps the greatest victor of Nazis won in Norway, was quite unlawful, but not contrary to a single constitutional paragraph. The centre party would point out that in the recent debate on the fundamental law of local democracy, there has been no evidence that the Constitution is a central part of national preparedness for external and internal enemies. The basic laws must also be dimensional for times that are different from our own, and for acute situations in the life of the nation. The centre party will remind you that what you can dismiss as a symbol policy today, one day in the future, however, can be an important weapon in a struggle that the posterity must wage. We would point out that the basic law of the municipal maritime administration is an important symbol in line with the current constitutional paragraphs dealing with, for example: the right to work and the right to a healthy environment. In this context, during the coming period, the Storting will receive a number of constitutional proposals as a result of the Human Rights Committee's investigation, which will similarly establish some major issues for which Norwegian society is to be governed. Therefore, this discussion will also be central in the coming period. We would like to point out that this draft constitution, in the wording of the proposed paragraph, speaks of «local bodies designated by direct and free elections». This can be seen as the implicit aim of the proposers to legislate the municipal maritime administration. The municipal maritime administration of Norway is inextricably linked to certain institutional elements: free choice, the status of the municipality as an independent legal entity, the right to tax and the right to take on tasks which are neither prohibited nor entrusted to other bodies. We would like to stress that a constitutional proposal on the municipal maritime administration should not be perceived as contrary to the stately rights and sovereignty of the Storting, and that it should therefore not be understood as requiring a constitutional change in order to change the municipal regime. We would point out that municipal maritime governance in the Norwegian context does not mean that the state should stay away from it, but that the state should govern wisely, with moderation and moderation. We point out that, in a sense, municipal maritime governance can be characterised as part of a state framework governance ideal – an ideal that the state has justly found difficult to live up to today's policy. Municipal maritime governance is not about municipal solitude. The characteristic feature of the Norwegian maritime administration is that this reflects the close interest of the community and the close trust links between the top and bottom of the management system. Norwegian municipalities exercise maritime governance when they use their own discretion to carry out tasks on behalf of the country. We would stress that mobilizing the people as advisers was an important motive already when the Presidency laws were designed. After the Second World War, the municipal sector was designed to be a supporter of the welfare state, with the same reason: the social system was not an obstacle, but on the contrary, something that added value to the state. Tens of thousands of populists across the country did a job one would have needed an army of state bureaucrats to do, and the local populists did the job better. The central party would therefore stress that the municipal maritime administration has acted as a part of an extension of state power and has introduced national policies, for example. within school, health and culture, a valuable layman’s component. By the fact that the municipalities have been able to translate national ambitions into local practice in a far more accurate way than the State would have been able to do, and precisely by the fact that the state has been active and made demands, the state has helped to make local democracy more powerful. Also in the future, the Stortinget should have the power to transform the municipal institution according to changing needs and assumptions. The fundamental law of the Maritime Administration shall not prevent such development and should therefore not be a weapon in the principle or case-oriented debate on the content or limits of the State governance of the Municipality. We believe that from this understanding, state power and municipal maritime governance are not perceived as a zero-sum game, that is, a system where it automatically gets smaller by one if it becomes more of the other. The municipal maritime administration and the Stortinget support each other on the contrary and help each other to achieve common objectives. However, there may be conflicts, especially if the state gives too little room for local political discretion, and sees municipal policy as a cost rather than an added value when national policies are to be implemented locally. We will stress that one of the most characteristic features of the municipal maritime administration is that it has stood – and stands – so strong in our people. We will therefore – on the basis of this understanding of the content of the municipal maritime administration, combined with the fact that the Constitution is to be a stronghold for democracy, even in acute situations in the life of the nation – go into the process of legislating the municipal maritime administration, which I explained at the outset. We are also of the opinion that the municipal maritime governance as a value and as a characteristic of the Norwegian state governance system should be highlighted as a separate paragraph of the Constitution. In the Central Party, we have noted the unanimous decision of the National Government of the KS on 24 May of this year, in which the proposal was unanimously supported. We see that as a strong signal to us at the Stortinget to continue working on this in order to get a majority, which is necessary, to get it into the Constitution. That is why we say that when the Central Party cannot accept the present Constitutional Law on its grounds, we will present our own proposal before the next Grandsession, in line with the position I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1529	In most democratic countries of Europe, the Constitution provides for local democracy or autonomy. Among 26 European institutions, the Norwegian Constitution is the only one that does not have a provision to that effect. The Council of Europe has put municipal autonomy at the heart of its efforts to build and consolidate democracy in Europe. This was expressed, among others. The Council of Europe endorsed the Charter of Local Self-Government of 15 October 1985 as a condition for membership of the new democracies of Central and Eastern Europe, in line with the accession to the European Convention on Human Rights following the fall of the Soviet Union. Norway, with the unanimous consent of the Storting, ratified the Charter of Local Self-Government on 26 May 1989. No reservation was made for any part of the Treaty. This implies that Norway has assumed the obligations arising out of this Charter. Over the years, the idea of basic legislation on municipal autonomy has also been supported by, among other things. The Municipal Law Committee, the Electoral Commission and the KS, as expressed at the Committee’s hearing. Proposals for basic legislation on municipal autonomy have been put forward several times in Stortinget. Proposals to this effect have been examined and rejected in 1988, 1999, 2003 and last in 2007. The reasons for the rejection include, inter alia: that it can be discussed whether the concept of local self-government is a sufficiently precise concept of the position of local democracy in relation to the state power. It has been argued that a fundamental law of local self-government may restrict the State's freedom of action and flexibility, as it would be implicit in such a fundamental law that state authorities would have to govern the state in detail municipalities and county municipalities less. In the 25 countries that provide for this in the Constitution, different terms are used. An option that circumvents the issue of a restriction on the State’s freedom of action is to legislate local democracy. This will mean that the local elected level is anchored in the Constitution, and that Norway is thus fulfilling its obligations with regard to the Charter of Local Self-Government. There are many ways in which this compromise proposal put all the parties behind in the previous period, and we are going to take a decision today. As I said, with the unanimous consent of the Storting, we ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government in 1989. The Christian People's Party believes that this provides clear leadership for the Member States – including Norway. Among 26 European institutions, Norway is currently the only country that does not have such constitutional provisions in its constitution. I would like to stress that a fundamental law of local democracy will confirm the important role of local democracy, both historically, today and in the future. A fundamental law-making will also protect local democracy and ensure the democratic participation and influence of the population. Different arguments have been used against such a fundamental law, including: that the State's freedom of action will be limited. It is then important to point out that a fundamental law in itself does not imply a new situation in the relationship between the State and local authorities. It does not restrict the freedom of action of the Storing, either in terms of the ability to perform important national tasks or to further develop local self-government. I also do not understand the argument that such a fundamental law could freeze the relationship between the state and the local government sector. As I said, a basic law will not affect the right of the Grand Duchy to decide on the tasks and competences of the municipality, the geographical breakdown and the levels of administration that Norway should have. The proposal now in the Stortinget will bring Norwegian law into line with the Treaty obligations assumed by Norway following the Charter of Local Self-Government, and it will also be more consistent with the law of other European countries. The Christian People's Party will vote to legitimize local democracy. That is why I am addressing the proposal that we are taking on board in this matter, which is option 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1555	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1558	Local democracy or our local government is older than parliamentarianism and older than our party system. That's the foundation for us having the political system that we have. As many have pointed out, it is also a European commitment that we should now have included in the Constitution by legislating such an important part and a principle as important in our constitution as moving power closer to the citizens, where it is best. I don't think it's like getting a debate for or against local democracy, but it's clear that the content of local democracy is different between the different parties. There are many attempts to show differences between lots in this respect. Some researchers from the University of Oslo conducted a study some time back, in which they went through all debates on the Stortinget and characterised the opinions of the individual parties on the basis of the ‘centralistic’ or ‘localised’ scale. That review showed that 94 pst. by the statements made by SV from this pulpit were characterised as ‘centralist’. On the other hand, we found the left there only 6 pst. the opinions were defined as ‘centralistic’. KS has also carried out a survey related to the view of local democracy among its own, and the centre parties, and then I take with the centre party, are clearly in front of this, in fact together with the Right and Advance Party, while the Workers' Party and especially SV are far below the average in terms of the vision of what local democracy can contribute. So we add different content to it when we say here that we are in favour of local democracy, because it is reflected in many of the other political debates we have here, and the many opinions we have. The vast majority of the aspects of this proposal have been identified, but what is most frustrating for me who has been involved in some major periods is that the argument against this is that it is a take-it-or-leave-it proposal. This has been promoted for almost all the major periods, and it has been open to all the parties to promote their own proposal, when they say that the proposal is not good enough. Now I hope that those who have expressed positive support for local democracy, but who do not want to support the proposal today, actually take it in and deliver a proposal that they can support in the next period – if they seriously believe that they are positive to such a type of formulation in our constitution. I'm going to be here for another period, and when we're going to re-examine the proposal, I'm going to check whether those who expressed great fascination at the constitutionalization of local democracy have been able to deliver a proposal they can actually vote for in the Chamber as well. We in the Left will do as we have done every year, namely to vote in favour of the proposal we have supported. We, together with the Christian People's Party, will also vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1575	Let me first say that Norway has strong local democracy, and must have strong local democracy – and, as the representative Schei Grande said, local democracy is considerably older than parliamentarianism. Let me add that local democracy is also an important part of the Norwegian model. I listened to the debate last week on the relationship between the state and the municipality. It was a very exciting and interesting debate. I believe that this is how we should deal with both local democracy and the division of roles between levels of government – which requires political flexibility and flexibility and the ability to further develop policies and local democracy. Municipalities are the service producer of the welfare state. How are kindergartens to be distributed? What kind of elderly care should it be? How are we going to regulate different parts of the municipality? This is decided by local democracy. The organisation of local democracy and the relationship between levels of government must be dynamic and there must be flexibility. The principle of local democracy is rooted in our national legislation, and that is where it belongs. And let me add that there is a difference between lawmaking and lawmaking. The Constitution is a legal document granting some rights. The Constitution establishes principles, general principles of the state, which can be enforced by the courts, and incorporates them into the Constitution because it should not be changed. You do something very static. We are also very constitutional conservative in many ways in our country, although we are now going to change the language. Lawmaking means that we change laws – and we can do that all the time – based on the evolution of society and the framework conditions it provides. With regard to the wording and intention of the European Council Convention of 15 October 1985 on Local Self-Government, we believe that, on the part of the Workers' Party, and also of the SV, it is fulfilled in the light of that legislation. So it's interesting, and the case rapporteur had a both problematic and very good review of this, that the countries that have constitutionalized local democracy don't necessarily have such a very strong local democracy. Maybe France is the best example of this. It is also a question of whether constitutionalising will strengthen the municipalities or local democracy. Basic law may mean a freeze on the organisation of local democracy at the time when the Constitution is amended. And what is it really today that we're being asked to make a Constitutional Celebration? It may hinder the dynamic development of local policies and the treatment of issues locally through different framework conditions in society, and I think that is a good reason not to vote in favour of the proposal currently under consideration. It is such that the state has overall responsibility, the Stortinget has overall responsibility, we lay central governance frameworks, and we get political decisions on implementation locally, as well as increasing numbers of areas being added to local democracy in municipalities and county municipalities. Then I would like to point out to the case-rapporteur that during the hearing, it emerged that fundamental law-making could change the practice of division of tasks in Norway. If we decide, do we base the city model of the day – or do we? But we do not specify which type – perhaps a stagnation in the dynamics between the state and the municipality that can hinder the further development of our welfare society, which, in my view, must always be improved and renewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1602	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox On a proposal from the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6-12 is treated as a whole. - It's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1687	Today, the Stortinget has seven different constitutional proposals, all of which have in common that they relate to different approaches to what we can call civil and human rights. For Document No: 12:4 for 2007-2008, on the right to housing, Document No. 12:5 for 2007-2008, on the protection of sex and discrimination against minorities, Document No. 12:12 for 2007-2008, on freedom of expression and religion, Document No. 12:17 for 2007-2008, on the right to asylum, Document No. 12:18 for 2007-2008, on privacy and personal data, Document 12:19 for 2007-2008, on equality of law and fundamental legal certainty guarantees and Document No. 12:22 in 2007-2008, on the protection of life. This may give the impression, at first glance, that it applies to all human rights. It doesn't. The rapporteurs will also be aware of this and certainly justify it. The majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee – the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right – has come to the conclusion that it is not appropriate to deal with these individual proposals now, i.e. during this period. We do so by reference to Document No. 16 for 2011–2012, which is a report from the Human Rights Committee, which was submitted to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy on 19 December last year. This sample has been working for a few years to look at an overall approach to human rights enshrined in the Constitution. The selection was led by Inge Wohnung, and has had a cross-political composition. They proposed a limited revision of the Constitution, with the aim of strengthening the position of human rights in national law by giving the rank of fundamental human rights. The report is currently under consideration — in one way or another — in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and the Committee is due to give its opinion in the autumn. When I say 'in a way', it is because of course constitutional proposals must be promoted by individual members, not by a committee. Therefore, the aim of the committee procedure is to organise a consultation so that interested parties can contact the committee and have their proposals noted and registered. It's important for the treatment. I would like to add that it may be a very unusual treatment, but it is an example of a very thorough treatment, with prior investigation and then committee examination in Stortinget to record how the proposals are received by different groups. From the mandate of the Human Rights Committee: ‘The Constitution regulates some fundamental human rights. Today's tradition of individual revisions of regulations makes both the theme and the angle of incidence seem rather random. For treatment in the coming period, there are several constitutional proposals on, inter alia, discrimination, the right to housing and the right to asylum. It is therefore necessary to look at the different constitutional provisions on human rights in a context with a view to cleaning up and adapting the Constitution to current conditions.» As far as the mandate of the sample is concerned. In the context of the follow-up to this report by the Human Rights Committee, the majority of the Committee considers that an overall assessment of the place of human rights in the Basic Law must be carried out and that new constitutional proposals must be promoted in the light of this. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that it is not appropriate to consider the present individual proposals in substance. I would like to stress that this does not imply a stand on the proposals individually. So voting them down is not an expression that you necessarily think it's wrong. It's an expression that you want a different form of treatment to see different human rights in context. Then, too, the members of the committee – I think all of them – thought that the proposals could be promoted in different variants. There has been some disagreement on some of the proposals of the Wage Committee, and proposals have been made by leading professors and other competent people and bodies. These will be included in the proposals promoted by Stortinget, so that in the next period you will not be able to stand on the pulpit and say: I am in favour of this right, but I would prefer a different wording. Then I hope that it will be possible to gather on a very broad and cross-political basis to incorporate many proposals for human rights into the Constitution. They are there in part today, but in part they also have the status of the Convention and have been acceded to by the Storting in such a way that they are treated in line with a constitutional provision. A comprehensive overview of human rights and different values in our welfare society is not possible today. Perhaps it will be possible for this forthcoming revision to do so. I therefore recommend to the Right-wing Representatives that the proposals be rejected, and I have reason to believe that the same recommendations are accepted by representatives of the Labour Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1718	I fully agree with the reasoning that the rapporteur, the representative Foss, now presented on behalf of the majority, but only with a small addition, that the Central Party also belongs to this majority. It is true that there is a lot of good content in the proposals that have been promoted, and that in each way addresses important human rights issues that it is absolutely necessary that the Storting deal with in a neat and proper way. Of course, one method would have been that we had actually been dealing with the proposals today. We have that on our own. When I say that in this way, it is because, when the Workers' Party Group has examined the seven proposals to be put into effect here today, they have been dealt with with in the context of the explicit premise that we should come back to reality in several of these proposals through the follow-up of the Storting's own human rights committee – as the rapporteur, Foss, has said. That's a very sensible way to do it, I'd say, because it was the Presidency of the Biggest and the Biggest that reduced the Human Rights Committee. They've done a very thorough and great job. If it's to be taken seriously, it's very important that we see all the proposals in the context. So the work to be done in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, together with the large-scale groups within this period, must have the objective of creating the greatest possible majority for the reality of the proposals for which there should be a constitutional majority in the next period. Now, of course, the next big thing is completely free to decide what they want, but nevertheless this will be the best way to deal with it, not only structurally, but also in view of the fact that we're going to be able to get a constitutional majority behind important human rights that we might have to include in the Constitution in the next period. Some other way to handle the Human Rights Committee seriously is hard to imagine if the Stortinge were to handle each of the proposals that are now under consideration, individually. It would at least make parts of that treatment difficult. We in the Workers' Group will go into this and have our discussion, in line with what the representative Foss said, namely that we want to have a discussion on which proposals we think it is most important to go into in this process. We will go into this and have it discussed, so that we can participate in the presentation of the proposals within the time limit set by the Constitution itself. This is why I would recommend the Workers' Group not to accept the seven proposals that will be considered in the near future. It doesn't mean – I just stress it, I also, although it is quite implicit in everything that has now been said – that we reject realities in some of these proposals, but that we are going to come back to it in the context that I have now explained. I just want to say one thing at the end – which I think is an experience that the whole Stortinget shares with me: there are many good realities in many proposals that are promoted in connection with the Constitution, but it often happens that one proposal is dealt with separately, and that often does not make it a necessary constitutional majority. With the process that we now have in this important field – which is linked to human rights and the relationship with the Constitution – we have the opportunity to be able to do it in a proper and better way, if the next enlargement is in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1735	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a very good piece of work. I fully agree with the content of the post to the case rapporteur, Foss, and also with the main part of the post that the representative of Kolberg now had. To what extent human rights are to be incorporated into the Constitution is an important debate, and it is in a way with a small bismach we have to deal with it this way, because one can get the impression that the committee has done this superficially. But the reality, as the rapporteur has well explained, is the opposite. It's the special situation of the Human Rights Commission set up by the presidency that makes it possible for us to actually look at the human rights of the Constitution in an overall perspective. We've never been in the position before that we can go into this work with the width and the weight that this investigation has given, and that this area actually deserves. The Progress Party could support several of the Constitutional proposals that exist today, and I am absolutely convinced that this applies to all parties. When we choose this approach angle, it's because it would complicate the work on the broad and important compromises of the next big period if we were to adopt some of the proposals that are now under consideration. It would simply make the Basic Law less comprehensive and the clean-up work bigger in a system that we are now trying to put together, among other things. through the examination of the position of the Committee on Control and Constitution of the Committee on Human Rights, where there is a cross-political consensus on the way we are now going to proceed in order to ensure that we have a «package solution». This means that we really focus very much on human rights and their place in the Constitution – both in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and the rest of the United Kingdom – but that it gets the strange outcome of this treatment that the insertions are quite short and consensual, and that we have a principle approach that we will not go into reality until the next period. It is therefore not because we do not take the proposals seriously – rather, on the contrary, we take the proposals so seriously that we will see them in a context during the next major period. Then it is absolutely crucial, as the rapporteur said, that we get these proposals in a sufficient number of alternatives that allow the Storting to gather on these key human rights and their place in the Constitution. In the meantime, it is good to be assured that the place of human rights in the Norwegian judicial system is very well protected by the Human Rights Act, which has been unanimously adopted in this Chamber many years ago. Fortunately, this postponement will not bring about any reality in terms of the position of human rights. But it is important that we take that debate thoroughly; it does the Control and Constitutional Committee, it does the Storting, and that is why we have the approach in the matters we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1748	I thank the case spokesperson for submitting many good SV proposals that Per-Kristian Foss briefed on. I take up the suggestions – so I don't forget it – that we seem to be alone or together with others. One could, of course, deal with these proposals as requested by SV – for example: The debates on housing, where I think many would fall off and not be with us in that it should be a constitutional right to live. A lot of people would probably have jumped off, because it would have economic consequences for Norway how we're going to run housing policy. It's something of the intention of the SV's side, that in the world's richest country – and one of the coldest – people must have a roof over their heads. One must have a dwelling to go to, and it doesn't all have today. That is unworthy – or we who make this proposal. We should start that faster by cleaning up, because it is absolutely necessary for the dignity of Norwegian society. Let me pursue some policy in this matter as well. When we discuss, for example, The agency directive, is one of the reasons why SV opposes it, is that it is harder for young people to borrow money from banks when they do not have a regular job. When you're going to go to the bank and say I'm just a temporary worker, I'm just rented and rented out, etc. – you will not get the loan you need to build a dwelling. It is an important premise for the debate on the temporary agency directive. And it is important for SV that in this country, in this cold country – sometimes at least – people should have housing. Let me also include a little about the housing market for the time being. In my own area, Stavanger, many nurses and archaeologists and other public workers who have jobs say that they may have to move because they don't have housing and housing markets are so tough that they don't count on the pay they have when they want to get hold of their heads. It's also a perspective when the economy becomes so that people who work in the public sector can't afford a place to live. It's a sign of weakness that we need to focus more on in the future. The other suggestions I can spend less time on. I'd like to suggest that the Left spends some time on asylum cases, right to asylum. It is a very central issue for the time being, when we have been told that we should have a different practice from the UDI. The director who tried to go out with something else has been put in place. When it comes to discrimination against sex and minorities, I think it's a little strange – it's probably the case-speaker from the Human Rights Committee to later – that we don't have a Nordic grip here. Iceland, Finland and Sweden have discrimination against minorities and gender in their constitutions. But then, when it comes down to voting today, we get to hope that one will come back stronger when Per-Kristian Foss puts forward his attitude about the whole picture, which is going to be very exciting, and where one really will get some good debates, I believe, on such social and real political issues that can have economic consequences, comes into the Constitution. That would be important for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1765	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1768	Let me start by saying that the Christian People's Party will support the majority of the Committee by referring to the Human Rights Committee and the work we are going to do on many of the issues we are dealing with today. Nor will we approve of all these matters, but we look forward to debating them in a wider context through what the Human Rights Committee has presented and which the Committee will continue to work on. Nevertheless, we have promoted our own basic law on the protection of life, which we invite the Stortinget to take a position on already today, that is. that we want it to be dealt with in reality, even though I also look forward to continuing that debate in the coming period in the context of the Human Rights Committee, where, therefore, the right to life has been included as one of the proposals we are going to discuss. But as I said, we want to promote our proposal on the protection of life, and that is this proposal I am going to focus on in my article here today. The struggle to legislate the right to life is one of the core issues of the Christian People's Party. On several occasions, we have put forward proposals for a separate constitutional provision which establishes the inviolability of human dignity and the right to life and physical integrity of all people. The right to life and human dignity is the fundamental principle of our cultural heritage. As a natural consequence, it should also, in our view, have been laid down in our constitution – not least this should be natural in a time when we feel that human life is more vulnerable than ever. For approx. A thousand years ago, Christian law was introduced in Norway. It paved the way for a new view of humanity, and with that there was a marked upgrade of human dignity. Over time, this view of man was further developed – we might say quality assured and updated – in response to new challenges. This is a process that is still in progress. This understanding of what a human life is, suggests that everyone has the same inviolable value, regardless of integrity, gender, faith, age, civil status or ethnic origin. These values are also key elements of the World Declaration on Human Rights of 1948 and other international conventions, but so far – in 2012 – there has not been an atmosphere here on the Stortingen to subdue them to the Norwegian Constitution. But as I said, I look forward to the debate we are going to have on this topic when we deal with the Human Rights Committee's proposal to legislate on the right to life. We'll get back to that then. In 1994, the Stortinget correctly adopted a new paragraph 110c, which says: "It is for the authorities of the State to respect and safeguard human rights." That's the closest thing you're going to do, for the time being, when it comes to legislating the right to life. The Christian People's Party and the undersigned do not doubt that the right to life and physical integrity has a great deal of upsurge in the Norwegian people – even here in Stortinget. If we asked, we would probably have confirmed that everyone considers the right to security of life and body as fundamental. No one will protest against such a thought. No, the father is rather that we take these values as a matter of course. But in this area we know that nothing is of course. If we look around us, we have to admit that human life is more threatened than ever. The use of violence is increasing, both in our society and elsewhere. Terrorism has also affected us. We are witnesses to racism, ethnic conflicts, human trafficking and slavery. We all feel a concern that ideologies that weaken respect for life and human dignity will get stuck, especially in the growing generation. In such a situation, there should be no reason to place less emphasis on respect for life and human dignity than before – rather on the contrary. However, the Christian People's Party believes that more than ever we need a tabular paragraph in our most fundamental law, which promises the right to life highly – not because such a paragraph alone will lead to so much concrete in the short term, but because for the future it will be an important reminder for everyone and everyone, and not least for the legislators, of the fundamental values on which our society and our law will build. Our society is becoming more and more complicated. Not least in the technological field. Researchers are still showing their innovation. This also applies to medical research, and part of this research takes place in the borderline between life and death. The Biotechnology Act is still challenging us. It is becoming increasingly important to find the right balance between ethics and technology, and in the debate on early ultrasound we are also challenged to take the big debate on the sorting society. The Biotechnology Act gives us opportunities and can do a lot for people. We also need to seize these opportunities, and we need to seize them while taking into account that biotechnology also touches on values that are central to our society – the value of man and a society with room for all. The right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights. Respect for human life and human dignity is also fundamental to our own cultural heritage. This is the actual support of our view of value. Our culture is built on the fact that all people have the same value, regardless of integrity, age, gender, civil status and ethnic origin. This right has shaped both legislation and ethical standards in our country. Man is entitled to both human dignity and life, because it is a human being. This is the starting point for our attitude to the trend we see today towards an emerging sorting society. Medical developments have made it possible to still face new problems, both in the first phase of life and at the end of life. An increasing number of diseases can already be identified at the stage of birth. With increasingly advanced foetal diagnostics, it opens up to sort out children on the basis of gender or disability. Many difficult ethical dilemmas are also raised around the end of life, for example. the duration of treatment, and without a law that specifically protects life, the risk may be that qualitative assessments of human dignity will be made. It's a development I want to warn against. I want to finish where I started, saying that for the Christian People's Party, the struggle for the fundamental law of the right to life is a core question. I am fully aware that we do not get agreement this time either. We get to live with that, but we'll hope that there are politicians in future periods too who, despite the lack of connection, will raise the tab of the most fundamental of all values, namely the right to life and human dignity. Nevertheless, it is important that future actors in political life are also confronted with these issues and have to address them. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1799	Then the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1802	Let me start by saying that the Left is going to support many of the proposals that are about to incorporate human rights into the Constitution, and we're going to support a lot of that process, as the rapporteur has described it. But we have nevertheless chosen to raise four of our primary proposals here today, because we believe they are important and correct, and we believe that they do not have to wait. The first proposal is on freedom of expression related to criticism and discussion of religion. The background to that proposal, probably the President, is based on the fact that, in recent years, there has been a debate about whether freedom of expression also concerns criticism of religion. There has been a debate about whether or not to draw caricatures of religious persons in the religions of others. For the Left, it is important to establish in the Constitution the inviolability of freedom of expression, including in the discussion of religion. That is why we are maintaining the proposal that we made in the previous period. The second proposal we maintain is the right to seek asylum. It is not the right to asylum, of course, but the right to seek asylum, which is a human right. We are constantly experiencing, including in the Norwegian debate, that there is a right to be put to the local referendum or to be stopped for other reasons. The right to submit an application for asylum is a fundamental human right and not a right to participate in a local referendum or to make other types of restrictions. That is why we believe that it is a human right that should be enshrined in the Norwegian Constitution. The third proposal that we choose to maintain is also influenced by the debate and by what I believe is constantly being challenged, namely the peace of privacy. Last year we had a heated debate in this Chamber related to the Data Storage Directive, and I believe it is important that Parliament says something about the fundamental rights of Norwegian citizens in terms of having a private life and that privacy should be protected. I also notice that it is part of what the Human Rights Committee has presented, and I sincerely hope that some of the formulations contained in that proposal will create a constitutional majority in the next period. The fourth, and last, proposal that we have chosen to maintain, is to legislate the guarantees of legal certainty. It's really strange that it's not in our constitution, because it's a pretty basic part of human rights and of our state organization. But there's also a right that's still being discussed and put under pressure. That is why we also want to maintain that proposal. I'm not going to comment on all of the other proposals that lie here, sail if I have to express a certain scepticism to the SV's proposal on housing rights, in relation to how many of our social rights are going to be constitutionalised, and how many of them are going to be legislated in other areas, and what practice such lawmaking will actually lead to. I believe that there are many good proposals here with regard to the protection against discrimination on grounds of sex and minorities, and there are many good proposals from the Wage Committee, so that we see no reason to maintain that proposal. The four proposals we want for voting relate to freedom of expression – based on criticism of religion – the right to asylum, privacy and fundamental guarantees of legal certainty. These proposals want the Left to vote in favour of this debate, and I take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1826	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1830	In the previous period, together with the representative Dagfinn Høybräten, the representative Laila Dåvøy and the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, I made proposals to amend Section 95(a) of the Basic Law for the protection of life. I want in this post to go a little bit into the reality of this proposal because the Christian People's Party is promising this matter, despite the consensus that is in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to also come back to these matters in the next period. There seems to be a broad consensus that respect for life and human dignity are fundamental values in our society. From that point of view, it may seem paradoxical that the majority refuses to legislate on the right to life, because the right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights. What would be more natural than that this court became part of our constitution? As human beings, we have a self-esteem, precisely by being a human being. None of us have made us deserve this, it's given us. With my view of man, society and nature, this perspective is absolutely fundamental. Today's Constitutional Drafts by the Christian People's Party affect the most fundamental right of them all – the right to life. All other rights depend on this one. Perhaps it is precisely this perspective – that we are talking about the most fundamental right – that makes this debate so important. The starting point for the Christian People's Party's policy is that all human life has the same infinite value. Today's proposal is about the right to life in all phases of life – from the beginning, by conception, to a natural death. For us, the life begins with the conception, already then everything is formed as the side becomes the man who grows, who evolves, and who eventually one day will die. It is the same individual who, in all phases of life, is entitled to be met with respect and dignity. With a statutory law in the Constitution, we will also clearly show our view of man. As a politician, I am valuable and not system-oriented. I am therefore concerned that there must be no instrumentalization of man, as I find such a way of thinking problematic in relation to the human dignity itself. With today's raging development in biotechnology, I think it's necessary to discuss, reflect, yes, maybe stop a little and think about the position of man. We need to see not only the potential that biotechnology gives us, but also the fragile line that is between ethics and technology. With today's strong emphasis on the right to life, life itself will be stronger in the face of technology. The limit between when a child born prematurely can live up to it, and when it has no opportunity, it becomes less and less. Yes, the recent debate on senaborts where abortions are abandoned to die, while in the neighbouring room trying to save a child about the same age, has shown this with all clarity. This is a current example, but the debate on life support is also an example of human dignity. The Christian People's Party wants a society with space for everyone. It's a society where all people have the same value, the same human world. Human dignity is not conditional on gender, where we come from, our age, our sexual orientation or functioning. Human dignity concerns all of us. A fundamental law of the right to life would underline the importance of human dignity to an even greater extent than it is today. Maybe that's just what we need in a society that's moving faster and faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1847	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1853	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1942	It is voted over in new section 1a. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1957	It is contested in Section 21 of the new third paragraph. Here the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against. The voting boards showed that there were 42 votes in favour and 27 votes against the Committee's position on Section 21 of the new third paragraph. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.50.01]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1968	It seems that we have to re-vote the vote. So here the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1982	It is votered over II new §8b. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e1996	It is quoted above Section II, Section 11, new sixth paragraph, and Section III. Here the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2010	It is added over IV. The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2025	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2039	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2159	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2169	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2179	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left In this and the following cases, we will vote for the Constitution. The president suggests that we vote in the usual way using the vortexing system. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:13 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2204	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:13 [[2007-2008]] The right has warned that they support the proposal subsidly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2226	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2243	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:4 [[right of residence]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2262	President! I voted too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2267	The representative, Mr Isaksen, was not represented by the wrong vote, but did not vote, so that there would be 134 votes in favour and 9 votes in favour. The President has reason to believe that we will henceforth do our utmost to vote correctly. Then the recommendation is that we take a new voting. The President expects this to be correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2284	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:5 [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2311	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:12 [[on freedom of expression and religion]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2338	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:17 [[on the right to asylum]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2365	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:18 [[on privacy and personal data]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2392	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:19 on the draft constitution of Odd Einar Dørum and Gunvald Ludvigsen on new § 100a of the Constitution [[2007-2008]] [[on equality of law and fundamental legal certainty guarantees]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2420	During the debate, Mr Bekkevold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:22 [[Protection of life]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2439	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2444	Then the vote again — all the experience suggests that it pays off.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-04.ana.ud2141e2502	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
