ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e61	The representatives Knut Storberget and Susanne Bratli, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. Four permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative, Morten Höglund, from 17 January to 20 January, as a member of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, to attend the Conference in Toronto of the Workers' Party's Group on the Care Allowance of the Representative, Dag Ole Tegen, from 17 January to 19 January from the Working Party's Group on the Sickness Allowance of the Representative, Eva Kristin Hansen, from 17 January onwards and until further notice from the Working Party's Group on Sickness Allowance of the Representative, Thomas Breen, from 17 January until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Knut Gravrök, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen, from 30 January to 1 February, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: That application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tone Liljeroth 17 January-19. January For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde 17 January and until further notice For Hordaland County: Roald Aga Haug 17 January-19. January For Sør-Trøndelag County: Knut Gravrök 17 January-19. January and February 7 and until further notice and Gunn Elin Flakne January 30-1. February
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e136	Tone Liljeroth, Roald Aga Haug and Knut Tombs are present and will take the seat. The representative, Nikolai Astrup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e141	On behalf of the representatives Siri A. Meling, Elisabeth Aspaker, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Erna Solberg and myself, I am delighted to propose the creation of coal-fired power stations with full-scale capture and storage of CO2 on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e149	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e165	This is a topic that is unlikely to become less topical over the years, which is one of the more demanding parts of our economy being so integrated with other countries. In total, small Norway has the most to serve on regulated cross-border economic relations, but a small and rich country like ours also faces some crime challenges. TV 2 has shown, through several reports, how foreign payment branches and agents in Norway handle money transfers and have been used for several years by criminals to make illegal profits out of the country. Unlike regular banks, large amounts can be sent out of the country in minutes, which can be taken out in the next minute almost anywhere in the world. Today, well over a hundred such agents operate in Norway, and they run payment agencies alongside regular operations, which can be anything from meat sales and hairdressing to travel agencies and bingo. A common laundering activity is to conceal the origin of dividends by sending money in reverse through different accounts, through accounts to third parties, strawsmen or companies. Normal mode is used, for example: sending the money through several instalments and more financial institutions before they end up with the original owner. Another procedure is to transfer smaller amounts to many recipients in order to break down the original amount before the money is returned to the original owner. In these modes, it becomes difficult to establish the relationship between the proceeds of criminal activity and the money. Transfers may take place through the use of services provided by ordinary banking systems, services provided by money transfer operators — mainly MoneyGram — or through the use of informal value transfer systems, known as hawala. The aim of the whole legislation on money laundering, adopted by the Stortinget, was to prevent just terror and other types of criminal activity. However, the effect of the activity that TV 2 has revealed results in much of the opposite. Today, control and supervision are placed on the supervisory authorities of the country in which the parent company has a concession, and are therefore not managed by Norwegian supervisory authorities. EU rules make it impossible for Norwegian supervisory authorities to exercise control because it is done by foreign supervisory authorities from their home Member States. The directive that regulates this is the so-called payment service directive which was dealt with in the Stortinget in February 2009 and amendments to the Financial Contracts Act, which entered into force in November 2011. The aim of the Directive is, of course, to harmonise the rules on payment services in EU and EEA countries so that cross-border payments can be simpler and more effective. Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen said to TV 2 that it will be working towards the EU to amend the Payments Directive, which was dealt with in the Stortinget in February 2009, but that the solution in the short term is to establish agreements with financial supervision in countries with parent companies. The Payments Directive is a so-called full harmonisation directive, which, of course, limits Norway's scope of action, unless we agree to change it. In NOW 2011:1 Better armed against financial crises, the scope of action within the EEA financial market obligations of Norway is summarised in Section 9.3, page 109: ‘Norway is thus substantially as bound by Union law as each EU country, at least in the financial market area.’ I am not going to go up the huge European Union and EEA debate here today, but I note that, by chance, there has been a rather violent debate on the basis of the evening post's headlines yesterday and the debate in Political Quarter today. The consequences of the Directive well illustrate some of the implications of our exclusion before, during and after the adoption of a Directive. As the Evening Post wrote yesterday, active European policy consists primarily in the gathering of information. I hope it is possible today to discuss this issue without going into the usual trenches, because the trenches have made it possible for us to have, for 18 years, a real public, wide debate on the EEA, which the Party Secretary pointed out before Christmas, but which hopefully we will have the opportunity to have on the European investigation in a short time. However, one question that can be asked is how well coordinated the Norwegian authorities are with regard to the type of questions that are the starting point for my interpellation. This type of issue is primarily dealt with as a financial and economic issue, without the significant involvement of justice and crime in the work, at least not here on the Stortinget. There is reason to ask how active and comprehensive the government’s European policy is in assessing, analysing and informing what the impact of an EU directive can be – not least when it is signaled that it will be changed, less than two years after it was adopted in the Grand Duchy – and to what extent the size has been made aware of it. Of course, in the light of the after-clock we can say a lot. This interpellation is not meant to be some kind of government bone hook, but is a sincere desire to bring this type of debate into the United Kingdom and get feedback in an area that is important in terms of combating crime and terrorism. The question today from me to the Council of State is: How well coordinated are the Norwegian authorities in their efforts to combat this type of crime? What is the government's strategy and proposals in the future to prevent profits from criminal acts from being sent out of the country as easily as possible? The Minister of Finance has announced a position, and I ask the Minister of Justice to clarify how far we have come, what feedback we have received from the European Union so far, and what we can expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e194	This interpellance also affects the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, as we have just heard. I have therefore obtained input from the Ministry of Finance. Much of organised crime is international and profit-based. Dividends from criminal acts in Norway are often returned to the rest of the world, both to ensure profits and to enable new investments in criminal activities. I am very concerned about a targeted effort against these flows of money and see this as particularly important in the fight against organised crime. Combating organised crime is a priority area for government, which is also reflected both in the Report. St. 7 for 2010–2011 The fight against organised crime – a joint effort and in the government's three-year action plan against economic crime. These key documents have a number of actions against organised crime. The main strategy of the government is to achieve a more holistic approach to organised crime, including: through enhanced interaction. This shall be done through the strengthening and further development of the coordinating body and cross-border cooperation, in particular between the police and the control bodies. The execution of criminal dividends takes place mainly in two ways: through trafficking in couriers and through transfer through payment enterprises. Effective control of money laundering requires action against both forms. From 2009 onwards, customs and charging authorities have intensified the fight against currency smuggling and achieved good results. Payment enterprises located in Norway are subject to the Money Laundering Act and the Currency Register Act. They are required to carry out so-called risk-based customer checks, in addition to having reporting obligations on the currency registers of customs and charging authorities and to ecocrim in the case of suspicious transactions. The reporting obligation to the foreign exchange register applies both to the purchase of currency and to the transfer of means of payment to the rest of the world. Aid for the transfer of criminal dividends is subject to the provisions of Section 317 of the Criminal Code. The profit of the transfer may be deducted. The activities may also be subject to criminal liability under the rules on corporate penalties laid down in the Criminal Code § 48a and 48b. The law on money laundering and the reporting obligation of the currency register constitute important contributions to prevent the execution of criminal proceeds. It is the payment undertakings that are responsible for ensuring that all those carrying out transfers of funds comply with these rules. The responsibility relates to the undertaking itself or its agents. In order to ensure compliance with legislation, it is important to implement effective enforcement, both through control/supervision and through penalties, as well as through the influence of industry actors in information. On the control side, it is the Financial Supervisory Authority that has the supervisory authority with regard to Norwegian payment undertakings and compliance with the money laundering law. Monitoring of compliance with the anti-money-laundering legislation is routinely carried out by means of regular local supervision. For 2011, between 20 and 30 such inspections were related to the whitewashing area. The financial supervision does not have the power to oversee the agent activities of foreign companies in Norway on a spot basis. Under the Payments Directive, supervision is entrusted to the supervisory authority of the home Member State. However, the Payments Directive requires the EU/EEA authorities to cooperate in this respect. Good mechanisms for the exchange of information between countries and commitments are central. In the event of a suspected breach of the law, the Financial Supervisory Authority must notify the authorities of its home Member State. This is done as a briefing to the concession and/or supervisory authorities. Alternatively, it may take the form of a request to the supervisory authority to assess the implementation of measures. The regulatory framework in this area presents challenges in relation to effective enforcement. The assumption of local supervision by the home Member State authorities raises resource questions for the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Minister of Finance replied on 16 December last year that the Ministry of Finance, together with the Financial Supervisory Authority, will assess how best to address the challenges. The Minister of Finance stressed that the issues of agent activity and non-compliance with the legislation on money laundering are known in the EU. The EU is working on the revision of the money laundering and payment company legislation. Norwegian authorities are part of the relevant forums in the EU. It is important to find a good balance and coordination in the relationship between the police and the Financial Supervisory Authority, both for activities where the Financial Supervisory Authority can exercise oversight and in the case of non-supervisory activities. It is also important that police and prosecution authorities actively participate in the challenges. The Ministry of Justice will have dialogue and cooperation with the Ministry of Finance in the work of the Minister of Finance in the reply to the Stortinget on 16 December last year. Financial supervision, Ecocrime and customs and charging authorities exchange information and cooperate in specific cases. The financial supervision has regular contact meetings with Ecokrim, where follow-up of foreign exchange activities, including: is theme. Financial supervision also cooperates with the customs system by sending copies of all new authorisations granted to payment undertakings. The customs and charging authorities may then follow up new actors and their reporting obligations to the foreign exchange register. Ecocrime performs different types of awareness-raising work aimed at those who are subject to reporting obligations. The website whitewashing.no is operated together with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Finnish Financial Industry’s Main Organisation and contains general professional information. The same three actors organise the annual Whitewashing Conference to develop competence in the field. The Ecocrime Financial Intelligence Unit has dialogue with and follow-up to international payment companies operating in Norway. The Ecocrim financial intelligence unit is designed to combat money laundering. It receives all suspicious transactions reports under the Money Laundering Act. Effective use of the reports requires that these be seen in the context of other intelligence information. To strengthen the fight against money laundering, 35 million were granted in 2006. kr for the development of the ASK electronic analysis system. It was completed in 2008 and has been very successful. The analyses and other information collected by the ASK are forwarded to both the police and the relevant control authority. Control authorities thus receive important information in order to target their activities. Information from the ASK is entered in the police national intelligence register, Indicia. Action 5 of the Action Plan against economic crime suggests that police districts should make more effective use of the intelligence information provided by the ASK and Indicia. Several criminal cases show that investigations based on ‘money tracks’ contribute to the detection of participants in organised networks, including backers. The government, like the Stortinget, wants such ‘money spore research’ to be further developed and to have its own place alongside more traditional research. The government wants good professional environments to be developed in the police districts with the necessary skills to carry out money tracking research. The Ecoteams were therefore strengthened by 10 new posts last year. I will follow developments in this area closely, so that the necessary measures can be put in place as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e240	I thank you for your answer. The right understands that the answer was not particularly offensive in relation to the question, as this is a very complicated question. But the question was whether there is at all a room for manoeuvre for the Norwegian authorities, as the Minister of Finance has announced. Then I want to come up with two concrete follow-up questions, which were the concrete questions that led to the interpellation. It's: The Minister of Finance announced that, in the short term, an attempt will be made to conclude agreements with each country’s financial supervision. Have such initiatives been taken, and are there any agreements on the steps with some specific countries' financial supervision? The second issue concerns the EU’s position. Yes, it has to be evaluated. The question is: has the EU given any indication to the government that it is realistic that the Payments Directive will be amended so that the Stortinget can be presented within a reasonable time? There are two questions that it is important for Stortingen to know something about. The Council of State may not be able to answer them specifically today, but there are key issues that the government should inform the Storting about as soon as possible. As for the rest of the post in relation to the fight against organized crime, I am very pleased that the Right played a very active role when we dealt with the paper on organised crime, and that the government was with the Right and the rest of the opposition about it. The challenge here, which is the theme of the interpellation, is that it tightens legs under part of the job and intention shared by the Stortinget and the government to combat serious forms of organised crime and terrorist activity. Therefore, it is incredibly important for Stortinget to know that we have a government that has an active European policy, which not only consists of gathering information, but also attempts to have real impact on EU forums that may help to adjust the Payments Directive. So I want to repeat the two specific questions: are there any agreements concluded, are there any agreements on the stairs? And has the EU in any way signaled to the government that one is willing to adjust the Payments Directive, in addition to saying that one should generally evaluate it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e255	As I explained in my reply, this is an area which is primarily followed up by the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, responsible for several of the relevant laws and initiatives in this area. The issue is important, I fully agree with the interpellant, and the more strangely I felt that some of the questions were linked to the Minister of Justice being asked if the Minister of Finance would follow up their initiatives as they were presented here in Stortinget just before the turn of the year. Of course, it is necessary to assume that the Minister of Finance is following up the initiatives he has announced. As I also stated, the EU has announced that it will review the Racism Directive, and Norway will also participate in all relevant forums in the review of these important issues. I do not conceal – I don’t think anyone is hiding – that this is an activity that poses major challenges, and the government has therefore explained a number of measures to combat organised crime both in the communication on organised crime and in the follow-up action plan. Enhanced cooperation is established between relevant authorities, competences are built on different levels and new resources are deployed to actively combat illegal activities. This is an area we will follow closely, and where we will of course also see whether there are possible ways to strengthen cooperation between the justice sector and the control bodies in other sectors as well. Here, there are cross-cutting and multidisciplinary competences that are being challenged, and we also need to be willing to take on new instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e264	Let me first of all thank the interpellant for addressing a very important matter and, of course, also be allowed to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer and for a thorough review of these issues, because here we are not just talking about what can be done in relation to the financial area; here we are also talking to the greater extent about what needs to be done in the field of justice to combat organised crime. I think a lot of us were surprised when TV 2 before Christmas could reveal how easy it was to establish itself as a payment company, and how this system, as the interpellant has explained, can be used for large-scale money laundering acquired through criminal activities. I think absolutely TV 2 should have a big thank you for being able to light this in a good way. This case therefore deals with money laundering of profits from drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings as well as contributions to terrorist financing abroad. The police have reported through TV 2 reports, among others. pointed out that the problem is that at the moment that the police strike against these criminal environments, they have already sent the proceeds from the criminal activity to their home country. When the police strike at addresses and seize, the police find that millions have been sent out of the country, so that the possibility of collecting the dividends has been lost. An EU directive allows almost anyone to carry out transfers of funds to and from the rest of the world. Since 2010, 115 agents have been registered in Norway as jobs for different payment companies. The use of money transfer systems has taken place – from 620 million. NOK 2006 to nearly SEK 2.2 billion. kr out of the country in 2010. The advantage of these systems is that it is very quick to send out money, and in minutes you can take the money out anywhere in the world. But this system is used for whitewashing. This is serious, and this is a problem to which solutions must be found, and as soon as possible. The challenge here is that this system can operate as it does under the idea of EU cooperation on free movement of, among others. capital. In many areas, this is probably a very good idea, but here we also see the back of this medal. These issues are apparently well-known in the EU, and, as the Minister of Justice has explained here today, this should be worked on as well. The question is whether this work is going fast enough. In writing to Stortinget on 16 December 2011, the Minister for Finance has previously issued an opinion.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The EU is currently reviewing the rules on money laundering and the rules on payment undertakings. The Norwegian authorities are part of the relevant EU forums, and the government supports, and will be a driver for addressing the issue of the supervision and control of agents in this audit work.’ The Progress Party supports this work, but at the same time we are concerned that what has been revealed cannot continue on a large scale pending a process in the EU. Such a process can, as everyone knows, take a long time. I am pleased that the government says that there are instruments that can be implemented at national level, among other things. the supervisory function can be strengthened and, pending any new EU rules, the Financial Supervisory Authority is working to improve supervisory cooperation with individual countries. The Payment Services Directive opens up the possibility for the home Member State authority to delegate to host Member States the local supervision of agents of non-resident payment enterprises. The Progress Party supports such work, which it has been outlined that the Financial Supervisory Authority is working on. I note that the government has also said that this is a resource issue. It is, but as the Progress Party sees the matter, we as the authorities cannot allow the system to continue without showing that it is being broken down. So I hope that the government will now clearly give priority to national actions, national instruments, pending the work being done in the EU. If Norway is at the forefront of the fight against this money laundering that is taking place through such systems, Norway may also have much to contribute to the ongoing work in the EU. The Progress Party expects – and records, according to the government’s own statement – that the government takes these issues very seriously. We are happy about this and hope that the government will be able to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with information on how the work will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e284	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important theme in the name of the fight against crime. This concerns, in addition to the theme itself, organised crime and money laundering, putting a spotlight on the government's internal coordination and efforts in the field. It is approaching one year since Stortinget dealt with Meldning. St. 7 for 2010–2011 on the fight against organised crime. The right is very pleased that almost all of the points in the big news gathered about some of the main strategies in the fight against organised crime. It is a form of crime that is increasing in scope. It's getting more advanced, and at the same time it's becoming both more profitable and violent. So here it's important that all good forces gather and use knowledge, wisdom and good organization to meet this challenge. One of the main strategies adopted by the Stortinget in the paper was just to combat, or attack, the flows of money from organised crime. If we do it in an efficient and good way, and perhaps even better way than today, we have removed much of the driving forces behind organized crime. In addition, it will also involve a significant element of prevention of another type of crime that is not necessarily well organised. So overall, this is an extremely important measure to combat crime across the board. This is why it is important that we in Norway have the tools in place, that we have the means in place, that we build up the good, sound skills of the professionals who work on the theme, and not least that we provide effective and targeted organisation by the authorities, so that the way is short from decision making and information to action. This is a very important topic that the Right will continue to follow, because, in our opinion, it is so very important in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e297	I would like to thank you for a debate that is not heated, so at least a good debate. It is necessary that the Storting in between also discuss things without it becoming the big fights. I think this is an area where there is little room for political games. Our intention to raise the question is to ensure that the government coordinates itself as closely as possible, informs Stortinget as best possible and follows up the intentions of an overall increase in the fight against organised crime, which Mr Anders B. Werp was concerned about. The debate is now also about the EEA Agreement. You've gone from all the power in this room to maybe a little overly disqualified in this room in terms of how we import legislation, because we don't have full membership. We have membership in bureaucracy, but not in democracy, because we are not a member of the European Union. We will have that debate later when we are going to discuss the EEA in its full scope. The Council of State must have misunderstood a little when I made the point of checking out what is being done to follow up the Minister of Finance's signals to enter into agreements with other countries' financial supervision. Yes, it is true that constitutional responsibility is allocated to various state councils, but we are extremely concerned on the Right that the current Council of State is equally committed to issues of justice, even if they are formally included in finance. We were relatively swept away with the former state council, which was extremely engaged – perhaps a little too engaged in a little too much. But one thing that the previous councillor, Storberget, is going to have the honor of, was that he was hanging on to questions that belonged under finance. I hope, on behalf of the Right, that the current Council of State has intended to be equally committed and follow closely, even if it is formally part of another Council of State, because it is the overall responsibility of the Government to ensure that it coordinates itself as best as possible and not least informs the Stortinget as best as possible, as I have said, since already, after three years, it appears that one wants to have the Payments Directive amended, after the Stortinget adopted it without a very large debate in February 2009. I want to wish the Council of State good luck with that job. The Councils of State will receive all possible support from the Right. I also hope that you can say relatively quickly how many agreements you might have with other countries' financial supervision, and what you intend to do in the short term in order to achieve exactly what the Minister of Finance has done, on behalf of the government – in order to remedy some of the consequences of the directive for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e310	It's an important question that has been raised here. I can only thank you for the congratulations and also underline, as Mr Werp did, that we have a good report on the situation of organised crime and that efforts have broad support in the Grand Duchy. I'm glad. Some have asked questions about the scope of this agency or the hawala business. I have been informed by the Ministry of Finance that by 20 December they have received 111 notices of agents in Norway, and that 67 applications of these relate to hawala activities. There's been 16 permits. In addition, there are 5 permits where the documentation is to be submitted. The rest of the applications have either been rejected — there are 30 pieces — or are being processed. I also mention this to give an idea of how closely these matters are followed up. Effective control systems are also important in order to get a good overview of this area in the future, as this is the starting point for effective action. Attempts have been made to estimate the amount of illegal transfers. This is difficult by its very nature, but the estimates from the customs services are still about. 2 to 3 billion kr in and out of Norway annually. In the past, we have been reviewing the actions taken, but it is clear that it is important to continue working together on intensive industrial controls where both police and financial regulators act together. It is also important to assess the strategy used by the customs service — and which has proved successful in the fight against currency smuggling — to see if it has any transfer value. Of course, we will also continue to work against identity abuse. This is a matter which the interpellant pointed to, which requires close cooperation with the Minister of Finance and the financial authorities, and I can assure you that it will also be important for me to ensure in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e321	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e337	Then we're going to give up a little bit. The theme of this interpellation is whether the government — still — will not use available tools to improve the clarification of, for example: rape crimes and how to ensure more convictions. Although we're probably going to hear that it's about how eager we in the Right are to privatize the criminal court area, it's not about it. This is about the extent to which we take rape victims seriously, it's about the quality of DNA analyses, and it's primarily about more legal certainty using the second opinion environment – not just talking about it. The government’s opposition to using other than RMI and FHI — the Forensic Institute and the Institute for Public Health — has been so-called ideologically based since 2005. But the same government uses private for much more intrusive tasks. Then it's not about ideology or principles, because ideological resistance requires a rather holistic approach to it – something that the government doesn't have. On this issue, it is difficult to see that it is about something other than willfulness — a compulsion to the detriment of the country’s victims of rape, the quality of the DNA analysis work and to the detriment of legal certainty. For a long time, the right has called for regular statistical reporting from RMI and FHI for success rates and time use. If it is now available — and it should do so, as, according to the former State Council of Storberget, this was on the stairs in 2009 — this documentation must be provided. Since Stortinget has decided to continue solutions with RMI/FHI as its sole supplier and not to be measured against others, the Stortinget must be given – as we have repeatedly called for – the opportunity to provide written documentation on time use, success rates and transparent costs of legal genetic services. With the exception of the annual report from the RMI for 2009, we have not seen that the Stortinget has been given access to such a published, and not least comprehensive, overview. In the autumn of 2009, I asked questions about this. The Minister of Justice then referred to 30 days’ proceedings. According to the annual report, which was first published late in the fall of 2010, it was close to 100 days — and increasing at that time. I am therefore asking the State Council today for a concrete response to when a routine is to be set up to produce proper and comprehensive annual reports to which the Stortinget can relate – which former RMI director Ballo tried to get started, but which clearly did not become routine anyway. As you know, after a short time, Ballo met with the analysis monopoly – which almost certainly does a good job – but the government obviously does not want anyone to evaluate this job in order to verify what is happening and not happening. As pointed out many times over five to six years: GENA in Stavanger can therefore receive samples, anonymised, with barcode marking. GENA delivers results in the same format as FHI. I have visited Metropolitan Police myself in the United Kingdom. They use different laboratories – all private – for different tasks within this type of service. GENA was started by an angry and impatient woman who had a genuine commitment to doing the job better, and the same thing happened in England from 1997. We were told there that the police get monthly surveys of the number of samples – and not least success rates – from each supplier, which the Right has been calling for for several years. Is there really too much to ask about what the police should have? Legal certainty and ‘second opinion’ are important for an overall accumulation. The non-use of independent and qualified ‘second opinion’ is described in Ragna Aarli’s 2011 book ‘DNA certificate’ as at the expense of those exposed to crime. This is because it is not possible to make use of the opportunities available for rapid and effective investigation and the possible resolution of crime. DNA can be the most effective investigation tool, but then the analyses have to be done quickly and – not least – deliver results. Norwegian police should be given increased responsibilities and powers with regard to the management of legal genetic analysis. It takes about five working days to analyse simple track samples in England and Sweden. In the London area, it is required that laboratories achieve more than 95 pst. success in obtaining profiles from simple tests. To date, low success rates and long analysis times have been explained to Stortinget with weakness in the police's own routines. Whether RMI/FHI could have done better analytical work is not challenged. This is not to be checked in more detail either, given the rigidity of the government's refusal to provide free second opinion DNA analyses in 20 media-reported assault cases that did not produce results in FHI. Understand who it is who wills! In June 2011, the Executive Director of the RMI, Thor Håkstad, informed the management of the University of Oslo that the Institute no longer has residues in DNA analyses, and that sounds good, but there is reason to ask how to define residues yourself. One is that this was not at the time declared for serious crime. The more important thing is the actual residual concept, which some people get access to define themselves. Residues are dynamic and subject to supply and demand. The residues of forensic laboratories are not static: the number is constantly changing as laboratories increase their own capacity by streamlining, such as employing more or implementing additional equipment, since legal changes are introduced in connection with the DNA testing of criminals, or, of course, because the laboratories receive increasing amounts of evidence or lose experienced DNA analysts. The question is how long FHI will be so-called leftover and will be allowed to define even what it means to be leftover. When we discussed the question of ‘second opinion’ during the justice debate last year, the Council of State stated that ‘this new discussion of a second time control’ seemed ‘a little sought-after’. She further stated: ‘It acts almost as an instrument to ensure that private suppliers fit in to do something that others consider to be professionally unnecessary. There will be a waste of public money in my world." First of all, this isn't a new discussion. It's been going on for five to six years. Secondly, as mentioned above, GENA offers free analyses. For tests that have not given results at RMI/FHI, and where GENA has experience that they actually find DNA where RMI/FHI has tested negative, it must be said that the police have everything to gain from giving the tests a chance to do so. Otherwise they'll be thrown anyway. Public waste has to be spent hundreds of millions on a DNA reform without knowing if the services have come up to the level that we should expect and that is allowed, not least of the technology. Thirdly, we have still not established a second opinion environment. It was to be established in Tromsø, but it has not yet happened, and the government has not given money to it in the budget. So you choose to spend a lot of money without facilitating a second opinion environment as quickly as possible. The only new thing is that we have a Council of States which in December was like the second opinion debate was new. It's been premised all along, regardless of the question of GENA. The fact that the Association of Lawyers as well as the police lawyers during open consultation with the Judicial Committee provide clear support for the use of GENA to ensure better legal certainty, speed and better analysis should make a certain impression. I am well aware that neither the Bar Association nor the police lawyers are particularly sensitive to the issue of legal certainty or the public/private relationship in the criminal justice area. Unlike the state council, I don't want to describe them as someone who makes unnecessary professional recordings on behalf of, for example. the country's rape victims, as the Council of State chose to do on 2 December. Does the Council of State continue to believe that the Association of Lawyers and Lawyers are wrong when they want a second opinion environment now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e368	The government and a majority in the Grand Duchy are of the opinion that legal certainty and quality are best ensured by the type of analysis we are talking about here, carried out under public control and independent of business interests. Treatment and analysis of DNA traces in criminal matters is the handling of evidence and a link in a chain of evidence assurance and shall include, inter alia,: comply with strict legal certainty requirements. I do not know what the interpellant aims at this government ‘using private actors for much more extensive evidence’. The use of private actors to carry out investigations and analysis in the criminal justice area is not unknown in Norwegian police work, but so far such services have been purchased primarily in cases where public authorities do not have the necessary professional competence. Initially, I want to make it clear that I do not doubt the Right Motives for their involvement in the purchase of private analysis services. My predecessor has been asked more than once from Stortinget's pulpit to decide on the purchase of the services in question from a specific private company, even asking to assess the state acquisition of the same. I will immediately make it clear that I will not go into such a discussion related to a particular private company. It would require its own processes in line with existing legislation and responsibilities relating to public acquisitions and state ownership. In principle, both forensic, legal and forensic analyses can be obtained from purchases in the private market. Instead of a system of official and private laboratories working to assist on a commercial basis, Norway has chosen to pool expertise in institutions, and then in the Public Health Institute and the Kripos, subject to public governance and control. This is also consistent with what has been chosen in our Nordic neighbouring countries, and has been a viable model under changing governments and policies. For passenger samples, the capacity of the FHI is more than enough in relation to the mission quantity. The major capacity challenges associated with the treatment of trace samples at the beginning of the DNA reform have been addressed through targeted residue reduction and reduction of treatment time. About 80 pst. the track files are processed within 30 days and are within the target set. Very serious issues such as rape and other issues that the police prioritize are dealt with in a separate process with their own deadlines. Those who have experience in dealing with such issues know well that time use does not relate to the DNA analysis of a trace sample itself. It is carried out in a few days. The manual work of describing and examining the material, e.g. the most time-consuming studies include clothing and the presence of biological material in seizures. A single case may contain from one to up to several hundred trace samples in addition to samples from implicated persons in a reported condition. In such cases, the police, in cooperation with the FHI, must prioritize the submitted survey material. Trace material and reference samples from implicated persons are often received in several rounds and at different times. In addition, the implication of the case may change the explanation in the course of the investigation. All of this often leads to new assessments and new analyses or additional analyses. This requires consistent processes and competent personnel required. Quality as well as processing time in these cases depends on the proper functioning of all stages of the evidence assurance chain and the establishment of good practices between the contracting entity and the analyst. The task of the expert shall always end with a written report for use in court. The case must have been examined and brought to the light in the best possible way. All details must be correct so that the so-called ‘chain of customody’ is kept. The legal certainty of the implicated is essential. If there is something that investigations in this area have been concerned about, and the representative of the Høybräten pointed to in his interpellation in the autumn of 2010, there is a need for a rational and coherent organisation of these services. Expertise in criminal matters has common challenges and a holistic approach is needed. There must be a bottom-solid public and comprehensive offer on the ground, as has been foreseen in both Denmark, Sweden and other countries to expand. When the government launched the DNA reform on 1 September 2008, it was a reform that covered measures across a wide range of areas. Central funding for DNA analyses, so that it is no longer the police district economy that determines whether biological traces should be investigated, was introduced at the same time as a new law on extended DNA registration. Increased laboratory capacity has been necessary, but so important are measures for building police competence and more efficient collection and better security of DNA traces during the investigation. The analytical result is no more reliable than its weakest joint. As a result, the police’s collection and handling of their criminal technical tracks are of great importance for legal certainty. The biological trace section of the FHI has carried out DNA analyses in a significant number of criminal cases over a long period of time. The FHI indicates that the work of the department involving track surveys is accredited to the standard ISO 17025. The studies use the same recognised and established methods as in other equivalent laboratories. FHI also participates in so-called ring tests, which show that the quality of the work is high and according to the requirements of the international standard. I am aware that it has been claimed that several of the attacks could be solved using more sensitive analytical methods. After I have been informed, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether the results of such analyses and the biological material on which the analysis is based can be linked to the criminal act. The court may raise justified doubts as to the validity of the certificate, with subsequent ‘expert’ disputes. If such analyses are marketed to the police despite the fact that they are obsessed with great uncertainty as to the outcome, I think this is very worrying. Track analysis is a specialised area. The necessary skills are acquired over time by working with concrete material in many different cases. In my opinion, both the Institute of Public Health and Kripos have a great deal of respect for the work done, both in general and in the courts, which receive these expert advice. They also enjoy great respect among defenders and in Norwegian police and prosecution authorities. The interpellant asks why I think the law firm and the police lawyers are wrong when they “probably claim that today’s model is to be damaged, for example. in the case of persons subject to rape’. I cannot see that there is a factual basis for the interpellant or others to claim that today's model, which is a public responsibility for evidence assurance, is demonstrable to the detriment of victims of rape. We all agree on the importance of providing faster and more professionally reliable results that can be used as evidence in the event of assaults and in other cases. This considers that the majority of the Storting is best placed in the hands of the public and within a secure framework, regardless of private business interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e394	You almost get the mole in your forehead by hearing this argument. When it is not known what it is intended to do, when it is pointed out that public use of private companies is much more extensive, the Council of State could not have followed in the debate before Christmas and in previous debates. So to the argument that you don't want to use others where the public has sufficient professional competence. Then it should worry the Council of State that for years RMI, which was not accredited, was used that did not get an accreditation, while the partially privately owned GENA had it. The head of GENA is used as an expert in Norwegian legal proceedings for reasons of professional competence. I have a great deal of understanding that you don't want to discuss a concrete company. But now it is that this partly private-owned company is the only environment in Norway – next to the RMI, which has been finally accredited – that has sufficient competence and that has offered free trials to help the country's victims to find out if there was anything more to find. That is why they are used as an expert in Norwegian legal proceedings. Then came the argument that it's never better than the weakest term. It's very strange that in Norway you don't want to figure out what's the weakest term. It's automatically said that the police's DNA acquisition is the weakest term, because you don't want to see if the quality of RMI/FHI's work is so good. If it's that good, there's nothing to fear. Then you should allow other qualified people to see if there is anything to find. The most paradoxical thing is that GENA has actually received a price from the Ministry of Economic Affairs because it is fantastic with female foundations – and then the Ministry of Justice will not buy the services for which they and the company have received the price. RMI/FHI enjoys great respect. Then the state council should take a trip outside the country's borders and talk to some of the leading American experts on DNA analysis and hear if everything's doing so well. Of course, there is a lot of good work done – and our point is not to swear the RMI/FHI either – but we note that the Law Association, police investigators, lawyers and people who are victims of rape are constantly saying that this is slow. The question then is: When does the Council of State intend to present a concrete, comprehensive annual report to which the Stortinget can relate, which can at least demonstrate that the figures presented are correct, and that it is possible for the Stortinget and others to verify with regard to the amazing quality that you have – to the detriment of the country's victims of rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e412	I think this debate has helped so far to clarify that we agree on the importance of having a good system for these important analyses. I also believe that we have a good model for this, and that this has been developed over recent years in a good way, not least in the wake of the DNA reform. In my opinion, disagreements about priorities have also been identified in relation to how important it is to help involve more actors – so to speak, in any case. We also have cooperation with foreign analytical environments. As a result, in the context of some tests, we have actually seen it right to draw on knowledge environments outside our own environments. These possess extensive special skills. The Directorate of Police receives ongoing reports from the FHI on the time-use of analyses, and I assume that the Directorate reports to the Department if there is a trend in time-use that is negative or that samples are not delivered to the police districts within the time-limits set. If it is necessary to introduce new deadlines around these conditions, of course I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e421	I will boast of the interpellant for once again having contributed to putting this issue on the agenda. In the interpellation, it says that ‘Rights and others’ have addressed this matter several times, and I expect to represent ‘with more’. It is true that the representatives of the Progress Party have raised this matter a considerable number of times, like the inter-pellant and his party – both through inter-pellations, written questions, oral questions, comments and not least through proposals in a number of positions dealt with by the Justice Committee in recent periods. Nevertheless, we are unable to get movement in this matter. There's one thing I've noticed in the posts that the state council has kept Faremo so far today, and it's: best run in public, regardless of private business interests. It is not quite different from what former State Council Storberget has also said about this pulpit. But it shows that this case has become an ideological mantra for this government. It is ideology – the resistance to private solutions, private actors – which is crucial in this matter, and not that we should have a diversity, the possibility of second opinion, professional environments that test each other and compete with each other in order to achieve the best possible result for what we all want – to clarify as many of these matters as possible as quickly as possible. That is why this kind of ideology has to be sidelined, because it does not help to produce results for those affected by this, and when so many actors in these professional environments, in the police, among lawyers, etc. have clearly said that they want more opportunities to take these analyses. While allowing other actors than a public operator, quality requirements are, of course, required. After all, you should not – as it seemed to the state councils here suggested – accept just anything. If the State is to enter into an agreement with a privately operated institute for analysis, it is clear that clear quality requirements, measurable requirements, are to be set in such a process for that type of activity. This private operator mentioned here is willing to enter into that type of agreement. In this way, the new Justice Minister, Faremo, should be alarmed by all the stories that have just been revealed about the operation of the former Forensic Institute, and they lack quality and poor operation that have been revealed several times in recent years around that business. To what extent can we be sure that what is produced in that business has the quality requirements that we demand? I think that's good reason to ask questions about that. There have also been concerns about the cleanliness of the operation of the Forensic Institute in relation to the monopoly situation and competition with other activities in a competitive market, such as: in the case of private hazard analysis. Here there has been a lack of cleanliness, and I assume that the government has raised these points with the Department of Forensics and the Institute of Public Health, so that these have now been minimized.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e434	This is a topic that has been debated several times over the last few years by the Right and the Advance Party. Let me just make it clear first that from the Right, this is in no way about discrediting the existing public trade unions or promoting a private alternative. That's what the issue is at least about. For us, this is about legal certainty and effective investigation, nothing else. But also this time we meet with ideological arguments and not what I want to call professional arguments. I even record – and I look at the list of speakers at this moment – that there is not one representative from the government parties in this Chamber who has asked for the floor in the debate. I don't know what it's all about. You may have run out of arguments, I don't know, or maybe you feel that the matter is debated. But we're recording that it doesn't involve the government parties at all on the Stortinget. For us in the Right and others who have had the word in favor of building up alternatives, therefore, there are important fundamental questions about this matter. I am surprised that the Council of State in its statement does not affect the final report prepared by the University of Bergen dated 15 June 2011. It's a research done on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, and it's interesting to note the report's conclusion, which is about DNA analysis. It concludes on two main points that there is a lack of variability in the existing public analysis institutions. Secondly, the report points out that the absence of the so-called second opinion option is a legal certainty issue. But it is not at all possible to touch on such a very technical point in the debate. When, in addition, we in the Justice Committee meet representatives from both the Association of Lawyers and the police lawyers who point out exactly the same from their different points of view in the courtroom, it should begin to engage a debate in addition to going into an ideological trench and claiming that the public has all the answers to all the questions in all the cases. The right-hand side doesn't think that's the way it is. We need to raise our eyes and open up to more and more perspectives in the debate, so that we can do both better investigations and better legal certainty. Of course, the right is going to follow up on this further, and I hope that the absence of involvement in the debate from the red-greens is not a signal that they don't care about the theme as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e443	Fortunately, it's less than two years until 2013. When the lists are to be written about sensible things to do during the first hundred days, I have a creeping positive suspicion that a new government is going to put much more emphasis on strengthening Norwegian professional environments – listening to the Lawyers' Association, listening to the police lawyers, listening to the country's victims of rape – to ensure better legal certainty rather than to exercise principles later on as if you have but that you don't have because you use private environments in other areas. It was good that the Council of State mentioned the foreign analysis environment, because there has been no problem sending to private enterprises abroad from, for example: UDI page earlier. The core question here is why the Council of State will not use second opinion when FHI does not get clear answers to track tests. It's impossible to understand, especially since GENA – which you don't want to discuss – has offered to do it for free. GENA has offered to be taken over by the public, so that it may be in full public ownership, if it was ownership that was the problem. In general, it is that for several years, GENA was better qualified by being accredited, as opposed to what RMI did not do for many years. Then the question is, what qualities are they asking for? It's a circular argument that's hard to understand. But, as mentioned, it's a short time until 2013, and I think we'll be happy for that. In the meantime, we might put our trust in former representative Ballo, who resigned from SV, and who resigned his position as Director of the RMI because he met the analysis monopoly and lack of political interest, and has now joined the Workers' Party – that the Council of State listens to him and has a much more active position on what to expect from requirements for efficiency and not least results in terms of DNA analysis, rather than simply speaking as we have heard several times before, but which unfortunately is detrimental to professional environments and legal certainty in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e452	I understand that the debate on this issue has been held many times, but I still want to take the opportunity to thank the inter-pellant for giving the opportunity for another debate. I would like to stress that after what I have heard, there is still no one – and I am glad – who draws in doubt the quality of the sampling by FHI in such a way that there is reason to ask questions. For all that we have seen so far, there is no reason to ask questions about the quality by the way the samples are analysed by FHI, and they also use this ISO-approved model. But the samples are complicated and extensive, and we have therefore also been involved in the time use associated with this, where only the analysis of the samples itself can be what takes the least time, but where it is also important to ensure that the samples associated with the most serious crime are taken quickly. It has been suggested that the solution chosen is dogmatic. To that end, I would just like to point out that it is difficult to see it when one sees that the same model has been used in several of our European neighbours, not least our closest – Sweden and Denmark – and that this is a model that has worked for a long time and through changing political constellations. It is also interesting that when talking about using private operators, it seems to think that this could in that case be a tendering procedure aimed only at Norwegian operators. If you were to look at the possibility of this, this would have to be a wide-ranging tender in Europe. Then you might have a completely different solution, where there were bigger problems in ensuring a quality lasting over time, than what you can achieve with the good, established solution we have, and which I assume will work well in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e463	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e479	National guidelines to strengthen information security 2007–2010 were developed in 2007. These would apply until 2010. Four departments supported these guidelines. It was the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. As indicated by the year, the guidelines are now overtime. I assume that a work has been started to review the guidelines. We all know how dependent today's societies are on computer technology and digital infrastructure. Technology is the prerequisite for many good services and the availability of very important information. But these are technologies and networks that also have many weaknesses and that are potentially highly vulnerable to criminal exploitation and attacks that completely or partially eliminate the system. Cybercrime has grown strongly in recent years, and there are several international criminal organisations that are very active. We're talking about enormous values in this context. There are no exact figures describing the scope, but estimates indicate that we are talking about annual business losses in a global context as a result of cybercrime of about 1 000 billion. kr – and it increases. NorCERT, Norway’s National Centre for the Management of Serious Data Attack, reports an annual growth rate of 33 pst. in the number of things they handle. We can read almost daily about data attacks and data breaches. The defense marked it a short time after Norwegian fighter aircraft started their mission in Libya last year, when several hundred employees of the Defense received an e-mail with a well camouflaged computer virus. In March 2009, parts of the police computer system were decommissioned by a computer virus. In 2007, large parts of Estonia’s computer networks were abandoned as a result of computer attacks. The same happened in Georgia two years later – in 2009. A fire in a cable trench at Oslo Central Station in 2007 resulted in a 20-hour stop in all Eastern train traffic and a loss of telecommunications and data traffic for a large number of customers for 10 hours. The examples are many – this is just a little trick – but they show that this can happen everywhere. The motives for data attacks may be different, but the consequences are great if the attacks succeed and the infrastructure goes down. Today’s presentation of the threat situation of the Chief of the Police Security Service revealed that there is an increasing activity from other countries’ intelligence services and private companies targeting Norway. Internet-based intelligence is increasingly used, and increasingly sensitive information is available online. In addition, extreme weather is a threat to the critical infrastructure that connects the computer systems. That's what we saw last summer, especially with the storm Dagmar, which knocked out parts of the Norwegian telecommunications network. On top of this, we know that not all incidents of data breach and data attack are reported. First of all, this is because the company or organisation never discovers that someone has been inside their systems. Secondly, many people fail to report the event of fear of loss of reputation. Then I go back to National Guidelines to strengthen information security 2007–2010, which was developed, as mentioned, by four different ministries. The guidelines are based on the 2003 National Information Security Strategy developed by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Justice and Police under the Bondevik II Government. The national strategy allocates responsibility for the follow-up of strategies throughout the 11 departments. So the status is like this, as far as I have at least been able to figure out: we have a national strategy for information security from 2003 – almost nine years old. We have national guidelines to strengthen information security that was on date more than one year ago. The responsibility for the work on information security lies with the authorities in the eleven departments. These documents were certainly excellent guidance documents in their time, and many employees have followed up with good efforts afterwards. However, the right will ask a critical question as to whether this is sufficiently up-to-date to meet the new challenges that have come almost continuously since 2003 and 2007. Not least, we want to ask whether the government is well coordinated enough to meet and implement adopted plans and to meet today's and not least tomorrow's cybercrime and cyberattacks effectively. To the right, some issues are central to policy-making in this area in the context of a national strategy for better information security. Firstly, we believe that good coordination and clear allocation of responsibility and authority in this work are essential. It is easy to say that everyone has a responsibility for the information security of their business. It's a matter of course. But it may seem that coordination responsibilities between departments and agencies are not just as obvious to place. This is where the government needs to be made clearer. A strategy should place the coordination responsibility and the associated authority clearly and within one body. I would like to make it clear that this allows for the establishment of professional environments in several different parts of public administration, both in the civil and military sectors, but there should be no doubt about where the overall responsibility lies for the use of resources and competences in the most targeted and efficient way possible. A strategy must also describe cooperation between the private and public sectors. In the Norwegian business community, there are several top international competence environments. A strategy for increased information security should address how to organise an interaction based on common interests, including the establishment of mutual and committed cooperation. In this context, access to competences and research is also important. An information security strategy must describe the desired level of endurance and robustness of societally critical computer systems based on known cybercrime and cyber-attack threats. The level of endurance and robustness must be described for the maintenance of service provision, the maintenance of the functionality of the physical engine fleet and not least the maintenance of the communication capability of the digital infrastructure. Furthermore, a strategy must be offensive in terms of participating in broad international cooperation. Targeted data criminals and hackers operate completely without barriers to geographic borders. There is a lot of work that is important and useful, especially in NATO, but also in the EU. I also wonder that Norway does not participate as a partner in the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence. It was created in 2008. It would have been interesting to hear the Council's comment on this in particular, given that she has previously been Minister of Defence. A review and assessment of the legislation is also necessary in the development of a strategy, to see whether this has been adapted to the relevant challenges and threats to information security. In recent years, there has been an additional dimension to this. In international law, there is a debate and an increasing strength in the argument that indirect co-responsibility can be made at national level if adequate measures have not been taken to prevent cyberattacks, for example: a hacker group in one country compromises a Norwegian server and remotely controls it to carry out a cyberattack against a third country. As a result, Norway may be indirectly responsible for the event. Not all conclusions have been drawn in this discussion, but the discussion updates the importance of the legal instruments in our country to strengthen information security. In the light of these points, I ask the Council of State: What is the Government’s strategy to step up efforts in prevention, detection and incident management, in information sharing, intelligence and incident investigation in this area? How will the government ensure critical, digital infrastructure against current and future threats?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e526	The interpellant addresses a very important and topical issue. On 17 December 2010, the Ministry of Justice presented the notification of organised crime. The challenges associated with cybercrime and cyberattacks are also described there. As indicated in the Communication, cybercrime and attacks are considered to be a type of organised crime that is increasing, both against individuals, businesses, organisations and countries. NorCERT – Norwegian Computer Emergency Response Team – is Norway’s national centre in the field and coordinates the management of serious data attacks against societal critical infrastructure and information. In addition, NorCERT operates and organises a national sensor network on the Internet – VDI – warning system for digital infrastructure. NorCERT is a branch of the National Safety Authority (NSH) to prevent serious attacks on societal critical infrastructure, to warn of serious incidents, threats and vulnerabilities. NorCERT acts as Norway’s contact point with similar organisations abroad and up towards sectoral response settings. They also cooperate with the authorities of other countries and with Norwegian state and private enterprises with critical infrastructure. In order to obtain an overall assessment and description of the ICT threat scene, a dedicated ICT risk assessment coordination group consisting of NSM, PST and the Intelligence Service has been established. NSM recommends that the different sectors establish their own response environments with contact surfaces against NorCERT – fixed contact points and alert procedures in their own sector. This could help to quickly understand whether an ICT attack is targeted at a single enterprise or at a sector as a whole. At the same time, it will also be possible to quickly get an overview of events affecting several sectors or countries. Work is under way to establish a response environment for the justice sector — JusticeCSIRT. This will strengthen ICT security and cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and underlying agencies when events affect our own systems. The cooperation and sharing of information related to ICT events between several entities will make a good contribution to the correct and faster response to adverse events. Several sectoral response settings linked to the national NorCERT will provide an early overview of the extent of the attack. I have called for this on several occasions. Security and trust in ICT systems is an essential prerequisite for keeping the wheels of society going. The government has issued national guidelines to strengthen information security, as the interpellant pointed out. These are now being revised. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and the Ministry of the Church are responsible for the coordination of preventive ICT security. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport are co-issuers of these guidelines. The revised guidelines will be available in spring and will cover the entire spectrum from basic ICT security to the protection of the most societally critical information systems, clarifying the division of responsibilities between departments in the field of ICT. The Communication on organised crime referred to the national safety authority’s proposal for a national cybersecurity strategy. This strategy, together with the consultations, will form an important part of the basic material for the formulation of the guidelines. The government has also launched several other measures: this year, Kripos will be reinforced by 15.28 million. to better prevent and combat Internet-related crime. The Kripos Data Crime Department has a central responsibility for preventing, detecting, investigating and correcting crime on the Internet. The department carries out computer-space research and methodological development in computer-based investigations, tracing and securing of evidence. The police also depend on getting tips from the audience. As part of this, the police have established pages on the web where children and young people travel, with a tip service called ‘Red Button’. I am concerned about the police presence on the Internet, both in the prevention work and as part of the investigation. The Directorate of Police and the National Advocate has set up a working group to investigate ICT crime intelligence and investigation. The working group shall identify both the current situation, the development of an electronic police force and the use of electronic tracks in the police. It will present its report in June. The size of the report will be properly briefed. The police security service also plays an important role in police action against network attacks and network operations against Norway and Norwegian interests. The PST has therefore been strengthened in the year's budget, including: Twenty million. kr to further develop the established Open Source device — a device that allows PST to make deep dives and analyse information from open sources on the network. The PST has also launched a project to address its own responsibilities and role in network attacks and operations. The result of this work will also be available in the spring. As the Stortinget has been notified in the past, work has been started to review police tasks and organisation, the Results Reform – the further development of the policing and county council. A central area referred to in police duties will be cybercrime. We will review the legislation, the organisation of prevention, intelligence and investigation, competences and skills needs, and the role of clarification and cooperation with other actors. The police's own ICT infrastructure needs to be upgraded. That's why it's set at 80 million. beyond what is set aside in the ordinary budget of the year, for the further development of police ICT measures. Today, we do not have a sufficiently safe, widespread and user-friendly solution to identify people online. In particular, this is a challenge for private services created by the user himself, without the identity being verified. The government has worked for some time on a national ID card, with government issued eID at a high level of security equivalent to the level of passports. The size will be kept informed about the further work in an appropriate manner. On 11 November last, the Prime Minister announced that the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Police for the security and preparedness of society in peacetime should be strengthened and clarified. The role of the Ministry for the Follow-up of Public Enterprises will be strengthened. From 1 January of this year, the Ministry of Justice and Defence shall bear the name of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. I have set up a separate project team that will deliver a report to me by the end of the month with an assessment of the department's preparedness tasks and their organisation. This could also affect responsibilities and tasks in the cyber field. When the clarification of these issues is available, the Storting will also be better informed in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e564	I thank the Council of State for the response to the interpellation and do not doubt that the Council of State and the Right share the same views and assessments of the threat picture. At the same time, I think the situation is quite significant, because when we were going to decide which Council of State to respond to this interview, we wondered if it was the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Justice. Already there we are at the heart of what may be the main challenge for this issue: Who owns the crisis if the crisis arises? And of course, I'm thinking about a general level. What department is responsible for serious crime and serious attacks on our digital infrastructure and our digital systems? I hope the Council of State can give an answer to that, at least that she can give an indication of the process on which the government has started – hopefully it has started – to clarify this. The Council of State comes in response with a good status description, but to a lesser extent, I have to say, it touches on the strategic and political elements of the matter. I hope that it is possible to get an answer from the Council of State on whether you, for example. considers promoting a key message on this topic. Report. St. 7 for 2010–2011 on the fight against organised crime, it is quite right, as the Council of State says, has devoted a good place to the challenges in the digital field, but as I try to shed light on this interpellation, there are some strategic and political elements that also need to be put in place. The most important thing is probably a greater degree of coordination and responsibilities and that responsibility is placed in the administration where it is well managed and where it is accompanied by the necessary authority. So my follow-up questions to the Council of State are: Who owns the crisis if Norway were to be subjected to a serious data attack? And, the Council of States sees separately the possibility of raising this issue to a political discussion through, for example. a deposit message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e575	Again, thank you to the interpellant for drawing out the essence of the challenges we face in this area. I think it is too early to conclude on the question of a message, but when I, among other things, have been given the responsibility to raise awareness, to focus more strongly on preparedness, I see that not least ICT and what we are also discussing in this context, cybercrime and attacks, present special challenges. We have a crisis management emergency principle in Norway, which is based on responsibility, equality and proximity; we also own the crisis even if we hold responsibility for a sector in our daily lives. Cyber challenges us both in terms of the interaction between the military and civil sectors, and also between the various levels. National guidelines are now being revised. It is the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church that is responsible for coordination, but it must coordinate with several departments. This will further clarify roles, responsibilities and coordination between the agencies. This must be crystal clear in case something happens. This is an area of increased attention, not only in Norway but also internationally. This is an area that requires close and good international cooperation. That's why, as Minister of Defence, I was also involved in developing a cyber strategy in NATO. It will be important to have good cooperation solutions, but that there is still a clear responsibility between civil and military authorities, and that civil authorities are well equipped to deal with any challenges that may arise in this area. It's clear to me that we have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e586	Still technological innovation offers many opportunities, but it also creates great challenges, not least in the field of justice and preparedness. It's good that we discuss this in Stortinget, and it won't be guaranteed the last time we do it. Everyone understands the importance of knowledge, effort and preparedness at home and across borders to deal with these digital threats. Here all the good forces must go together, so pay attention to both the interpellant, who takes up this, and to the Council of State for a good answer. The government has both offensive strategies and more than that, many good measures. Cyber and online crime is particularly important to combat because it affects so widely, is about so much and can have very serious consequences. This type of crime poses a threat to us as individuals, to small and large enterprises, organisations, infrastructure, the state administration and the nation. At a time when the PC, mobile phone and tablet are both work tools and an integral part of our leisure time, we are all potential victims. I want to take this opportunity to focus in particular on the digital threats to us as individuals. It is also, to a large extent, an important part of the strategy for combating this crime. Just because we are so vulnerable as individuals and as a society, it is important that we are aware of the dangers and precautions we need to take – at work and in private. We have to be on guard and realize that the risk is actually there, that there are people who really want to create real trouble for us, run for money, monitor us or steal sensitive information, even put out games, damage or control machines, tools, basic social functions, etc. The computer systems that protect us against viruses are able to protect us from much, but not from everything. First of all, we need to protect ourselves seas through knowledge and consciousness, for example. by something as simple as using different passwords for different services and not letting the dopings remember the passwords, and we need to be critical of which emails seem suspicious. Just before Christmas, I received a thorough demonstration and review at the Norwegian Information Protection Centre, NorSIS, of how we can easily be attacked by those who can do this – many have also obtained commercial programs that are on the market. Some people also pretend to be us – you or me, businesses or Norwegian officials – in order to hurt us. I was startled by what I got presented at NorSIS, but it's good we have knowledge of what's actually happening out there, and what we can do to limit this crime. My impression is that we really can't be too careful. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice in his statement stated and assured that the full scope of data crime is an area where the Ministry of Justice and Defence is very closely following. I also very much agree when she stresses the importance of prevention, and that good systems and practices in the police and other agencies are absolutely crucial. I'm very concerned that we're making sure that we give good help to those who are going to be victims of this type of crime. Here I believe that we can do more. When a private individual is attacked by an unknown and faceless perpetrator, the sense of abstinence can be great. Nor do many have the technological competence to fully understand how and why you are hit, and what really happens or can happen. An invasion of one's own home is bad enough, but in a way it's more concrete. An invasion of a computer, or someone taking over your identity, is hard to understand the consequences of. But the consequences can be very great – it can be a crisis for the individual. An alarming number of people are exposed to ID thefts. This has long-standing and drastic consequences and can shape the life of the victim for years. With more technology and increasingly inventive offenders, the need for follow-up of victims of cybercrime could continue and increase. A survey shows that about 80,000 Nordics have been exposed to ID theft in the last two years, but there is much evidence that prevention is producing results and that it is beneficial. Here, as usual, prevention is the most effective, cheapest and best preparedness, and it must have a high priority. We will meet the digital threats with targeted, effective and as coordinated efforts as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e605	The new crime, cybercrime – cross-border organised crime – is not just happening on land, it is happening so much via ICT and new media. Cybercrime is one of the greatest challenges society will face in the future. The interpellant pointed out in his intervention to events which then absolutely make the severity of these attacks apparent. The National Safety Authority’s strategy for cybersecurity states that the police are familiar with the challenge, but at present we do not have the tool in place to meet these challenges. EOS services believe that the level of threats associated with ICT-based instruments has increased considerably in recent years. Experience from NorCERT under NSM, our national safety authority, shows that this is more and more serious and more difficult to deal with. Intruders have multiple intentions. They may be out to obtain information, empty your bank account or it's an ID theft, or they may want computer power to use the individual's PC to attack others, so-called the bottom, with several computers that are then run together. That's when you're remotely controlled by a malicious broadcaster. The PC-Armada is used to attack another user and can quickly eliminate large, important companies. So the outsider can break in today and control e.g. oil production from a platform in the North Sea or the power generation from a waterworks. Our society has become incredibly vulnerable. Simple IT problems can cause major accidents, and it is possible for criminals to do great damage. Every day of the year, our businesses and public bodies are subjected to hacking and information gathering and, in some cases, attempted manipulation or attack. Several sectors of Norwegian society are attractive intelligence targets, and the activity of foreign intelligence services is high against Norway and Norwegian interests. If you dive into the cybercrime world, you'll soon see serious events, like this. Stux Net and others, who shape the debate. We also see serious ICT incidents being recorded in most international security conflicts, all of which pose a threat to society. Our allies are looking at the threats online with increasing concern. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly has produced cyberattacks, along with terrorism and the proliferation of nuclear weapons, which are one of the most serious threats facing the alliance and the Member States. Based on experience, there is reason to highlight intelligence and organised crime as the most important threats in Norway today, says NorcERT, which thus confirms the call of the Progress Party here. We need a recruitment strategy to make sure that the best of the good ones, the smart ones, are recruited to work in the public security system. No later than today, researchers at the NUPI have been in the media, pointing out the need for a better interconnection and flow of information between the Defence Security Service, the E-Service, the National Security Authority, the NSM, and the PST, where it is in line with the Progress Party’s proposal of the Report debate. The St. 7, org.krim message, points out that a command centre and an umbrella organisation should be established within this area. Among these, the establishment of a national cyber centre is important, in line with the guidelines given in the cybersecurity strategy. We have also made proposals to set up a technical support group in the fight for cybersecurity for the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, in line with the wishes of the strategy. Unfortunately, we were left alone on these proposals. Neither did the Right and the interpellant Werp support us, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e622	I just want to say that the reason why the Right did not support this proposal was not that there was any reluctance to better cooperation, but that we did not see that the model was the one that was the best possible, and that we would have considered it in a holistic context in a big-time announcement. I want to thank the interpellant for having raised an important debate. It is guaranteed that organized criminals will use modern, so-called modern, now they are really not so modern anymore, technical aids to commit crime. By improving the security of stores and companies, individuals and the weakest link are becoming more and more attractive. At least I think it was useful that the representatives Michaelsen and Hagebakken took up the perspective of each of us. I think the biggest threat to individuals is being naive. Maybe it's nice to be a little naive, that you don't think bad about others, but it's a big challenge. I can take an example from a data security fair, where closer to 30 pst. by those at this fair, they chose to enter their personal number on a screen placed in the room to participate in a competition – at a data security fair! It says something about what we're willing to do just to get a small, quick win, and we're not thinking about what kind of risk we're exposed to. In the case of ID theft, it's also a perspective to take into account that maybe an A society and a B society can be created. I registered that in my insurance, my housing insurance via DNB, which has an agreement with the Academics, I suddenly included ID theft. But I'm not sure if others, who don't have strong unions in their backs, have similar agreements and the ability to get such help if you are exposed to an ID theft. Also, the authorities are not well-secured against ID theft. VG Net’s reference related to the fact that each of us representatives has been given an iPad without any security training, is suitable for creating a certain interest and discussion. It could probably be useful to see how many of us are good enough to take care of our safety. It may well have been useful to have a small survey of the security measures that each of us actually sit in the national assembly of the country has taken to protect ourselves, the Stortinget and any documents that you may get by e-mail from the government apparatus – if you are in the presence of a government party – and that should not come out. Right wants your own deposit message. I think it is necessary, in the same way that a big message about organized crime was needed. Because this is such a special way to commit crime, I think we need our own debate on it. The interpellant was concerned that there was a lack of coordination, in part, in the public sector. I think the criticism that I know – although it does not come out publicly – should be addressed to various officials, different departments, from major business actors, for example. on a Norwegian base, which makes it difficult to find out who is responsible, who is responsible for what. They feel compelled to hold on to something on their own to ensure, for example: major oil installations in our marine areas, in the absence of proper follow-up and, in particular, rapid public action in a coordinated manner. When one man on July 22 was able to put extremely large parts of Norway out of play, we can ask the question: what would happen if more, much more coordinated and perhaps, preferably, up-and-coming people working together, were able to put out large systems that can regulate vital social interests, out of play? I am pleased that we are discussing a structural debate on social security. I think it's important that we now not only think about the July 22 Commission and solve some problems in relation to that kind of terror, but that we also discuss the way we have structured the different units to take care of our security. One question is whether we should consider closer cooperation, perhaps a combination of NSM and PST. They have some overlapping tasks. There are examples of sitting on each other and not cooperating so closely, even though you actually have a lot of the same problems. I ask that the Council of State, hopefully in connection with a big message, consider the question of a bundling of NSM and PST, which can be one contribution to ensuring more impact with the resources we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e643	The interpellence of the undersigned concerns two themes, two concepts: ‘ cybercrime’ and ‘ cyberattack’. I chose to take it up to one overall interpellation, and there are several reasons for that. First of all, we know that the same environments that are involved in cybercrime, and that one day they're doing digital burglaries, for example. banks and elsewhere, the next day may engage in digital attacks on national interests and strategic interests. That's why I kind of want to warn against distinguishing too much between cybercrime and cyberattacks. That is also why we from the Right are concerned with this with coordination, not separating and maintaining artificial divisions, for example. between the justice and defence sectors. But we haven't concluded in the area. That's why we're busy hearing what the government's thinking about this. That's why we're also concerned about that, for example. a big message could be a way and a tool at an overall political level involving Stortinget, in order to bring this matter into a good and hopefully comprehensive debate. I am also surprised to see that the Council of State outlines the work of the Information Security Guidelines without mentioning the strategies on which the guidelines are to be based. It is well and good that those guidelines are based on a 2003 information security strategy, which came under the Bondevik II government. I have every reason to believe that this was a good strategy at the time, but it is not certain that this strategy addresses the current challenges. Then maybe it's going to be working in a little wrong order -- you get the guidelines first and the strategy maybe then. It should be the opposite. But, as I said, I'm registering a genuine involvement in the case in the hall. It's positive. To the representative of the Progress Party, Michaelsen, I would just like to say that since we did not vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party in its time – to which she referred – it was for two reasons: we have not concluded. This is a complicated, difficult and big question that we want to work on more. Secondly, the proposal of the Progress Party was at the time linked to the big message on the fight against organised crime. In the Right's view, organised crime is important, but there is only one part of this issue. The theme is larger and covers several sectors. That's why we did what we did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e654	Once again, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the occasion for the debate on a very important topic. I must admit that when I worked in this industry, we described today's PCs as very powerful. They can do as much damage as, let's say, an AG-3, and who would really equip someone with an AG-3 without serious good training. This is actually the case in today's information society. There are a lot of people who use the new technology without competence on all aspects of it. We're talking about cybercrime and cyberattacks knowing that this is both about using new technologies to actually attack ICT systems that can destroy a lot of infrastructure, and we're also talking about ICT as the tool that can be used to commit violence or economic crime. So we have to have a broad approach to that. It is also underlying the work on the new national guidelines, which, in addition to making the challenges in this area visible, will also contribute to even clearer, clarified responsibilities. I'm pleased with the comments that fell around the way to organise this, that we're also taking on the big leadership challenge this is. Putting responsibility where it belongs is important. I also agree that in this context, we should not, in the first place, have a firm position on how the tasks are managed in cooperation between the civil and military sectors and between the public and private sectors. Here NSM actually represents a model that's good for us here at home, but that's also very interesting internationally. I know that they have many enquiries relating to the cooperation solutions that have been developed, including: between the private and public sectors. Here the government is working continuously with new measures. As I mentioned, in the wake of the establishment of the new Ministry of Justice and Defence there will be new measures that may also include changes in organisation and resources. At this point, I will not exclude anything related to the form the government will use to bring information to the Storting and to take the debate further on how to solve these challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e664	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e678	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e694	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e710	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e718	Storting goes to voting in the cases on today's map. In Case No: 1, 2 and 3 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e727	In the case of cases No. 4–6 are the second time legal proceedings. There are no proposals for comments on any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-01-17.ana.ud2485e778	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
