ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-02.ana.ud156e16	Received by the then-appointed deputation, His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince found himself on Tuesday 2 October at 4 p.m. 13 in the Grand Hall, accompanied by members of the Government and a procession of civil and military officials. The assembly sang the first verse of the «King Song». His Majesty the King's speech to the 157th great at its opening: Honored President, representatives of the people. I welcome the Stortinget to responsible work and want it to be of benefit to the country of origin. The government's aim is to give people in Norway freedom and security, freedom to live meaningful lives and security for jobs, their own economy and sound welfare services. The government builds its policy on the fact that a strong community gives individual freedom to most. The government will work for a society characterised by openness, tolerance and diversity, and for people throughout Norway to develop their own skills, create businesses and develop their rich opportunities. We live in a Europe characterised by economic instability, social unrest and high unemployment. While our neighbouring countries are struggling, we experience low unemployment in Norway, industrial innovation and high levels of professional participation. In Norway, there are small differences between people. We trust each other and the community. The government will work for it to remain that way. The government will ensure jobs and good communities. At the same time, the government will invest in the future, in the competence of teachers, in research and in joint schools throughout the country. Norway must be a leading country in environmental policy. Oil and gas resources will continue to benefit all in Norway. The government will continue the Norwegian welfare model that combines even income distribution, solid economic growth, high professional activity and macro-economic stability. The individual's work is part of and pays for our common well-being. Work gives each individual financial autonomy. Working for all is the key prerequisite for avoiding poverty. The government is following developments in the labour market closely and will continue to work towards social dumping and unprofessionalism in the labour market. The government will launch a grant experiment with employers who employ people with disabilities. The government will promote legislative proposals with measures to combat the misuse of welfare systems. The government maintains the long-term investment strategy for the State pension fund, including in periods of turmoil in the financial markets. Wide opening-up of the management of the fund gives stability and thus good assumptions for the benefit of both current and future generations of petroleum revenues. In the State pension fund notification, the government will report on the management of the fund. The Government will follow up on the work of the 22nd July Commission and will submit a communication to the Stortingen on this matter. It's going to be more practice, and it's going to have to be done better. The government has started work on setting up a new police emergency centre in Oslo. The ability of the defence to assist the police in emergency situations shall be strengthened. From January next year, the military helicopter standby on Back shall be able to provide enforcement assistance to the police. Efforts to secure objects that may be particularly vulnerable to attack shall be reinforced. The government will ensure good health services for people and will follow up the Interaction Reform. The government attaches great importance to quality and patient safety in healthcare and will promote electronic interaction. The government will submit messages to Storting about this. Those in need of care should be able to master their own everyday life and experience the quality of life and safety. The Government will present a Communication on innovation and new technologies in care services. The government will develop a new cancer strategy. The government will continue to invest in education and research. It is necessary to secure the welfare society and meet the major challenges we face both nationally and globally. The government will submit a notice to the Swedish Research Agency. The Communication will highlight the interaction between education, research and innovation in society and business. The government has great ambitions for Norwegian school. Students are different and learn in different ways. That's why the school has to give everyone the opportunity to learn more. The Government will submit a communication to the Storting on the further development of the quality of initial training. The government will promote the quality of kindergartens and will present a new communication on the future kindergarten. The government will further strengthen the competence and capacity of municipal child protection. The Government aims to present proposals for amendments to the Child Protection Act. The government will facilitate the further development of municipal services by the municipal sector and strengthen the well-being of its citizens. The government, in cooperation with the municipalities, will strengthen housing construction and will present a communication on housing policy. The Government will present a communication on district and regional policy. The notification shall address the policy on value creation and development throughout the country. The government will conduct an active enterprise policy across the country and bet on areas where we have special prerequisites for creating values. The government will present a new strategy for the mineral industry and an action plan for culture and nutrition. The government will continue its efforts to further develop agricultural incomes and welfare policies and will explore how the principle of good trading practices and consumer concerns can best be addressed in legislation. The government will continue to work to implement simplifications that save industry from administrative expenditure. The Government will present a message on the Digital Agenda for Norway. It will discuss how ICT can be exploited for continued growth and well-being. The government will provide a communication to the Stortinget on how to increase the value creation of Norwegian seafood along the coast through knowledge-based management and environmentally sustainable production. The government will submit a communication to the Stortinget with a comprehensive North Sea management plan with Skagerrak. The Government will then have submitted management plans for all the Norwegian sea areas. The government will pursue a sustainable development policy. Norway shall be a driver of an ambitious climate agreement with binding obligations for all countries. The government will present a communication to the Storting on the expected impacts of climate change on Norway and a policy to adapt to the challenges and opportunities of changing climate. The government will continue to work to improve the capacity of society to manage flood and escape risks. The government will set up a parallel investment in three areas in petroleum policy – increasing extraction from existing fields and expanding drifting findings, continuing an active exploration of open land and implementing the opening processes for Jan Mayen and the Barents Sea south-east. The Government will continue to facilitate the development of renewable energy. The El Certification Scheme, network policy and active concession policy will contribute to increased water and wind power deployment and to improved security of supply for electricity. A well-functioning transport system is important for increased value creation and quality of life, and for putting the whole country into use. The Government will submit a notification to the Stortningen on the National Transport Plan for the period 2014-2023. The Government aims at proposing to amend the legislation on the preparation of terrorist acts and on organised crime. The government will appoint a sample to assess the rules of criminal law on impracticability and how experts are to be used in criminal matters where there is doubt as to the permissiveness of the perpetrator. In the field of foreign policy, the government emphasises an effective and legal return practice. It is a government objective that persons who do not fulfil the conditions for residence in the country should be returned quickly, preferably voluntarily, but if necessary by coercion. The objective of integration policy is equal opportunities, rights and obligations for immigrants and their children to participate and contribute to working and social life. The government will provide a message of integration. The government will continue its work on gender equality and will provide a communication on gender equality. The government implements the Cultural Promise. The cultural promise contributes to the participation of more people in cultural activities, in voluntary teams and associations. The government will complete the work of the church settlement in accordance with the Storting's assumptions. The Government is reviewing the challenges of the defence sector’s competence and will present a communication to that effect. The government will follow up the work of phase-in new F-35 fighter aircraft. The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are firmly established, including a strong commitment to the UN and international law, membership of NATO, the EEA Agreement and Norway’s non-EU membership. The Nordic regions will continue to be the main strategic focus of foreign policy by the government. The government will further develop cooperation with Russia and mark the 20th anniversary of the Barents Cooperation in the Churches in June 2013. The EU is Norway’s largest economic partner. The government will pursue an active European policy and work specifically to safeguard Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. The Government will submit a communication to the Storting on cooperation with the EU. The Government will present a Communication to the European Council on democracy, fair distribution and economic growth in developing countries. I beg God to bless the work of the Great One, and declare Norway's 157th big thing too open. Message from the King to the Kingdom of Norway’s state and governance in time after the last notification, read by the Council of State Hadia Tajik. In accordance with the Constitution, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. On 13 August, the government received the report from the 22nd July Commission. The report has been sent on the phone. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Preparedness made the most of the report of 28 August this year. They also provided information on how the government will follow him up and did good for actions taken and future actions. The government has put forward a hearing proposal on new criminal offences offences to prepare for terrorist acts and changes in the rules on organised crime. It is agreed that there will be an empty space on Alna at the disposal of the establishment of a new police emergency centre in Oslo. The government has decided to create a national memory center for July 22nd in the government quarter. The memorial shall honor all the victims, the survivors, and the volunteers. A memory space should be created on the land side of the Utøya River. In March 2012, Norway ran five million inhabitants. The population growth in Norway in 2011 measured in human numbers has never been greater, and it's almost 100 years since Norway had greater population growth in percent. The Norwegian economy has been successful since the setback in the financial crisis. Value creation has now increased ten quarters in a row. The employment rate is higher than the peak in 2008, and the unemployment rate remains low. The lower activity of the trading partners has led to weak developments in traditional exports of goods in the last year. Strong growth in the demand from the petroleum industry has helped maintain growth in the Norwegian economy. Good developments in the Norwegian economy are reflected in the labour market. The growth in the number of persons employed has been high and increasing throughout 2011 and into 2012. In 2012, it is estimated that the number of persons employed will increase by almost twice the average over the last 20 years. The high growth in employment is primarily due to the fact that high levels of immigration have contributed to high levels of growth in labour supply. However, the level of the unemployed remains at a low level. In the second quarter of this year, the total number of unemployed was 3 pst. by the labour force. Growth in the world economy is still weak. The industrialised countries, in particular, are the ones that are dwindling. Growth is still relatively high in China and other emerging economies, but also here the pace is slowing down. Current statistics and mood indicators point towards further weak developments in industrialised countries in the future. The fear that some euro area countries will not be able to cope with government debt has for a long time been a source of concern in financial markets. Since the euro area’s sovereign debt problems became apparent almost three years ago, important measures have been taken by the EU’s governance and by the countries in crisis. However, the fundamental problems have not been solved. While there has been some improvement in the labour market in the United States in the last six months, unemployment is increasing in several European countries. In many countries, youth unemployment is particularly high. Economic growth in industrialised countries is too weak to significantly increase employment, and unemployment is expected to remain high in the future. In 2012, the government set up a job strategy for people with disabilities. The strategy focuses in particular on people with disabilities under 30 years of age who need help to get into work. Between 2005 and 2012, revenue in the local government sector has actually increased by about 60 billion. krona, in 2012-krona. In 2011, income in the municipal sector increased by 8.4 billion. krones. Employment in local government increased in 2011 by 10 300 people, corresponding to 2.5 pst. It is higher than in 2010 and roughly the same growth as in 2008 and 2009. In the first half of 2012, the average number of persons employed was 516,000 in the municipal sector. The Nordic region is the main foreign policy area of government. In November 2011, the government presented the first message to the Stortinget on the north. In the message, the government outlines Norway's main objectives and priorities for the next 20 years. The government attaches great importance to promoting sustainable development. The main challenges for such development are international poverty, unfair distribution, major environmental degradation, anthropogenic climate change, conflict and discrimination. Norway is at the forefront of the fight against global poverty. In 2009, the goal of Norwegian assistance was to make up 1 pst. of gross national income reached. Assistance has been maintained at this level since it is among the highest in the world. At the same time, Norway plays an active role in the international struggle against illegal capital movements to prevent poor countries from losing money they sorely need when billions disappear without being taxed. The government has continued to modernise its defenses and has followed up the current long-term plan with the additional privileges that were announced. In June 2012, the Stortinget endorsed a new long-term defence plan. The plan involves a balanced defence structure that safeguards Norway's interests and values. The government is continuing its efforts in the north by monitoring and exercising sovereignty and authority. The government has submitted a new climate notification for Stortinget. In the message, a person will stay at the high level of ambition from the climate agreement. In 2012, the government continued to step up the road and rail routes in line with the objective of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. This is in line with the Church Agreement on changes in the Constitution and the Church Law, among others. so that selected bodies in the Norwegian Church have been given authority to appoint bishops and prosters. The Government has submitted the digitisation programme Online with its citizens, which is based on digital communications being the general rule for contacts between the inhabitants and the administration. Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood. The export value was 53 billion in 2011. kroner, of which the aquaculture industry stood for almost 60 pst. Norwegian seafood produces about 46 000 annual works, when one calculates the ring effects. There is still a high activity in the petroleum sector. The value of oil and gas exports in 2011 was approximately 562 billion. krona and 30 pst. of government income came from this sector. Norwegian oil production has gradually declined since 2001, while gas sales and exports are increasing. About 44 pst. by Norway's resource base has been produced until now. The government issued export credit law in spring 2012, which provided the basis for setting up the State company Export Credit Norway AS. It will ensure a robust and competitive funding offer for Norwegian business. The government continues its efforts to make training in youth more practical, varied and relevant. As a follow-up to the youth education message, Motivation — mastering — opportunities, all youth schools introduced electoral courses for the 8th stage this year. The objective of increasing the implementation of further training is a key priority for the government. The objective shall be achieved through close follow-up and further work to provide appropriate content and quality training at all stages. The New GIV project is aimed specifically at elephants who have a weak background from high school or who have left the school. All in all, 3 500 teachers will receive schooling in methods to adapt pupils with weak professional qualifications. A total of 13 000 elephants will be directly covered by this training during the three years of the project. In 2012, the government provided a significant increase in capacity in higher education through new study places and new buildings. The increase, together with previous increases, will give approximately 23 400 new places of study by 2017. From 1 January 2012, the Government has extended the right and obligation to Norwegian training from 300 to 600 hours, so as to enable immigrants to learn even better Norwegian and gain knowledge of Norwegian society. In December 2011, the government presented the Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012 Agricultural and food policy – Welcome to the table. The notification was dealt with in the Stortinget in April 2012. The government has started the interaction reform, which will provide patients and users with better services where they live. The new People's Hellova has entered into force. In 2012, the consumption of Norwegian households has increased. Low interest rates, good income growth and high savings give reason to expect this development to continue. At the same time, there is strong growth in petroleum investment in 2012 as well, and many mainland companies report better growth prospects. Norway, however, is not the focus of development. If the international situation worsens, Norwegian export earnings at high cost may be subject to additional pressure. High debt makes Norwegian households vulnerable to unexpected loss of income or an increase in borrowing rates. The government follows the rule of action for a gradual and defensive phase-in of petroleum revenues in the Norwegian economy. Economic policy shall at the same time contribute to a stable development of production and employment. That means that we have to keep on spending money when the economy goes well, so that if necessary we can use the budget to stimulate demand in bad times. This freedom of trade was good to have under the financial crisis. With a view to low inflation, weaker growth prospects internationally and increasing financial market unrest, Norway’s Bank’s interest rate reduced by 0.5 percentage points at its interest rate meeting in December 2011 and by an additional 0.25 percentage points in March this year to 1.5 pst. The governance rate has been kept unchanged at this level. Government pension funds – Government pension funds abroad and State pension funds Norway – had a combined market value at the end of the second quarter of 2012 of 3697 billion. krones. The results over the last year and so far in 2012 have been marked by a high level of financial market security with regard to the growth prospects for the world economy. It is important that a venturer maintains a long-term investment strategy, including in periods of financial market turmoil. High upsurge in how the State pension fund is managed provides good resources for the benefit of both current and future generations of petroleum revenues. The review of this year’s report on the State pension fund shows that there is a broad political agreement on the strategy for managing our common savings funds. The revision of the 2012 State budget in May meant the use of petroleum revenues of 116 billion. crowns, measured by the structural oil-corrected budget deficit. That's six billion. in the national budget 2012 and 16 billion. dollars below the expected real return on the State pension fund abroad. Employment has increased sharply in the first half of 2012, while unemployment has remained low. According to national accounts, in the second quarter of 2012, there were almost 20,000 more employed than the previous quarter. The index of consumer prices increased by 1.2 pst. in 2011 and price growth has remained moderate to date in 2012. The krone course strengthened significantly from the turn of the year until March this year, but the page has weakened somewhat. Measured by the competitive price index at the end of September was just over 2.5 pst. stronger than at the turn of the year and almost 5 pst. stronger than the average over the last five years. After falling first in April to mid-June, the oil price has taken its toll. The oil price is now well $110 per barrel. The external balance of operations showed a surplus of 393 billion. kroner in 2011. That's $80 billion. kroner more than one year earlier. Foreign trade figures for the first half of 2012 show that the export value of traditional goods was 1,8 pst. lower than in the same period of the previous year, while the import value for traditional goods was 1.9 pst. higher. The government attaches great importance to promoting sustainable economic and social development. The main challenges for such a development are international poverty, the reduction of natural scarcity, anthropogenic climate change and the spread of pollutants. Since 2005, the government has increased the rights of ordinary district and regional agencies by more than 700 million. krones. The government has continued its regional commitment in 2012 and beyond. through increased resources to business environments and the continuation of the various activities of attractive communities, including: The Bolyst and the MERKUR programme. In 2012, the government set up a new value creation programme for local and regional parks. The forest is the most important housing policy tool in the country and is intended to help those with low income and high construction costs to live in an appropriate dwelling. The scheme has been strengthened by a law of its own that clears and guarantees the rights of the seeker. The government has presented a big message on a forward-looking building policy that facilitates energy-efficient buildings of good quality. At the same time, the building rules shall be simpler and thus lead to a reduction in the time and costs of the parties involved. That's allowed 20 million. SEK for a new supplement to increase housing in municipalities with small and uncertain housing markets or lack of housing. The scheme is important because many smaller municipalities can have jobs, but not housing for transferees. Until October 2013, Norway has the Presidency of the Barents Council and is driving the further development of cooperation in the north between the four countries of the Barents region. The work of the Arctic Council is given great weight. The government has conducted an offensive European policy based on the Soria Moria Declaration and the European Policy Implementation Notice. The government has submitted a message to the Stortning on EEA funds. Norwegian efforts and assistance for regional stability and Euro-Atlantic integration in the Western Balkans have continued. The government has contributed to strengthening Nordic cooperation under the leadership of Norway in the Nordic Council of Ministers and to follow up the Stoltenberg report on closer cooperation in foreign and security policy in the Nordic region. Through membership of the UN Human Rights Council 2009–2012, Norway has contributed to strengthening the UN's efforts in the field of human rights. Norway has also increased its response to the death penalty and has a central role in the support group of the International Commission on Death Penalty, ICDP. The Government has provided a major communication on global health in foreign and development policy, focusing on strengthening further global efforts to improve health for women and children, reducing diseases and contributing to human security through health. The government helped to achieve important results at the UN Conference on Resilient Development, Rio +20, on the development of sustainability, fair distribution, energy, food security, seas, equality, forests and the valuation of natural capital. The government has recently submitted a communication to the Stortinget on the Norwegian United Nations policy. The Communication provides a comprehensive Norwegian approach to the United Nations to strengthen the impact of our priorities and the ability of the United Nations to address global challenges in a changing value. Norway was 11-14. September of this year hosted and hosted the third State Party meeting of the Convention on Class Ammunition. The agreement provides for the strengthening of civil protection. Afghanistan is still the main area of Norwegian military intervention in international operations. The Norwegian presence in the Faryab province was liquidated in September 2012 and the Norwegian military contribution is concentrated on Kabul and Mazar-e Sharif. The government has worked to ensure that close defence cooperation between NATO members is continued. The main theme of the Chicago NATO Summit in May 2012 was how NATO will meet in the future in a world marked by the defence budget under pressure and shifting geopolitical balance. The summit takes important decisions on, inter alia: a defence package to make NATO better equipped to meet new security challenges, the future role of NATO in Afghanistan and finalise a review of defence and deterrence policy in the alliance that reduces the role of nuclear weapons. The government has further pursued a close dialogue with the EU on security and defence policy. Despite fewer hijackings, piracy is still a serious challenge for Norwegian shipping and a major threat to the lives and health of seafarers. The international military effort in the Indian Ocean and the increase in the use of naval prevention have led to fewer attacks. The agreement made by Statoil and the Russian oil company Rosneft in May 2012 is an example of the new possibilities for cooperation open to the part-line agreements with Russia. On 29 May, the Border Bus Agreement entered into force and allows the people of the neighbouring border area to cross the border between Norway and Russia without a visa. It promotes the development of cooperation with Russia. The budget for 2012 has been approved by the Government to provide the aid budget of 27 835 million in total. krona, corresponding to 1 pst. of the expected gross national income. With this high level of assistance, both in crowns and as part of gross national income, Norway is among the largest contributors to international solidarity. Central to Norwegian development policy has been the fight against poverty, green development and gender equality. The government has started work on a national strategy for more co-ordinated and targeted efforts for value creation based on the natural and cultural heritage. The strategy will ensure a more effective use of public tools and increase value creation in the districts based on natural and cultural heritage. The government has dropped a public selection to assess ecosystem service values in Norway. Ecosystem services include, in addition to food, fibre and fuels, also more invisible common goods such as water treatment, pollination and recreational values. It will be an important contribution to understanding Norway’s natural capital better. The size decided in May 2012 to change climate allowances. The legislative changes implement the revised EU quota collective in Norway. The Directive extends and improves the EU ETS with effect from 2013. The Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in Durban in December 2011 is yet to be completed with a comprehensive positive outcome with four main elements: 1) A new commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol. 2) Decisions to negotiate a binding agreement covering all countries – the Durban platform. Negotiations shall be concluded until 2015 and the agreement shall apply from 2020. At the centre of these negotiations is also a work programme for increasing ambitions, also towards 2020. 3) establishment of the Green Climate Fund; 4) Follow-up to the Cancún Agreements, including, inter alia: a work programme on long-term funding, the establishment of a framework for adaptation, new legislation on reporting and control of all countries and the concrete follow-up of discards by 2020. The effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from forests in developing countries was continued and further developed. A large-scale bilateral cooperation with Brazil, Guyana, Tanzania and Indonesia has now been established and support for strategic development and capacity building is being provided in more than 40 developing countries through multilateral multi-government funds. Cooperation with Indonesia to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation, forest degradation and peat bogs, launched in 2010, gave first results. A two-year moratorium on the granting of new licences for the clearing of forests and peat marshes was launched in May 2011. In line with, inter alia: Norwegian negotiating positions became the world’s leaders that emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries would become part of a new future climate regime. The Cancún Climate Summit decided that such measures should address the rights of indigenous peoples and preserve natural forests. The reports of the real-time evaluation of the Climate and Forest Initiative, launched in May, show that Norway’s contribution has been decisive for the progress achieved in climate negotiations in this area. Although it is still too early to draw conclusions on results in individual countries, the evaluation indicates that Norway’s efforts have had significant positive effects in cooperation countries. The government has continued military contributions in a number of operations abroad within the framework of the UN, NATO and the EU, inter alia. through the United Nations Observatory mission in Syria and the strengthening contribution in Afghanistan. In line with NATO’s strategy in Afghanistan, Norway has transferred the Norwegian camp in the Faryab province and the security responsibility to Afghan authorities. Work on providing personnel in international operations recognition and follow-up has been strengthened in line with the Government Action Plan. Action across the social sectors has been particularly central. The government has put in place a strategic work for competence reform in the defence sector. The size ended in June 2012 until the government submitted the purchase of up to 52 new fighter aircraft. The first two planes have been ordered for delivery from 2015. The size has also joined a future base structure for the Air Force. The government has continued its efforts to secure possible assignments for the Norwegian industry within the F-35 cooperation in the future. The government has strengthened the work of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security through a series of concrete actions in the fields of operations, competence building and recruitment. [[2000]] The number of registered persons with reduced working capacity has decreased slightly in the last few years. The number of response sites for this group declined slightly from 2010 to 2011, but continued to increase from 2011 to 2012. The number of job vacancies has been somewhat reduced as the labour market has stabilised. The overall level of action planned for the unemployed and people with reduced working capacity is 71,200 places in 2012. Most Norwegians have had a good wage growth in the last few years. The total salary growth in 2011 was 4.2 pst. Wage settlement in 2012 was a main concern in most tariff areas. There were disputes in some tariff areas, but most disputes were resolved by ordinary mediation. UNIO and the State had some say in voluntary pay, while the conflicts in the base agreements and the weights agreement were settled by forced pay. The Nav reform has mainly been implemented, the last Nav office was created in 2011. Both the organisational establishment and the implementation of major content reforms are in place. The reform period has been a requirement for the Labour and Welfare Act. It means that further development of the facility will have a more long-term and holistic perspective. The overarching picture shows that performance trends are moving in the right direction in many important areas of the Working and Welfare Act. The situation in performance management is now considerably better compared to the previous period of the reform, even though the length of the procedure is still long for some services. In addition, the budget has improved the follow-up of important user groups such as job seekers, health-care providers and beneficiaries of redundancy payments. User surveys show that users are now more satisfied with the Services of the Working and Welfare Session than they have been with the last three years. The State of Employment and Welfare has many and partly old ICT solutions. Significant improvements in the efficiency and quality of work and welfare management procedures require extensive modernisation of ICT systems in the Working and Welfare Session. In our Ministry of Labour, the size gave a frame of 1,750 million. crowns to renew ICT systems in the building. In 2012, the government continued its work to promote a serious and decent working life. Work has been started on the establishment of a tripartite industry programme, and so far such an industry programme has been established in the reindeer management sector. The Government has also introduced a public authorisation scheme for reindeer companies from 1 September 2012. The government has launched Prop. 74 L for 2011–2012 on changes in health and safety at work and service law On 7 June 2012, the European Parliament adopted the legislative proposals implementing the EU agency directive. It is agreed to introduce a non-discrimination principle, which means that temporary agency workers should have the same pay and working conditions as they would have had if they had been added to tenants. A number of measures have also been adopted to ensure compliance with the principle of non-discrimination and to contribute to a serious temporary agency business. The government cooperates with the social partners to follow up the IA agreements. New rules on the follow-up of sick leave workers entered into force on 1 July 2011. For most health care professionals, activity is more health-promoting than passiveness. Therefore, these changes support the increased use of classified sick message. More effective responses have also been put in place to those who do not fulfil their responsibilities in the absence of sick leave. Together with the social partners and the Medical Association, the authorities have a continuous focus on developments to ensure that the new legislation is properly followed and complied with. In order to support the health care provider role, professional guidance counsellors have been developed in the sick leave work and regular feedback systems on the health care practice of the doctors. There is an uplifting decline in sick leave. Good information work is crucial to keep track of the interim objective of the IA Agreements and an important theme for cooperation between the Contracting Parties. The total sick leave in the second quarter of 2012 was 6.0 pst. of all annual contracted works in the quarter. There's a decrease of 7.6 pst. from the second quarter of 2011. One of the objectives of the agreement on an inclusive working life is to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. from the 2001 level. Sick leave in the second quarter of 2012 is about 14 pst. lower than the level in the second quarter of 2001. The government presented the main features of the planned occupational injury reform in the revised national budget in 2012. The proposal is to merge the current two legislations on occupational injury into one law and to bring the administrative treatment into one line. It will provide a fairer and more timely regulatory framework that can respond to the challenges we face with a fast-changing working life. It will also provide gender equality in a better way than at present. The occupational injury reform is very extensive, with a number of issues of a legal, organisational and financial nature. The government has submitted a proposal to the Storting on a pension scheme for depositors and government members. Construction activity for road and rail is high. In 2012, the work on the E6/Dovreban joint project will start along the southern part of Mjøsa. A number of large road systems are, or will be, open in 2012. Many new installations are under way. The Storting has agreed to several new toll projects. Several railway development projects are either completed, under construction or started in the last year. The result is the railway bet. Persontoga is clearly more punctual in the first half of 2012 and the goal of 90 pst. of all passenger and freight trains shall be punctual, met. The renewal of the Oslo network has led to a better and more stable train provision. At the turn of the year 2011/2012, a new traffic agreement between the State and NSB AS was concluded for the period 2012-2017 with a framework of 15.4 billion. krones. The government has continued its strong commitment to road safety. In 2011, 168 people lost their lives in road traffic. Every death in traffic is one too much, but we have to go all the way back to 1954 to find the corresponding low number of fatalities in traffic. The commitment to road safety has done a great deal to this reduction. The number of collective passengers continued to increase from 2010 to 2011. Following the bidding competition, the Ministry of Transport has, with effect from 1 April 2012, agreed to purchase air routes for 18 existing routes and one new one. For the routes in the four northernmost counties, the agreements have been concluded for five years, while for the other routes the contract period is four years. The government has submitted a notification to the Stortinget on the operation of Posten Norge AS. After the terrorist attack against the Government Quartet, securing, cleaning and asbestos remediation has been carried out. On behalf of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs, external consultants are now implementing a draft currency arrangement to clarify various options for building up the Government Quartet. As a result, the main gravity of the departments is to be located in the current government quarter. Negotiations on a Nordic co-convention increased in 2011. The composition of the three Nordic countries is represented in the negotiating delegations. Thanks to good governance for many years, one of us has managed to build up the world's largest cod stock in the Barents Sea and good climatic conditions. The other large fish stocks are also well managed and fish quotas are historically high. The government has given high priority to measures against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and other types of fishing crime and is actively working nationally and internationally to end discarding fish. Norway, Sweden and Denmark signed a joint declaration in November 2011 to ban drafts in Skagerrak. Norway has also worked to influence the EU to introduce draft bans in its reform of the Common Fisheries Policy. Total aquaculture production, which accounts for the majority of salmon, was around 1.1 million in 2011. tonnes. The marine industry will operate within environmentally sound frameworks and, at present, specific efforts are being made to address the challenges associated with salmon and escape. For the first time since 1991, salmon industry has not met with trade policy measures — after the United States removed the penal customs duty on fresh, whole salmon from Norway in January. The Norwegian authorities and the salmon industry actively contributed to this. In May, the monitoring and information system BarentsWatch was launched. BarentsWatch, an important part of the government's Northern Region Initiative, is a pioneering project in which all the Norwegian government's knowledge of our coastal and marine areas will be gathered in a portal that will be accessible to everyone. It will lead to better safety at sea, increased insight and knowledge, and give a glimpse of what's happening in our oceans. The first version of BarentsWatch is based on data from six state agencies, but the number of services will gradually increase, and subsequently nearly 30 cooperating partners will provide data and services to BarentsWatch. The work on the identification of previously disputed areas in the Barents Sea started in 2011 through the MAREANO Bottom Mapping Programme. Sea transport is about 45 pst. of all goods in Norway. The purpose of the government is to transfer a larger part of the transport to sea and track. In order to strengthen maritime transport, work has been started on a short sea shipping strategy. Coastal charges have been reduced to cover 10 pst. of the costs incurred by the State as a means of navigation and measures along the fairway. The government is busy with safety at sea and oil protection. The Government has strengthened maritime safety beyond the northern seas, and it is decided that a State unloading service should be provided for all maritime traffic in the Svalbard waters in the same way as for the mainland. It will be an important contribution to reducing the risk of adverse events at Svalbard, in order to avoid harm to life, health and the environment. A State Preservation Service has been established for waters from Røst to Border Jakobselv and off the coast of both the South and the West. The work of cutting up the intersection ‘Murmansk’ in Hasvik Municipality began in the summer of 2011 and is expected to be completed in 2012. The oil discharge from the wreck ‘Erich Giese’, ‘Neuenfels’ and ‘Boardale’ at Narvik and in the Westphalian Seabed has also been carried out. Norway and Russia have jointly sent an application to the United Nations Maritime Organisation, IMO, for the establishment of a mandatory vessel reporting system in the Barents Sea, Barents SRS. The system will increase maritime safety in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. The application is expected to be finalised by the IMO in November 2012. There is still a high activity in the petroleum industry. Ten new development plans were discussed in 2011, ranging from smaller time-critical projects to the revitalisation of the Ecofisk field to 65 billion. krones. In 2011, it was invested for about 145 billion. crowns on the continental shelf. That corresponds to about 26 pst. of total real investment in the country. The level of investment is high. In 2012, investments of about 180 billion are expected. kronor, and investment is expected to increase further in the years ahead. Petroleum policy provides for a new activity in the north. TFO 2011, allocations in predefined areas, were granted in February 2012 and cover 60 extraction rights to a total of 42 companies. The 22nd concession round was announced in June 2012. 86 blocks were lit, of which 72 were in the Barents Sea and the rest in the Norwegian Sea. New, big findings in the north have created new enthusiasm for the north. Following the agreement with Russia on the demarcation of the Barents Sea and the Pole Sea, the government has launched an impact assessment for the Barents Sea south-east with a view to opening up the area of petroleum industry. There is a planned public hearing of the impact of the upcoming winter. If the impact assessment provides a basis for this, the government will present a big message that suggests opening up these areas to petroleum industry. The process of finding out about petroleum activity in the seas around Jan Mayen follows a corresponding timetable. The government has started to gather knowledge about the consequences of the petroleum industry in the northeastern Norwegian Sea. In close cooperation with local stakeholders and the professional community, a particular emphasis will be placed on societal impacts on local communities in the region. In 2011, the turnover of the Norwegian-based petroleum-rich supplier industry amounted to approximately 350 billion. And of this, approximately 150 billion. kronor international turnover. For over 40 years, industry has built its competitiveness by solving increasingly demanding tasks on Norwegian continental shelf. Industry has become world leader in seismics, underwater production systems, drilling equipment and service vessels. Industry has knowledge-based workplaces throughout Norway. The opening of the CO2 capture technology centre at Mongstad in May this year was an important brand day in the strong Norwegian effort to capture and store CO2. The Technology Centre is a central part of the Norwegian initiative. The technology centre is unique in a global context, and it is the first in its kind that can test two different capture technologies from two different CO2 sources side by side. The planning of full-scale CO2 capture in Mongstad is based on plans. The total electricity production was approximately 128 TWh in 2011, while consumption was about 125 TWh. In 2011, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate granted permission to water and wind power projects that could provide a total annual production of about 700 GWh. In the same year, 51 wind power projects, a wind power plant and extension of a wind power plant became operational. These will contribute to a total annual production of about 800 GWh. In July 2012, the Ministry of Oil and Energy granted a concession to five wind turbines in Dalane, Rogaland – Norway to no major wind power project. Wind power plants will have an installed power of more than 400 MW and an annual production of about 1.3 TWh. In the first half of 2012, the Ministry of Oil and Energy granted a final concession for the development of 19 hydroelectric power plants, among which Samibelg and Storåvatn in the Nordic region of about 200 GWh. It will be the largest hydroelectric power building since 2004. In December 2011, the Ministry of Oil and Energy took decisions on the sections that stood at the new 420 kV power line between Ørskog and Sogndal. Parts of the line were agreed earlier in 2011. Everything is designed to ensure that the power line is completed by the end of 2015. With this power line in place, the electricity supply will be secure throughout the region and the required power situation will improve. It also facilitates the realisation of renewable and climate-friendly energy in the states it is in. In June 2012, the Ministry of Oil and Energy granted the concession to BKK Nett AS for a 300/420 kV power line from Kolsnes in Øygarden municipality via Radøy and Austrheim municipalities to Mongstad in the municipality of Lindås in Hordaland. The power management will make an important contribution to achieving acceptable security of supply in the Bergens region. In the summer of 2011, the extreme value of ‘Days’ caused major damage to the electricity infrastructure. More than 570,000 power customers happened. In order to avoid extensive power outages, as we experienced during the ‘Days’, the maintenance and modernisation of the network is crucial. The Government has submitted the Report. St. 14 for 2011–2012 We build Norway – about the deployment of the mains power grid. With this message, the government facilitates the expansion and reinvestment of the central transmission system. External quality assurance and early political notification of needs and concepts shall be introduced from the Ministry. In addition, the power to decide on concessions is transferred to the King of State Council. The Government has submitted the Report. St. 15 for 2011–2012 How to live with the dangers. Through this message, the government will be better able to manage flood risk and scrap risk. The message indicates the direction of the government's work on this forward. It implies a holistic approach covering both monitoring, spatial planning, security measures, monitoring, alerting, preparedness, crisis management and research/development. On 1 January 2012, there was a launch for the common electricity certificate market with Sweden. This is the first time two countries have established a common renewable energy support scheme. With the single electricity certificate market, Norway and Sweden are cooperating in the long term with a comprehensive goal of increasing renewable electricity production by 26.4 TWh in 2020. Enova has concluded new renewable energy production and energy saving agreements corresponding to approximately 1.3 TWh in 2011. Before the end of 2011, Enova had a target of triggering projects that provide new environmentally friendly energy production and energy saving corresponding to 18 TWh/year. The total contractual profit or loss over the period 2001–2011 is approximately 16.6 TWh/year, of which 7.2 TWh/year is final reported. That means 92 pst. the target for the period 2001-2011 was reached. Enova shall promote an environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and energy production and contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In June 2012, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Enova concluded a new four-year mandate agreement for Enova in the period 2012-2015. In the period, Enova shall contribute to contractual energy and climate performance corresponding to a total of 61⁄4 TWh by the end of 2015. Norway concluded a free trade agreement with Montenegro through EFTA on 14 November 2011. The Free Trade Agreements with Ukraine and Peru entered into force in the spring of 2012 and negotiations with the Central American states of Costa Rica, Honduras, Panama and Vietnam were launched in the same time period. The government has submitted a communication to the Norwegian Government on Innovation and SIVA SF — Growth Tools. The government has put forward a R & D strategy for nanotechnology for the period 2012–2021. The government has submitted a legislative proposal on changes in patent governance. The government has presented a new travel strategy - Destination Norway. To follow up Message. St. 10 for 2010–2011 Update of the management plan for the marine environment in the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the government has started to acquire knowledge about the effects and ring-fences of increased investment in value creation, among others. travel and fishing activities in North Norway. The government has joined the Stortinget for a 100 million package of measures. krones for the three-processing industry. The government has put forward a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. The government has presented the government's ownership policy, which makes sense for the objectives of state ownership in business and the framework for the exercise of industrial policy. The Management of Ownership has been significantly strengthened by recruiting ten new employees to the Department of Agriculture and Trade. In the last ten years, the average number of deaths has been estimated to have occurred in the last 10 years. 30 persons in connection with the use of recreational craft. A working group led by the Maritime Director has proposed measures to enhance the safety of recreational craft. On 15 June 2012, the Government presented a new Communication to the European Parliament on social security. Attacks on 22 July 2011, floods combined with failure of the telecommunications network, extreme weather, the spread of volcanic ash from Iceland and the pandemic illustrate the breadth and challenges of work on social security and preparedness and underline the need to strengthen this work. The message must be seen in conjunction with the forthcoming Stortinget message on the follow-up of the report from the 22nd July Commission. The Ministry has identified a selection to evaluate during the year how PST uses its resources, whether they are added to the PST has the right professional competence and makes a comparison with another Nordic Security Service. In view of this, the selection should make an overall assessment of the resource situation in PST sets in the light of the tasks that PST will perform and the threat image in question. A central civil situation centre has been established, which has been added to the Crisis Support Unit, KSE, under the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The center is 24-hour staff. In June, the government set out a new instruction for the work of the ministries with social security and preparedness. The instruction reinforces and clarifies the coordination role of the Ministry of Justice and Defence and clarifies the requirements for emergency work in the departments. In the autumn of 2011, the government made proposals for the purchase of new rescue helicopters. The efforts in this area will lead to a significant strengthening of the rescue service. An independent law on arrest warrants replaces the extradition of offenders between the EU, Iceland and Norway with a more effective system. With effect from 1 January 2012, the minimum share capital requirement for a limited liability company is reduced from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000. In line with the proposal made by the government in Prop. 135 L for 2010–2011, in the Stortinget on 15 December 2011 take decisions on the law on changes in criminal law, criminal law, criminal law enforcement law, conflict law, etc. [[children and punishment]] Strengthening child care — both in terms of prevention, detection, protection and assistance — is one of the actions of the new action plan against violence in close relations presented by the government in January 2012. In addition, there is a priority for the government to prevent by working for a safer and fairer and more equal society. The government has submitted an action plan against selection. Important areas of action will be prevention, assistance and health care for victims, quality of criminal proceedings in the police and judicial system, cooperation and coordination, and their knowledge and competences. Foreign managers have been provided with additional resources to reduce the duration of treatment, especially in matters that include children. The government has submitted a notification to the Children’s Grotesque. For 2012, the number of people coming to seek asylum is relatively stable compared to the number for 2011. In the first half of 2012, about 4,300 asylum seekers arrived in Norway. The government prioritises the development and deployment of a new digital radio link for the emergency and emergency missions, the Emergency Network, which is a major and necessary investment in societal critical infrastructure. The development is under way and Emergency nets shall be nation-covered by the end of 2015. From 1 June 2012, the Government has waived civil protection obligations as a service form. The public concert work in the Riks Concerts was held on 1 July 2012. Some of the funds for this project have been redispatched to the funding arrangements for organisers and musicians under the Norwegian Cultural Council. In addition, parts of the funds have been redispatched to new concert forms directed by the Rikskonsertane, among others. work concerts. In 2011, the Ministry of Culture started work on a strategy for dance. With this strategy, the Ministry will strengthen the development of professional dance art in Norway 2012–2015. In order to strengthen the bet on the hall and profiling of Norwegian music abroad, the Ministry of Culture Music Norway created in July 2012. Two major cultural buildings are in use. The source Theatre and Concert Hall for Southern Sweden was opened in Kristiansand in January 2012 and Konserthus Stavanger was opened in September 2012. A major communication on culture, inclusion and participation has been submitted. There is also a big message about visual art. It is distributed in 2012 a total of 1,564.1 million. gambler crowns for sporting purposes. A big sports message has been submitted. In June 2012, the Storting adopted a government proposal to amend the Child Protection Act on the placement of children who have been exposed to trafficking in human beings. The government named a public selection that worked out about the power and participation of young people. The selection delivered its distribution on 15 December 2011. The government named a public selection that has elaborated on the biological principle of child protection. The committee delivered its opinion on 6 February 2012. In order to strengthen the child-resistance services in the most deprived municipalities, the government has earmarked resources for increasing capacity and investing in knowledge and skills. 70 new settings created in 2012. The government has submitted and adopted proposals for changes to the Cash Support Act on the liquidation of cash support for two-year-olds and the targeting and strengthening of cash support for one-year-olds. The government has presented and adopted proposals for amendments to the public protection laws on a clearer third of the parental leave period. The Government has submitted proposals for amendments to the Equality Act to clarify the rights of parental leave. The government has presented proposals for amendments to the Discrimination Law on the supervision of the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Government continues to strengthen integration measures: about 13 pst. by residents of the country have either immigrated themselves or are born in Norway with two immigrant parents. In the last population projection from the SSB, the main option shows that it will be about 1.3 million. immigrants in Norway in 2050, i.e. about 20 pst. of the population. From 1 January 2012, the Government has extended the right and obligation to Norwegian training from 300 to 600 hours to facilitate the learning of immigrants even better Norwegian and to gain knowledge of Norwegian society. From 1 January 2012, the Government introduced requirements for compulsory Norwegian training for those seeking permanent residence and Norwegian citizenship. On 1 July 2012, the government introduced a change in the civil code, which means that a few new ways of clarifying identity. This will lead to several people born in Norway, or who have come to Norway at an early age, becoming Norwegian citizens. In May 2012, the Storting passed a new law on timeshare and long-term holiday product agreements. There are new rules for child care allowances and parental pay. The legislative changes ensure that public contributions and parental payments will benefit the children and strengthen the control of the contributions to the non-municipal kindergartens. A new regulation on the framework plan for kindergarten teacher training was adopted on 4 June 2012 and entered into force on 1 July 2012. The government cooperates with the county councils to develop training models in order to improve the participation of several adults in further training. Basic skills programmes in the workplace, BKA, provide grants for courses in reading, writing, billing and ICT for workers with weak basic skills. In order to improve the situation of young people who want to learn, the Ministry of Knowledge and all employers’ and employees’ organisations wrote under their own social contract for apprenticeships with the aim of increasing the number of apprenticeships by 20 pst. from 2011 to 2015. The evaluation of the Knowledge Commitment has been a major effort to ensure a good knowledge base for the further development of the quality of Norwegian schools. Findings from the evaluation are an important starting point for the work on a new big message to be submitted to the Stortinget in 2013. The Department of Knowledge is working on the follow-up of NOU 2010:7 Mangfold and mastering. Follow-up includes, inter alia: measures to ensure a high level of introduction of new elephants in Norway. The government has as its goal the basic training that everyone should be included and experienced mastering. Work for a good learning environment and against bullying is therefore a high priority. More than 330 municipalities have now signed Manifesto against bullying and committed themselves to working against bullying locally. The government will continue its efforts to improve the quality of education and to raise the status of teachers. GNIST is a broad cooperation to recruit more people for the teaching profession, to enhance the quality of teacher training and to further develop the teaching profession. Since GNIST was created in 2008, the number of qualified applicants for teacher training has increased by 54 pst. Good access to student housing is an important element in enabling all to take on higher education. The government has supported the construction of approx. 1 000 new student housings a year. The government is busy ensuring recruitment to important community areas. The search for real science and technology is the highest in a long time. The search for teacher training and pre-school teacher training is also increasing. In order to ensure health and welfare education in line with public sector reforms, the government has provided its own key messages on this. Start-up permits for new technology construction at the University of Tromsø will contribute to the North Region bet to the government. The government is busy ensuring research that asks the basic questions and has ensured an increase in the funding for free project support, FRIPRO, of a total of 160 million. in 2011 and 2012. Through the joint commitment, universities will secure an additional 100 million. crowns for applications for project support with top characteristics in 2012. In order to ensure that researchers carrying out public missions are independent, the government has developed a new standard agreement for research and distribution work. The government wants to focus on the results of research, and a research barometer outputs to measure the pressure of the Norwegian research system. A positive trend in the number of doctoral graduates has led to a preliminary record year in 2011. It helps to meet the great need for competent researchers, but especially in the field of engineering and real science, there are still too few candidates. So far, through the national research infrastructure effort, 1 billion have been allocated. kronor for investments in 40 research infrastructures. In 2012, an additional 300 million have been released. krones. The government is calling for international orientation in all parts of the research system. The Government has worked actively to contribute to the design of the EU's future research programme, Horizon 2020. Equality is an important objective, and the government continues its efforts to promote equality between women and men at all levels of employment and in the field of research. The contracting parties did not agree on a new agricultural agreement. The State’s supply was therefore submitted to the Stortinget and agreed to it as an agricultural business for 2012. This indicates a cumulative increase in the 900-million-dollar frame. krones. The claim continues with the changes in the agricultural policy that have been made in recent years. Adjustments have been made to the leveling of revenue. Priority is given to grass-based livestock, the grain production economy and the green sector and facilitates increased investment in agriculture. A new reindeer management agreement has been negotiated, to which the Stortinget signed in June 2012. The clean-up contracts involve financial measures in the reindeer industry of 104,5 million. krones. The government has decided to set up a legislative selection to clarify how the principle of good commercial behaviour in the food sector and consumer concerns can be reflected in legislation. The government prioritises ICT as a means of interaction, and the Stortinget has adopted the law to establish national core journals. There has been a significant effort on health services in the last year, and more people are receiving treatment. The governance requirements of regional healthcare providers in terms of quality and patient safety in hospitals have been strengthened. The government has provided a big message on a holistic drug policy, and a national tobacco strategy has been put forward. On behalf of Stortingen, the President received the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, good colleagues! The last time the Storting was gathered to listen to the throne, we stood in front of a year that we knew would be special. Terrorism on the 22nd of July last year has shaped us in this room, as it has also shaped the rest of the Norwegian community. Our nation has been through a lot since the disaster hit us last summer. But as a nation, we have also grown stronger. We have gained recognition for the way in which we met an extraordinary situation – with dignity. We've seen that our state of law works. The businessman has been sentenced to death. Earlier this year, the 22nd July Commission presented its report. The report pointed to what worked, but also to many serious shortcomings in our preparedness. The size was collected exceptionally to hear the government report on the report. Now Stortinget takes on the important job that it is to learn from what did not work. The Trontals carry out a bid that the Stortinget also has many and important tasks ahead of it in the year to come. With the 157th growth coming together, Europe is characterised by high unemployment rates, a high debt burden and increasing social unrest. Norway, for its part, has more in work than ever before. We have good reason to enjoy that. According to our last figures, over two and a half million people work here in the country. They contribute as carpenters, health workers and teachers, they contribute to trade, fisheries, transport or industry – and to many other important tasks. They're the ones that keep society going. The participation of so many people in the labour market is the best basis for continuing growth and well-being in this country. Our most important task as elected representatives is to lay the foundation for everyone to remain confident that they have a job to do. The next time the Storting opens, there is a new assembly of big business representatives who meet. Some will have renewed confidence, some will have renewed confidence. Before the next census, the people have been gathered for election, and the very concept of ‘election’ underlines the fact that the people in elections are the highest political body in Norway. The people in elections are above us all. It is particularly clear in relation to the amendment of the Constitution. By its own wording that proposals submitted during this period should not be dealt with until the next period, the Constitution itself ensures that it cannot be changed against the will of the people. At the end of the 156th aggregate, a whole of 42 proposals for amendment have been submitted in the Constitution. There are proposals for human rights, linguistic renewal and a number of other changes. The Presidency will already at this stage add to its own debate on the proposals in plenary, and we will organise seminars on selected constitutional proposals in the old laying room. This is how we hope to raise awareness of constitutional proposals to be addressed in the next period, while stimulating important debates towards the 100th anniversary of women’s voting rights in 2013 and the two hundredth anniversary of the Constitution in 2014. Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! For us as large-scale representatives, we still have a quarter of the term of office. There's still time to get results for the voters we represent. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many great tasks ahead of us, we gather in the old, good desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-02.ana.ud156e586	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
