ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e72	The President is pleased to say that today we have a historic visit to the Stortinget, by the President of the House of Commons in Myanmar, Shwe Mann. This is the first time we have parliamentary visits from Myanmar, and this is the first time a delegation from the House of Commons during a foreign visit includes representatives from all opposition parties. We think it is positive, and hope it is a step in a process towards the further development of democracy in the country. We look forward to cooperation between Stortinget and the House of Commons in the future and wish the President and his delegation a fruitful stay in Norway. [[Applause from the centre]] The representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Jan Arild Ellingsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Henning Skumsvoll on 14 and 15 May to take part in the meeting, Pro Rio + 20, before the UN Conference on Sustainable Development, in Copenhagen from the Workers' Party Group on the welfare leave of the representative Tor-Arne Stroem from 14 May to 16 May from the representative of Geir Pollestad on care leave and then parental leave from 14 May to 15 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Western Agder province: Tor Sigbjørn For the Nordic counties: Knut Petter Torgersen For the Province of Rogaland: Arne Bergsvåg
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e124	Tor Sigbjørn Utsognogn, Knut Petter Torgersen and Arne Bergsvåg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e130	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose to the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Geir-Ketil Hansen are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e140	The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e143	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Sylvi Graham, Bjørn Lødemel, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I want to put forward a proposal on the obligation of activity for social assistance recipients and reinforced follow-up for social assistance recipients under the age of 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e148	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e162	As the rapporteur on the matter, I would just like to make a few brief comments. The issue is a minor legislative amendment that will oblige research institutions to report to a national database for the recording of data on scientific publication. This database is the Norwegian Science Index. The purpose of the Norwegian Science Index is to document, present and make available quality assurance data on scientific publication in a common national database. The scientific publication provides the basis for funding, and it is against this background that we, as a unanimous committee, wish to oblige research institutions to report to such a national database for the recording of data on scientific publication. That's all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e171	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e185	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e194	Let me start by thanking the Committee – not only for a good and flexible work, which has been done in part during my leave period, but also for the fact that a great deal of consensus has been reached in this case, at least on the description of reality. The issue is rather narrow, but in our welfare society, prosperity society, with wages far above the wages of the countries with which we compete, it is about making things smarter, better and more effective than the countries with which we compete. It is a prerequisite for maintaining well-being and prosperity. I assume that those who have submitted the matter, the Left Party, will explain these things in more detail. But to me, for an overall opposition, I think, and to the extent that for an overall committee, that's what this is all about. If we are going to make it, we need to recruit the best master candidates – at least some of the best master candidates – into research and recruitment positions in the research system. The Committee notes that research shows that by 2020 the Norwegian labour market will need 300-400 more completed PhDs than is currently the case. I would like to quote from the committee position: ‘The Committee considers that priority and predictability should be given to the work on securing new recruitment positions in the R & D system.’ It is therefore a unanimous committee that assumes that the level of predictability today is not high enough, either for the UH sector or for the industry to recruit these candidates. There, to some extent, ends the consensus. The opposition wants to have a concrete plan for increasing the number of research positions and recruitment positions in the research sector, while the majority believe that this is something to be done in each budget. As a representative of the Progress Party, I have to say that if we had got our own plan on this, it would have created increased predictability, both in the university and higher education sectors, and not least in industry. If we had got a concrete and binding plan on the table, everyone who was going to deal with this had to know more about how to deal with it. There's kind of the political difference today. It is agreed that there is a problem, it is agreed that there is too little predictability with regard to the recruitment of research positions, but the problem is not agreed on, and whether a plan is needed to ensure predictability. Finally, I would like to say – it almost annoys me that it has not appeared before – that today the Research Council has published an opinion that it wants to follow the European model for the allocation of the FRIPRO funds. It is that in the EU research programme, the most advanced research programme in the EU, comparable to the Norwegian FRIPRO programme, part of the funding is reserved for the youngest scholarship holders, or for younger researchers. Thus, the Research Council has made a contribution today to assess whether some of the FRIPRO funds are to be reserved for younger researchers in Norway as well. It's a shame that the recording didn't come when the committee was working on this. I still hope – despite the fact that this recording did not come when the committee was working, and before the setting was delivered to Stortinget – that this, as I feel, is a good idea, can be part of today's debate. With that, I am presenting the proposal we are co-sponsored to, and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e216	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e219	I want to thank the case spokesperson, and I want to reiterate that in spite of his leave during the time we have worked on the case, it has been surprisingly good, perhaps because it was not particularly difficult to join the intention and motivation of the proposal to submit a stepping-up plan for recruitment in the R & D system in connection with the government budget. However, if it is particularly prudent, I will come back to it. I would like to stress that the Committee is converging in the view that it is important to secure recruitment for research and development, to the needs of business today and tomorrow, and to secure the best researchers of our educational institutions. This naturally depends on retirement, increasing the need for highly skilled labour in society in general and a business life that more than ever focuses on research and research results. This is great. This should continue to contribute to high employment, low unemployment and global welfare services. This is our perspective, this is our lease. For this reason, it is also clear that there needs to be a good balance between supply and demand for scholarships in the sector. The joy is that there has now become a good balance within humanities, social sciences and medicine. The challenge is now ahead of technology and science. I'm going to think that this is going to get a lot of attention from everyone, the vast majority of the parties on the Stortinget and from the government in the work on the future budget. Realfaga is an important basic subject for the achievement of thematic and strategic objectives in research policy. Contributing to addressing global challenges within climate, environment and energy requires that we have a high level of research capacity in subjects such as physics, chemistry and geoscience. I would also like to mention that in the Education for Welfare report, there is a strong need to increase research competence in the welfare field of the vast majority of our educational institutions. My point is that there is not so much disunity about what is the goal and direction of development, and what is the challenge and challenge of today. Then there is the question of whether we need to adopt a specific plan on how many recruitment options were directly above the state budget, which is needed for the years to come. Well, it's probably possible to get there, but it'll hardly be particularly purposeful. I have noticed that the opposition in a note writes that ‘as long as the basic appropriations for the UH sector are not satisfactory, a stepping-up plan will be necessary’. [[...]] Well, I have heard better arguments for this matter than this. From the Labour Party and the Government Party's side, we would point out, for our part, that there are several factors that contribute to increasing the supply of people with doctoral education to academia, to industry and to the public sector than what comes from funding from the State budget. I think it's so important to focus on things. to increase the streamline in doctoral education, so that more complete — and in a shorter time. Here we see that after the introduction of the new PhD degree, the institutions are more good at following up the doctoral students. This will open-mindedly result in several doctoral degrees in the years to come. Another group for which any plan will not be able to take height in any good way is the scholarships funded by the Research Council. Here we can register a pen increase, from 1,300 in 2006 to a total of 1,800 in 2010. The very pleasant thing is that this is happening within the priority area. Furthermore, we can have great expectations of the newly established system of nutrition PhDs. She has not yet resulted in doctoral degrees on a special scale, but will probably also contribute in a fine way, especially in technology and science. I also find it natural in this context to mention that Norway has a solid and attractive research environment that claims to be top international. These environments represent a not insignificant recruitment of foreign researchers with doctoral degrees to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e245	It's always a good starting point when there's a consensus about the reality of the things we're discussing, and the challenges in reality. It is also great in this case, and I think it is great that it is now being lifted and a concrete plan for new recruitment positions in the R & D system is called for. Thanks to the Left who's raising the case. It's probably not a surprise for anyone in this room that Right supports it. We have repeatedly called for the government's plan for both higher education and research, and we have done so primarily because such a plan could provide better governance and clear signals to the actors in the sector – and we have called for that. The other obvious positive thing is that such a plan can better anticipate and address the challenges that arise in the labour market and in business, and the needs of the labour market. When all the projections show that we have a challenge to get enough qualified teachers, resources have to be put in place to solve it, and that has to happen in advance. When all the projections show that we are going to have a major shortage of qualified health professionals – or engineers, for that matter – we have to do the same. We've, as I said, asked for it many times. The government has not had such a plan. Nor has it wanted to respond positively to opposition enquiries about such a plan. Neither do they today, except verbally, from the pulpit. I note that the government parties agree to the extent that a plan is not an end in itself, but it is a means. But it might be wise to use such a means. Scholarships and postdocs are very central to building Norway as a future knowledge nation and what opens up to us and gives them the necessary skills, such as: will teach new coal – and we will talk about those who will help make our research environments a natural, yes, of course, part of an international research environment. This deliberately requires bets, and it doesn't come of itself. At a time when educational institutions have more than enough to carry out day-to-day follow-up of the systems within the framework of which they have, such jobs receive little attention and little opportunities. In order for universities to maintain good activity, they need to make targeted efforts. It is also important to refer to the new universities, which have a different funding from those established, which have just pointed to the possibility of obtaining scholarships as a way of raising their research environment, a way of lifting up and approaching the other environments and a way of building skills and being part of the strong research environment. It has been absent when there has been a lack of commitment to it. After all, research is central to development and innovation in order to secure a position and not least to ensure work and well-being in the future. Then I register that Tor Bremer immediately connects this to the state budget and increased appropriations. Something will probably lie there, but something will also lie in controlling what is already going on, to the areas where you need it. I have to say that after Kristin Halvorsen took over responsibility as the State Council also for higher education, there have been positive signals in several debates that one should look at things, go through things, grab things – and that is very, very good. I had hoped that this too was one thing that the Council of State would grasp to see how we can create a plan that gives predictability, which gives the institutions, the research institutes, a direction in where they will deploy the resources – how we will work together in the future to address the needs that are coming. I am concerned that we do not get that connection today, but we intend to follow up on it, and we will see when we can meet in a common yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e268	As indicated in the vote, it is an overall committee which recognises the need to ensure the recruitment of research and development. This is also the basis for the work of this government and is set out as an objective in the Government Declaration. Through both current research reports and annual budgets, the government has facilitated new recruitment through scholarship positions, both directly above the State budget and through the Research Council. We are now harvesting this from: 2011 was a record year for completed doctoral degrees in Norway; in 2010 1,148 dissertations were carried out in Norway, almost 500 more than 10 years ago. Research and the use of new knowledge give impetus to change. Today’s research provides the opportunity to find answers to tomorrow’s challenges. Increasingly high skills requirements for the production of goods and services in Norway, combined with the international competitive situation, mean an increased need for knowledge from research and development. This is why there is already – and it will be – a stronger need for more people with doctoral degrees and research education in both industry, services, health and well-being, and to a certain extent public administration. Traditionally, doctoral education has been aimed at educating people into positions at universities and colleges and in the institute sector. In recent decades, however, there has been an explicit objective of increasing R & D efforts in Norway, both in real activity and as a share of GDP. An explicit objective is to increase R & D work in industry. This has proved to be demanding. This is probably due to a lack of tradition of focusing on research in different enterprises, but also the industrial structure in Norway, with a high proportion of small and medium-sized enterprises, makes it extra challenging. Recruitment of new researchers in addition to keeping track of departure and mobility among researchers is important for several reasons. NOKUT’s evaluations of several professional training courses show a great need to develop the professional environment. It is important to increase the level of research at our universities and colleges, but it is also essential to increase the quality of the education given to the students. In other words, there is a need for research-based professional development. The aim is high quality and relevance in education and a stronger research-based basis for the practice of individual professionals. It is then necessary to ensure that recruitment takes care of these needs. Business innovation depends on strengthening research in several disciplines. The first candidates who have taken their doctoral degree through the novel food doctorate are now graduates. Through the Research Council's programme, these candidates are given a unique opportunity to take a doctorate while working in a company. In this way, a direct link is created between new research and daily challenges and impacts in the enterprise. The scheme facilitates the development of research skills in-house in collaboration with academic institutions. The interest in investing in research is growing when the company sees the direct effect of the issues that the candidate is working on. For enterprises operating with small margins, this provides the opportunity to obtain internal research competence with close immediate relevance and commercial value. The challenge is not only to set up enough scholarship positions and get the candidates to a doctorate, but who should benefit from this competence. As I have already mentioned, there is a great need for research and expertise both in the health sector and in school. But how many municipalities are currently actively looking for people with doctoral degrees? Both public administration and business must be observant and vigilant in how this competence can contribute to the development and enhancement of the quality of the business. The scheme with nutrition doctor. also responds to the challenge of the employee already being linked to the enterprise. Perhaps such schemes should also be used in the public sector? There is no doubt the need for more people with a doctorate in the future. New recruitment positions are an important element. Appropriations for research into the State budget are therefore an essential factor. A real growth in research appropriations of 27 p.m. under this government is an expression that the government sees the need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e296	In Norway today, there is a tendency to refer to groups of people as waves of problems. We're talking about getting an older wave, and we're talking about getting a student wave. For me as liberals, it's talking about people who wave of problems not a good approach. I think it's a great opportunity that we have a lot of young people who are going to want to get more knowledge in the future. It must be a great opportunity for a nation to know that there are a lot of young people who are going to be in line to increase their level of knowledge. There should be an opportunity that we should seize with great joy, and say that seafaringly you should get it. Politics means I'm preparing for the future. It's not just dealing with today's problems, but it's making a society equipped to meet future challenges. That is why the Left has put forward the proposed document 8. Having good plans for getting recruitment positions across the R & D system is the key to meeting the requirement of knowledge that young people will join in the future. There we have great challenges. Now it's possible I sound like an old lady, but I've been sitting in this committee for a long time. I remember, among other things: when Kristin Clement presented his research messages and his recruitment plans. Everyone agreed that everything was very good, but SV scolded and melted from this pulpit that you didn't have a good enough plan to recruit more people into R & D. That was Rolf Reikvam's big cling to that whole message. Now we have significantly lower ambitions in this area, and I agree with Rolf Reikvam that this is very important to meet future challenges. The report Supply and demand for higher-educated labour by 2020 identifies the need for between 340 and 400 new recruitment posts each year by 2020. The greatest need is in technology and real science. We have a pretty good balance in terms of humanities, social sciences and medicine, sail if we see that those subjects will have challenges in the future as well. However, the majority claim in this case that a recruitment plan itself does not recruit any more posts. I agree with that, but as long as the cutting-off of research continues and basic funding does not increase, we must actually have a plan that ensures both funding, investment and willingness to achieve goals. Because there has been a decline in doctoral contracts in recent years, according to NSD. In the field of humanities, agreements have declined from 121 in 2007 to 99 in 2011. In the field of technology, the fall is even more dramatic, from 237 in 2007 to 171 in 2011. It is also necessary to strengthen nutrition sciences in cooperation with industry. As others have said here, there are differences in levels of wages in the private and public sectors that mean that recruitment to these subjects is hampered if we don't also get to commercial PhDs. It seems in the letter of reply from the Council of State that she is trying to shift responsibility for recruitment to the research community. I don't think that's going on when the appropriations in the whole UH sector have been kept quiet, which means we can't get an increase. We're actually getting to a decline. That's why we believe that a stepping-up plan is important to ensure the entire development of knowledge in academia, in business and in society, and to meet the challenges we have of the many young people we see wanting knowledge, actually being met with knowledge, actually being met with that we've prepared for them to want knowledge, and making sure that we have well enough qualified people to lecture, to teach them, and to research further to create what we're going to live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e313	Fortunately, there has been a bit of each in this sector since 2005. I'm not going to say that the representative Skei Grande sounded like an older lady like the mire, but let's just enjoy that it happened a little at this time, because Rolf Requam was absolutely right – and it probably had Trine Skei Grande at that time too. We are in a positive trend in recruiting for research positions. What this debate ultimately really concerns is how detailed we are to be vis-à-vis the research institutions. There, I believe there are so many positive trends and trends that we should have a balanced approach, not a detailed approach to the extent that this proposal involves. We have reached a historically high number of doctoral degrees in 2011. However, we can expect further increase next year: the Research Council is currently funding 500 more scholarship positions than for a few years ago, jobs that have not yet resulted in doctoral degrees. These posts contribute, inter alia, to: knowledge and capacity building in priority areas of society, such as climate and energy. From 2012 onwards, the Närings-Ph.d. will provide several doctoral degrees, especially in the field of technology. We could just read the news on the Research Council's website about the first graduates of nutrition PhDs. There were 115 active projects last year, an increase of 50 from the previous year. In March 2012, for the first time, we received good data from the Database for statistics on right-wing education on the proportion of doctoral students who complete within six years of taking up the programme. The figures show that at all four major universities, only approx. two thirds of the 2005 coal by 2011. The completion is thus far below the objective of the research report on approx. 80 pst. Within six years, all disciplines as a whole – an objective to which the Stortingeen agreed in the treatment of the Climate for Research. 85 pst. of those taking a doctorate in Norway, dissociates at one of the four major universities. There is still room for improvement here and we can expect it to come. The Ministry of Knowledge's impression is that the doctoral students are being followed more closely than just a few years ago, and that more will therefore complete the education, and more will complete it more quickly. NIFU will present a new study of the throughput in doctoral education to the autumn, such as: will analyse the efforts of institutions to improve completion. The number of scholarship holders shows that research recruitment is a high priority of universities and colleges. So we can confidently trust that they share our views on priority. In the allocation to the UH institutions, funds are available for 2,900 scholarship positions from the 2000s. In 2011, institutions financed more than 300 additional posts. For a few years ago, they had too few scholarship holders added. In a few years' time, the institutions' own efforts will also give us even more doctoral degrees. Everything is thus in place for the number of doctoral degrees to continue to rise in the coming years, even with the number of scholarship positions we have today. The number of doctoral degrees awarded per million population is a recognised indicator of the extent of doctoral education in different countries. Throughout the 2000s, Sweden and Finland have been at the global peak of this indicator, with about 300 doctoral degrees per million inhabitants in 2009. From a long way behind ten years ago, Norway and Denmark are now approaching the level of doctoral education in Sweden and Finland. In Sweden, in fact, the number of new doctoral degrees has been declining over several years and in 2011 was over 300 lower than in the top year 2008. There is a basis for saying that Norway is among the countries in the world that have invested most in doctoral education, not least in the last decade. The extent is now far above what it is, for example. in the United States, taking into account the size of the population. I agree with the opinion of the majority of the Committee on the proposal of the representatives of Tenden and Skei Grande: a binding recruitment plan is not an objective in itself. At the same time, I am familiar with the content of the report Demand for and Offer of Scholarships in Norway towards 2020, and will state that we have a challenge in increasing the number of doctors in mathematical science and technology. However, as I have tried to show here, many factors contribute to the continued increase in the number of doctoral degrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e328	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e331	As a historian, I should have been pleased with these constant references to the old days etc. But it is also the case that the need has increased since 2005. We should be happy about that. This means that Norwegian employment is becoming more knowledge-intensive. It's really nice. It is not the investigation department of the Left or the Advance Party that has come up with this. On the other hand, it is a committee set up by the Ministry of Knowledge and the Council of Universities and Higher Education. Then I'm probably more concerned – and I feel that the Council of State is also – than the proposers for the technology and real science. But that's what I'm going to come back to later in a three-minute post. These include: so that there are very few who complete doctoral degrees in real science and technology in Norway, and there are very, very few Nordics among them, which I believe indicates that you should need a plan. But then I come back to what I started with in my post: Will the Council consider reserving some of the FRIPRO funds for younger researchers in later budgetary processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e341	I think it's an interesting proposal that we can take with us when we're going to discuss a new research report, and we're going to present it to the Stortinget at the beginning of next year. Some of the issues involved in recruiting young researchers, perhaps also stimulating a little more bold research — it may not always be related — may be issues to include them in that discussion. So that's a suggestion I'd like to look at. What is at the heart of this area is that it does a lot both in terms of the recruitment we already have in terms of scholarship positions, and in terms of the institutions' own priorities, which indicate that we will receive more doctoral degrees in the future. Then I'm a little reluctant to fine-tune the institutions, when I see that we're moving in the same direction. We also need action spaces, because there are many more things that play in relation to what kind of quality we're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e348	We've got a lot of exciting figures about the past. The biggest challenge in this field lies in the future, and the Council of State is a member of a college that provides budgets and works on how to use resources. What criteria are used when working on this field which forms the basis for the allocation of funds, resources and letters of allocation, and which of the criteria are so difficult that they cannot be incorporated into a plan to which the government can relate? This is not necessarily about the detailed management of the sector or budgetary resources, but about the plan of the government itself for development in this field. It would have been exciting to hear a little about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e353	As I understand the proposal, it's about creating an obliging escalation plan for new recruitment positions, but we know that there are a lot of relationships that play in terms of how many new doctoral degrees we actually get. We have a challenge in many places when it comes to throughflowing, and I'm very concerned about it. We now also have new data at individual level for the whole education sector that can provide us with some indicators of how to work more systematically in relation to throughput. So it will not be caught up in this proposal. So we know that both working conditions, how modern equipment we have, and whether we have time buildings, etc., will also affect how many doctoral degrees we get, and how attractive the entire sector appears. That's why it's important that we look at the overall priorities in the context and not just pick out the one that's about recruitment. It'll be the balance here, how we can accomplish in all of these areas, which ultimately decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e360	That's kind of weird. I'm in a social liberal tradition. That means that I think you need to have a certain balance between how much you control and how much you release in the economy and in all areas. I'm not a fancier to universities, but I'm very opposed to abdicating as the management of a country. That's why it's very strange to experience that I'm on the other side when there's an SV State Council that's occupied by having pure laissez faire in the whole area. Then I come with a very sincere, truly sincere warning, when the Council of State has now taken over the scripts from Tora Aasland. It's not always that the reality in the department and the reality out there seems to be the same, and you don't always have to accept the definition of the department. When you have the report that the Council of State also referred to, which showed that we have a dramatic lag, and we all have the numbers from NSD, which I referred to, on the number of doctorates that go down, isn't the Council of State worried about it at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e367	Fortunately, I have very competent people who give me good advice on how to solve the questions of recruiting and getting more doctoral degrees in the future, and I also have good contact with the sector. It is not to abdidate to note that the developments we have had in recent years indicate that this is a great deal of attention elsewhere. We've reached far, we've got a lot, and the institutions give priority to scholarships beyond what we and the Research Council do, so here we have a sector that goes in the same direction. So I'll never step back if I see that an action plan is needed in any area. We can create two-year plans and five-year plans and control the details up and down if necessary, but I believe that it is so well documented that we are on the right track. This is a priority, and there are more reasons than recruitment plans we need to take to ensure more doctoral degrees in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e374	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e379	A little clarification: The representative Trine Skei Grande claimed that it was possible that she sounded like an old lady. No, unfortunately the representative didn't. I believe that old wise ladies had refused to resort to a mediocre rhetorical point of one – was it – skating from 2005 or something like that – a sport that nobody cares about today. For my part, I would like to show that the promises for research and development in the period 2005-2011 have had an increase of more than 4.5 billion. kr per year in real growth – this is by price and index regulation. The permissions for this purpose have thus grown to 27 pst. during this period. I want to say that no other area has had such a formidable growth that research has just been given in this period. We are proud of that, and I also believe that Research Norway has benefited greatly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e386	I had intended to pay attention to one post, but I noticed that I was not completely calmed down. I'm a little uncertain which parts of the majority's position the Council of State agrees with. The majority – and a unanimous committee – say that there is a need for increased predictability in terms of recruitment to research positions in the UH sector, the university and higher education sectors, and in other sectors. One thing we haven't discussed today is for example. the possibility of including the free institutions in the nutrition Ph.D. scheme. There would be one possibility. The council says there's a lot going on. It's probably a bit like in the fight against bullying: it's probably doing a lot, and some of it's probably right too, but the development is not satisfactory. We should be pleased about that, because it is due to the fact that Norwegian working life has become a matter of competence. We should be happy about that, because it probably also means that working life is more effective. It is clear that this is the responsibility of the Council of State, but not to impose all responsibility on the Council of State, but to give the Council of State an opportunity room, a further input on the road: the economy itself can certainly also contribute more, both in terms of seeking this kind of competence, and in terms of contributing even to the nutrition doctoral system, to the training of this kind of competence. The Närings-Ph.d. system is good, although it is not large enough, but business is also not good enough to take advantage of it. Here we come back to the most important thing: this country's well-being and prosperity are carried on the back of technology and real-time competence. When we see that recruitment of new realists and technologists at PhD level is not satisfactory, it is a challenge for future value creation in Norway. I am very pleased that Norwegian educational institutions are attractive to candidates from around the world – Asia, China, Africa, etc. – but once we get there that we are dependent on that competence immigration, I believe it is a long-term challenge. We know that many of them remain in Norway, but there is a great job to do in making this kind of education more attractive to Norwegian master candidates. In sum, with regard to the challenges of technology and real science, the role of business, the role of the Storting and the role of the government and the UH sector, I believe that the proposers are absolutely right, and that is why we support the proposal. We had to get a slightly more comprehensive approach to this, and I hope the government will come back to this when the research message is presented around Christmastime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e401	I'm a little unsure whether the representative Bremer defined me as an old and stupid lady, or whether he defined me as a non-old lady, but I don't think any of them were a compliment, to be completely honest. If you have numbers, you can prove anything, you're going to be told. But there are some cold facts about what this government has had of action rooms: When we left the government, the state budget was 650 billion. kr. Now it passed 1,000 billion. kr. If you take all the credit for rising prices, raising wages and any other rise in the world you could imagine, it's at least 250 billion. kr more this government can use for good purpose now, than we could when we were in government. Of the 250 billion. Dr, which was to be used to build the future — on school, knowledge, research and all we're going to live on in the future — has been spent most of the time on not getting angry when you're presenting a government budget. You've been lubricating all over the world, and you haven't been betting on what's the future. So yes – the government has had a lot more money than the rest of us, but we do not see it again in the priorities that are about future action. We have disagreed with that, and there we have shown differences in the state budget. Therefore, there are differences in priorities: whether you want to prioritize this, or whether you don't want to prioritize it. This is clearly seen in the alternative state budget, and we can be absolutely honest about that. We have different priorities because we are different political parties. For the left hand side, this is some of the cores of what you're going to do. When we look at how we've built a society from being one of Europe's poorest states to now – what was the most important thing? It wasn't the oil. No, it was that all the children got to school and learned things that must have seemed completely useless to them in their everyday lives. Today, we are discussing education and what is useful for students to learn today. Think of children 100 years ago, who were going to sit on the left-school crack for the first time and learn things they would never use in the professional life they were supposed to have, but which was an important part of the creation, of welfare building and of the balancing of differences between people. That's what it was about. That is why these fights are really important. That's why it's weird to fight against a government that says everything's going well, sail if we see that if we prescribe things, on doctoral agreements, and if we see what future will require of us in this field of knowledge, you won't meet it. They say things are going so well, and we shouldn't overrule the institutions. Of course, we're not going to override the institutions, but we're going to have ambitions on behalf of the future. That's what this is about: having ambitions that we're actually going to be able to create the knowledge we're going to live on in the future, and that's what we're actually going to do in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e414	Several have not asked for the word – it is possible that the Council of State will, but she has not asked for the word. Then the Council of State, Kristin Halvorsen, has asked for the floor. On an appropriate occasion, the Council of State will be introduced into the technological challenge of asking for the floor in the main hall. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e419	I'm an old trotter in Stortinget, and in the old days – since that's what we've been through several times – keeping my hand a little in the weather, but I realize it's new times. I'll make sure the technology works. I very much welcome the description of the priorities that have been made from 2005 to today. Research and higher education is one of the areas that have grown more than the real growth in the budget; it is quite right, as the representative of Bremer has been in. It's been a priority area. It is of course that the opposition can claim the opposite morning, dinner and evening, but that is not what is true. Research and higher education have been given priority over what has been the real growth in the budget. In addition, in many other areas, we also have priority knowledge and education. It's one of the most important areas, because when we look at everything that's given priority in this area, from kindergarten to higher education, it's been a huge leap in investment in knowledge. I fully agree with the representative Skei Grande that there is no oil we live on in this country – there is 10 pst., perhaps less than 10 pst. of our national wealth. 80 pst. of our national wealth are people who can use their labour force to help build the country small and large. Then we have to have knowledge and competence, we have to prevent people from becoming disqualified at an early age, and we have to make sure that we have access to the knowledge we need at all times. It is important for people to feel that they are needed in society and that society should make the best use of the labour force. It's a general perspective on everything we're doing. A little bit more honesty in that description I think maybe had the opposition too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e431	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e434	I don't like to be called unreasonable. So I had to say something. All of the numbers I said are right, and they're pretty big macro numbers. The question is not whether it has been a real growth or not, the question is whether the real growth meets the challenges of the future, and I disagree with that. For this reason, the Left has provided alternative budgets every year, where basic appropriations for research and higher education have increased, and where schools have been given the highest priority, because we are going to meet future challenges. We're not just going to be able to show a graph today that things are going in the right direction – but are we going in the right direction enough? Are we far enough compared to what we know we're meeting? Do we have enough research positions to meet future hunger for knowledge, which we know young people are going to have? That's what's interesting to me as a politician at Stortinget. My goal is not that no one should go around and be mad when a government budget is presented. My goal is to be able to meet future challenges. Do we have enough to meet it? I believe we do not have it, therefore we have promoted this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e443	This, I think, is a very happy progress. For now, we have gone from discussing whether the opposition claims that the government has cut research and higher education, to discussing whether the real growth – which has thus been larger than the overall real growth in the budget – has been large enough beyond what is otherwise the growth. It's a great success. I, and many with me, are always going to have great ambitions in this area, which we believe is absolutely vital, and then it has to be weighed against other considerations. So I must say it's a happy day!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e450	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 – to confirm if necessary!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e464	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e473	The representative Borghild Tenden from the Left has made a proposal on the establishment of a qualification support scheme for research institutes seeking state basic funding. The proposal undoubtedly addresses a very relevant issue, and as the case-in-law rapporteur, I would like to commend the representative for putting this on the agenda. There is an overall committee that sees the importance of the institute sector for the Norwegian research system and is currently providing high-quality research. In particular, the institutes contribute to necessary and good research in business and society. It is essential that we have good and predictable funding mechanisms for research. An overall committee considers that the current financing of the sector is historically conditional and that the evaluation of the funding system requires consideration of several objective criteria that can provide a fairer funding system. As I said, this is an important issue that the representative Tenden addresses in his proposal. Good financing conditions for the sector are fundamental, but the majority point out in this case that the funding system is being evaluated for the current year and that the new research Communication will be addressed in 2013. I would simply like to end by recommending the Committee's position, which says that the representative proposal by Borghild Tenden, on the establishment of a system of qualification support for the research institutes seeking state basic funding, is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e488	We all know about the 3pst. goal for a total research effort. We also know that the institute sector has to play an important role in achieving this goal. We also hear in this context that Norwegian business is researching far too little. My claim is that Norwegian industry is researching a lot, much more than what we can read about in the SSB's statistics. It is very often that a customer comes to business with a challenge. None of the parties are asking, or checking, if there has been any research on this matter in the past. No, they fold up their shirts and solve the problem. When she's solved, they hit their chests and are very happy with the job they've done, and are ready for the next challenge. No one thought that this was research that should have been registered on a form for such work, and among other things. in the statistics of the SSB. Consider whether it would have been automatic for the institute sector to connect – examine whether this had been researched in the past, so that one could avoid duplication of work, get a split between customers, businesses and researchers, and make research more accessible to customers and businesses. I am reasonably sure that such a splinter layer would make it even more interesting for all parties. The business community wanted to do more research, and I believe that the 2 pst. goal for business would be within range. The total research effort would increase monthly, and business would be given a completely different research status. I also think it would be much more exciting for the researchers to research and write publications about something that was a reality, versus a report that ends up in a desk drawer. I understand those who are now keen to set up a system in which the well-established research institute can seek financial support to qualify for basic government funding. But I don't understand that this needs to be done right now, when a company is evaluating the scheme that we have now had in the last three years. The evaluation should be completed by autumn 2012 and followed up by the next research report, which will be submitted to the Spring 2013 Stortinget. The Government takes the view that any changes in the funding system, participation requirements and the institution that should be covered should be knowledge-based and included in a common research policy. Good professional environments that can provide high-quality nutrition research throughout the country are important for the government. To get this to me, I think that these disciplines and institutions should be of a certain size. The structure should be looked at, and cooperation, pooling between institutes, universities and universities should be reviewed. One should tear down fences and cooperate much more than we experience today. The new research message has to provide some space for this. Then the research effort will soon be where the goal is today, i.e. 3 pst. GDP.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e509	I am pleased that there is such a consensus that the institutional sector plays an important role. It does so regardless of whether we are discussing Norwegian participation in EU projects, the business community in Norway or society, i.e. the hospital sector and other parts of public activities. Not least – as the representative Gülsheth discussed how to achieve the 3 p.m. target – the institute sector has a dynamic that enables it to turn around faster than the other large, heavy research institutions in Norway. I want to warn against one thing – it is precisely the dynamics here that are important, and now this debate would be about the possibility of getting into the scheme. But I would therefore like to warn you when the representative, Mr Glosseth, wants to discuss mergers with the university and higher education sectors. Then we know that one gets into a system that is not known to be dynamic, is not known to be able to turn around and is not very well known to cooperate with business – at least not in large parts of the country. Although the academy in Gülsheth's home region is probably somewhat different to business than the academy in the rest of the country is, I'll warn you about it. Institutions have a value in themselves, and to the extent that mergers are to be discussed, there must be between the free institutions and not between the institutions and the higher education sector. But then it is that within this scheme – for now we are discussing above all those who are outside the scheme – it is also a happy root. There's someone who has 5 pst. basic funding, with various denominations, while other institutions have up to 70 pst. of the financing directly following a decision of the Stortinget. So this is based on something so funny and little political as historical results, historical appropriations. This is not politics; this is the absence of politics. The institutions within the arrangement will be included in many processes and have many possibilities that those outside the arrangement will not have. It is therefore important to make the scheme more dynamic and to allow the research institutes that deliver good results to have the opportunity to enter the scheme and receive basic funding. And then I think you have to think about whether it's reasonable for the institutions to have 70 pst. basic funding shall compete with institutions with 5 pst. basic financing. The party of progress stands alone on a note that I have to explain. We believe that when business and, to the extent of working life, a publicly funded part of Norwegian working life – e.g. the health sector — assessing the quality of research carried out by the institutes, as appropriate, should in itself be one quality indicator that should count when assessing which institutes are to receive support from the State budget. I found reason to comment on Mr. Glüseth's contributions, but I fully agree with him: the Norwegian institute sector is very important for an increasingly competent Norwegian business. And as I also said earlier today, we should be happy about that, because it is a sign that Norwegian business is able to compete with other countries because we are more competent than the others. But it is not that the institutes we at Stortinget – and the Stortinget, of course, have more or less all the power in this country – were good business institutes 25-30 years ago, necessarily the same as moving Norwegian working life, Norwegian business and Norwegian public sector into the future. There may well be someone out there who was on the Storting 30 years ago, who was not aware of it. I'll believe it, and I think that's why it's important that we get more dynamics. Now I am promoting the proposal – and then we know enough that it will probably not be adopted today. But I hope that we can use this debate as an input to the research communication, and that we can have a debate on how we can jointly, with the widest possible majority in this Chamber, make the institute sector more equitable and dynamic, more forward-looking funding than we have today. Then I hope you realize that I took up the proposal contained in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e528	The President then realized that the proposal contained on page 2 of the vote was included.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e531	First, it should not be easy to call yourself a research institute. It's going to be hard, it's going to be staunch, and you're going to have strong ambitions on behalf of those who have the title. Making it easy to get basic support, etc. is not the current policy of the Left; we believe that this is something the Institutes should really reach out for. But we think it should be easier to get the opportunity to prove what you're good at, and have objective criteria that you get to compete with others. In the same way that we believe that there should have been good arrangements to qualify for EU support and international programmes, it should also be easier to lower the threshold in order to obtain the support that allows you to qualify to also call yourself a research institute. There are many reasons why we should have had a much greater interaction between business and society, and the research institutions that work much closer in society and in business should have been important engines and part of the whole system in a completely different way than they are today. I think these are some of the keys that we don't have as much business research in Norway as we do in many other places. The fact that industry buys the research should be a quality indicator in itself. If it is an attractive research environment, if industry wants to develop in that field, and acquires knowledge from it, it is a qualification in itself, because it is clear that the business community, which is competitive, does not go to those institutions that cannot provide them with a well-qualified research basis for the development of their products. So I have to admit that I'm a little disappointed that the Right is not part of this proposal, but just talking about aggregation. I believe that bundling is important to get to heavy, good professional environments, but the spread of power in research and knowledge is also an important point. It's important to have counterpower. That you can have different professional environments that can also challenge each other is also an important part of this. So it's not like if you combine everything, it's going to be more ingenious. No, sometimes it is important to have counter-environments that can also help to develop professional environments in a completely different way. The government has put in place a freeze on support for research institutions and will not include any more. I think that is closing the door to new research, to new disciplines and to the development of the sector. I hope that what the Council of State says is a development in this area. But being able to crack this nut is one of the major challenges that a research report should address, and I hope the Council of State says she's got a lot of good ideas after today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e544	I do well to read the opinion of the Committee in this area as if this is a discussion that the Committee wants to take, but that one wants to wait on the basis that we get, through the investigations we have ordered, so that this becomes a topic in the new research communication. I think that's a good approach, because we need a good basis to evaluate this, and we need to take that discussion really. So I've listened with interest to the debate so far and believe that we are now in the phase where we can just take that discussion, and then you can conclude when we get to the new year next time. The question of how to ensure good quality and that research institutions should seek cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration – what is called SAC policy – has been important, because we have had challenges in balancing how to ensure good quality in the research that is being carried out without spreading funds too thinly. The government shares the problem understanding that has been revealed, but we announced in St.meld. No 30 for 2008-2009, Climate for Research, that we should not follow up the policy recommendations of the Stjernø Committee as proposed, but rather facilitate more voluntary reforms and processes, where professional environments and institutional leaders have seen opportunities and benefits that lie in closer cooperation. Let me stress that the research institutes have a central place in the Norwegian research and innovation system. A common denominator for the institutes is that they carry out R & D on a non-commercial basis, while at the same time they do not sort directly under an apprenticeship. In addition, the institutional sector is highly heterogeneous in terms of professional arrangements, R & D intensity and scope. This must also be seen in the light of the fact that the institutes serve many different markets and are competitive in international arenas, such as the EU Framework Programmes for Research. Access to good professional environments that can deliver applied high-quality research across the country is important for the government. The institutional sector in Norway is currently composed of relatively many, and in some areas small, units. High quality and relevance of R & D work suggests that the professional environments and institutions should have a certain size. Exploiting economies of scale related to research infrastructure, administrative capacity and competence in project management and follow-up can be crucial in building up research institutions that are professionally competitive. The institution sector carried out research for over 10 billion. kr in 2009. There is about a quarter of all research carried out in Norway. Thus, the sector is a significant supplier of — primarily — applied research and works closely on its public and private sector sponsors. Thus, institutions are central contributors to value creation and welfare development. When the market is addressed to a research institute, it shall be certain that the services provided are of high quality. In order to contribute to this, basic government funding will be provided for the long-term build-up of competence in the Institute. It is this quality of research that distinguishes the institutions from the ordinary market for consultants. The current basic allocation scheme for the institutions is regulated by the guidelines laid down by kgl. Resolution of 19 December 2008. The guidelines are a follow-up to St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, by the Ministry of Knowledge, which established the principles of the funding system. That arrangement has been subsequently explained. We're going through this now because it's been a prerequisite for the plan to be evaluated after it's been working for three years. We will complete that evaluation in the autumn of 2012, and it will provide a knowledge base for the next research report that we intend to present to the Stortinget in 2013. This means that any changes to the funding system, including criteria for participation and the institutions covered, shall be knowledge-based and integrated into a comprehensive research policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e566	I'll try to be a little dynamic and constructive. The councils talked about size, and size is important. But she also talked about this by being close. It is clear that Norwegian business, especially along the coast, is located in small and medium-sized clusters and creates enormous values. But they're not all in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, so with size and density, it's not always as easy to combine. So until the dynamic issue – the Council of State also talked about spreading the allocation for thin, I agree, it should not be done: but is it the case that the Council of State is sure that the very institutions that are in the system today are the right ones, are those who are going to lift Norway forward and into the new era – in relation to the climate and other challenges that the Council of State is dealing with? Or is it that the Council of State can imagine that there is someone outside the scheme that the Storting and the Government have not thought of before, which should perhaps be included in the scheme in any way in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e573	There is no other answer to that question than that of course. However, it is important to assess and manage these considerations — and balances — against each other. The representative Lien is quite right that cooperation between a local business community and a research institute can depend on good contacts and closeness. But in modern times it's not that you can't cooperate with someone who's a little further away. In any case, the balance between availability and high professional level will be important. So, of course, this might evolve, that we have to be open that there might be other criteria for the future to decide if you're part of this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e581	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e584	Let me just briefly say that we, who took part in the debate on institution financing in the last growing-up period, were very conscious when we already wrote at the time that the scheme was to be evaluated after working for three years. Significant progress was made, in my view, in the last period, towards a more transparent, more objective funding of the institution sector than that which had gone ahead. But I guess it's no surprise that not all of us felt that we came all the way into port. In this way, I think there are many good posts in the room today that can go into the work to be done with the research report. I am also pleased that there is broad support for the importance of this sector. It accounts for a quarter of all the research we do in this country, and is one of the most dynamic things we have. We have challenges – some of them are pointed to today. This applies to the equal treatment of sectors while at the same time being able to give priority. Competition between institutions in different sectors with different degrees of basic funding is also such a challenge. This is all reason to look further into the work to be done with the research communication. Finally, I must say that today's debate has been uplifting in view of the work that will be done on this matter, here and in the government, in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e595	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e611	During this six-month period, all ten independent evaluations of the Knowledge promise will be ready. They will form the basis for a major message from the Ministry of Knowledge, which will evaluate the Knowledge promise. The State Council of Halvorsen announced at an NHO conference on 12 January that the notification will be important for secondary education in general and for vocational and vocational training in particular. One of the points that was notified was also that one should look on the way further in the case of a professional letter. I have also noted the commitment of the Council of State to the implementation of the vocational training courses and her commitment to raising the status of the professions in society. It would therefore be interesting to discuss, in this context, the proposal that ‘completed secondary education should make students generally prepared for study independently of education programmes’. This has been proposed several times, but recently it has been proposed by the Quality Committee, which was chaired by Astrid Sögnen, and further proposed by Rolf Jørn Karlsen and the Nou Trade Training for the future. The majority of the SYC considered that the completion of secondary education generally prepares students for study regardless of their educational programme. The 2003 Committee considered that initial training was significantly enhanced by a strong emphasis on basic competence, and that the requirements for basic competence both represented a professional range and had such a degree of professional immersion that a well-developed basic competence, coupled with professional competence, would meet the requirements of the individual in the study situation. Furthermore, the sample argued that the trend, nationally and internationally, was that boundaries between education and education levels are being reduced — for example, that real competences have gradually become a principle used for admission to further studies. The committee also stressed that the quality reform resulted in a better follow-up of higher education students and that the learning environments to be reinforced. As the majority of the sample concluded at the time, I believe it is important, and right, that students who have the capacity to do so are given the opportunity to take courses or parts of courses in higher education. Following the proposal of the Quality Committee, the requirement for general study preparation was not followed up. In St.meld No. 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for Learning, the Ministry justified this by the fact that ‘a quality improvement in initial training that was used by the Quality Committee will only be a reality after the reform has been implemented and implemented’. It has received it today, and it had also received it when the Karlsen Committee took up the proposal again a few years later. Reading and writing training from 1st class has been introduced from the autumn of 2006. From the autumn of 2008, the number of hours spent in primary schools has also increased by a total of five hours per week, ranging from 1 to 4. steps. The five hours are now divided into two hours of Norwegian, two hours of mathematics and an hour of English. The Karlsen Committee was behind the Quality Committee's assessments, and I believe that today we might have even greater reason to do so. The Karlsen Committee also wrote that they assumed that those young people who wanted to take higher education would both be motivated for study and have the prerequisites for it. I believe that those who have had a job and who consider going back to studies understand that it is a serious decision they make – perhaps more serious than just continuing from an advanced course into studies. The Karlsen Committee also argued that in today’s society there is not necessarily a link between formal competence and real competence. This last argument follows the conclusion of the Quality Committee that national and international trends are moving towards more use of real competence assessment and reduction of educational barriers. This is also expressed in particular in the European Qualifications Framework (EQF) and in our own national Qualifications Framework (NKR). Where qualifications have been compared in the past by using inputs such as the length of education, the curriculum and the educational institution, the EQF is a qualification system based on results. The EQF is based on expected learning outcomes in terms of knowledge, skills and general competence. The Ministry of Knowledge websites read that the EQF is ‘a description of what can be expected to be known, capable and capable of doing by all persons at the level of qualification concerned’. In the Norwegian system NKR, vocational and preparatory subjects are both placed at the same level – level 4. The explanation correctly states: ‘Norwegian secondary education is clearly structured in preparatory and vocational education programmes. The Ministry has therefore designed separate learning outcomes descriptions for study preparation and professional qualifications.» However, they are still at the same level and are to be translated at the same level into the European system. Not all countries have placed their skilled workers at this level. In Norway, we have. In order to extract some of the overall descriptions in the NKR, the complexity of the tasks that can be performed at this level, e.g.: with a view to assessing and applying knowledge, how complex can cooperation situations be involved, to what extent can knowledge be put into context, and to what extent can one take responsibility for one's own learning and further development of competence? I mean, there's an old-fashioned conservatism about who's fit for higher education. Public, or study preparatory, as we call it now, is no longer a reflection of the academic world. The composition and form of work have changed, and many are already entering higher education through other pathways, such as real competence and the Y-way. Those who have chosen to go the Y-way to become engineers have managed just as well as those who come in on the basis of general study competence. The experience they have with professional letters is valuable in their professional life, and the feedback from the labour market is precisely that they are often the best – they have both practical and theoretical backgrounds. Norwegian working life and Norwegian education are served that we get a mix of people with different backgrounds. When the Karlsen Committee proposed a general study preparation, both the representatives of the LOs and the NHO were behind that proposal. Some of the background was that the sample considered that this would contribute to increasing the status of vocational and vocational training, and thus also to streamlining. Today, more people are applying for preparatory studies than for professional subjects. The need that society has for skilled workers in everything from health to construction is rife. I have seen that some people also say that this proposal is hopeless, when what we need is skilled workers. I think it's the opposite. I think that is also why the social partners, the two largest on each side, believe that this is the right proposal. Tor-Arne Solbakken, Vice-Chairman of the LO, has said that not giving those who take a diploma, the opportunity to study further is discrimination against knowledge. I agree. As stated in the interpellation, today almost nine out of ten parents with higher education choose to start in special studies. They do it because they are afraid to be locked inside a system with few or unclear possibilities. In my opinion, we are missing out on a lot of good professionals, because their perception of what a letter is, and what opportunities it offers, is not necessarily correct – because that already gives us a lot of opportunities today. But I think that the perception of what the students have of what it is, rhymes quite well with the signal that we as a society, as a big community, communicate about the profession and professional directions. We see that, for example, on health professionals' lines, more than half of those who go there choose to drop off, then move on to preparatory studies and never start learning to take the letter. If we could recognise the professions nationally, in the same way that we recognise them through the Qualifications Framework, more students from more social groups would probably also be able to choose a profession more easily than today. It would be easier to communicate that this is an education that gives you every opportunity to pass on in life. I believe that this proposal will strengthen Norwegian education. Instead of making special arrangements for the further course with a professional letter in special higher education courses, we give a general access to continuing with a professional letter. So it'll probably be met by some obstacles: how secure fair admission? Some studies already have requirements for advance training if you do not meet real-life requirements. This may also be relevant for other subjects with special requirements for specialised knowledge. The point is to give everyone with completed secondary education the right to proceed. The future will require adaptability. Norway shall live on our knowledge. What could be better than to give the greatest possible access to knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e651	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Wickholm, for addressing a question of great importance. It is important to contribute to a number of young people choosing to complete secondary education by letter. Norwegian society is now and in the future completely dependent on more skilled workers if we are to maintain our welfare society. Norwegian trade union workers are characterised by autonomy and self-employment, compared to many of their colleagues in other countries. This constitutes an important foundation for maintaining a well-functioning welfare society. Therefore, sound and attractive vocational education and training is a crucial card in our well-being and competitiveness. I am sure that I have the representative Wickholm with me in my view of this. I would like to stress that the letter itself is a solid education that stands well on its own, that gives interesting jobs, and that solves important tasks in our society – and not only is an intermediate station for something else, but it can be an intermediate station for something else. I am, like the representative of Wickholm, concerned that choices in the education process should not place undue restrictions on opportunities for education later on for those who want it. It may be easy to agree that, for example: a health-care professional, with good grades from the community and perhaps a few years of work experience, may be more motivated and better rusted than a 19-year-old who has just been through high school and has faced an emergency alarm. However, it may be too easy to say that we should open up higher education for everyone with a degree letter. There are different considerations that argue for and against the proposal to equate applicants with professional letters and applicants with completed preparatory education. That's why I want to take up some moments that we have to weigh against each other. The question of what to do in order to benefit from higher education was thus promoted already by the Plan Committee in 1945. The Committee proposed an equivalent system between vocational training and general education. The Plan Committee considered that vocational training provided training of the same value as general education. However, the proposal encountered such resistance that the Stortinget did not proceed with the proposal at the time. In 2003, the majority of the quality committee considered that all those who have completed 13 years of schooling should be generally prepared for study. The starting point of the proposal was to make it easier for pupils in the vocational education programmes to start in higher education without having to take the additional year. Several of the Quality Committee hearing bodies were sceptical about the proposal. Among other things, the university and higher education sectors were concerned about a further level reduction. It was shown that there are already many people who are struggling to complete a university study, suggesting that the part of secondary education to prepare students for school is not working optimally today. The quality selection proposal was not followed up. The Karlsen Committee, which presented the NOU for future training in 2008, considered that young people with vocational training who wanted to take higher education will both be motivated for studies and have the prerequisites for doing so. In addition, the sample provided that all students are relevant to this, have received good advice on their future choices during their secondary education. The committee further argued that in current schemes there are examples of some studies balancing the different assumptions of the students in introduction courses or in introduction classes. This could also be extended to several studies. I perceive the Karlsen Committee so that there is a need to balance differences in the background of competence between skilled workers and students with study skills. It was suggested, among other things: to offer introduction courses and other opportunities for taking all or part of the general subjects, adapted to higher-level studies. Today, an additional year is the main offer for students from vocational training programmes who want to gain study competence. Through Reform 94, all the professions gained a core of common subjects of general interest. This made it possible to establish a joint academic year in order to enable professionals, irrespective of their professional background, to acquire general study competence. Although this scheme wanted to improve the chances of higher education for professionals, it was hardly imagined that the search for the supplemental year would be so strong. In recent years, the search for follow-up courses has increased dramatically. In 1996, there were 1,700 applicants. In 2001, there were 5,500 students and 13,500 students in 2011. So this is an increase of 145 pst. in the last 10 years. A recent report presents a study of the educational offer of building-up for general school competence in 2010–2011. The project has been carried out on behalf of the five municipalities of Eastfold, Akershus, Buskerud, Rogaland and Nord-Trøndelag. Some important key points from the study are: it shows that completion has become a major road through secondary education for a large number of professionals. The study shows that almost one out of five on-board students had decided to take up building already before they started high school. The assumption that accommodation is a collection site for students who really want a place to learn is not correct – almost all students on completion had the course as their first choice. The main problem of build-up is the high proportion that does not complete. It's just a little over 50 pst. which consists of the supplemental year at the normal time. This could mean that the supplemental year is too tough and too ambitious for large parts of this student group. Although this study includes students who have applied from Vg2 to follow-up, and thus does not include those who have completed a vocational training course, there is reason to consider whether this is a signal that the requirements for study competence can best be achieved on the basis of completed preparatory education. In a study on the motivation of pupils for the choice of education by NIFU, students in health-care workers' and children's and youth workers' training are asked about their education and career plans when they are at Vg1, Vg2 and in their apprenticeship. The aim of the study is to find out why so many choose to build on general study competence instead of completing the course. The trend is very clear: already at Vg1, many people are planning to take higher education. About 37 pst. planned to proceed correctly on completion after Vg2. When you ask the students at Vg2, this proportion increases to 50 pst. Those who are apprentices, or who plan to complete the course, also want to go on in higher education. The survey shows that the students are primarily concerned with working conditions when making such choices. They believe that they will not get the jobs and career opportunities they want without taking on higher education. In this context, it is important to develop and expand the Y-route as an offer for skilled workers. In Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012 Welfare Education was shown that young people with professional letters such as health professionals, child and youth workers, orthopaedic technicians or in the ambulance profession know a lot about what to do in health and welfare services, and what challenges employees face professionally and humanely with different user groups. In order to contribute to making health and social secondary education more attractive, the government will facilitate it to provide the basis for higher education admission through a Y-directional system. The Y-route is about specially organised offers based on previous education and work experience. It is also about recognising professional competence as valuable in an academic context, which is particularly important in areas of competence which depend on a strong link to the profession for quality reasons. Engineering training has good experience with the Y-road. Candidates are attractive in the labour market, and reports also show that the study environment has improved with several types of students. This review shows that the question raised by the representative, Mr Wickholm, needs to be discussed further. In the spring of 2013, I will present a message to the Stortinget based on the evaluations of the Knowledge Lift. There, it would be natural to discuss what requirements we as a society should set for admission to higher education — but also whether it may be reasonable to look at how we organise the professional courses up to the letter. An organisation where parts of the common subjects come later than in the first two years may provide a better basis for managing transition to higher-level studies. I therefore look forward to continuing this discussion. In conclusion, I would like to say that I support the representative, Wickholm, that we still have to work to raise the status of the professions in several ways. I am concerned that we have a vocational training course that is of high quality and that gives us good skilled workers. I am concerned that we will continue to do well in events like Professionals-NM, -EM and -VM. And I'm concerned that we're raising the good goals that lie in the newly signed community contract for multiple learning places. Here the social partners and the government have agreed on both future goals and what we commit ourselves to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e688	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also thank her for signaling that these are things that are important to discuss further. Just to underline it, I fully agree with what the Council of State has to say, that professional science has great value in itself. Having a professional letter has great value in itself. It's not a station to go on. But I'm concerned that it could be, and that we don't say to Norwegian youth: if you choose preparatory studies, all opportunities are there for you – be what you want, do what you want. But if you choose a profession, it's a pretty fast race that's ahead of you – unless you're going to be 25 during that period, because then everything is suddenly open again. I think it would be better if we signaled earlier that you have taken a letter, you also have a competence that enables you to use knowledge in a sensible way and to be able to acquire new knowledge, which I think the Norwegian Qualifications Framework is a clear indication. Then it was also shown that the Quality Committee pointed out that there were many who had problems in completing a university education. It was also true of those who had gone preparing for the study. The quality committee also pointed out that some of the problem might not be on the students who came in, but on how they were met by universities, and the way in which learning took place in the institutions. Then I think it is good the work done by the government in connection with Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012, on the Y-road for health professionals. But I think you can draw some quick conclusions when you say that building is too boring and too tough for someone, and that you say that the best way is maybe to go through the study preparation. The ability to build today is described by many who are very boring and monotonous, and you have quite a collection of the subjects you haven't taken. So where you have a few hours here and a few hours there on the preparatory line, you go into a line where you get to be met with seven hours of Norwegian a day – and then you have to sit and do it. I think it's a very little motivating way of working on. At least I like the positive signals. I also look forward to the debate. Hope it's going to be an exciting and prejudice-free debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e703	I do not want us to collect what we have of knowledge now, when the latest reports come about the promise of knowledge, plus the information that is available, among other things. The new thing we now know about the supplemental year, which, after all, too many people have gone around and believed was something that students who didn't get the apprenticeship would think, but which they really didn't want. So it turns out it's not like that. It turns out that quite a number of students want to combine their professional skills with their study skills, and they make their own mix, namely – fully planned – by choosing to go to Vg1 and Vg2 in a professional field and then switch to building. They probably do not have the same overview when they plan for such a race, where the additional year is demanding. It is quite right, as the representative Wickholm says, that it is a year of accumulation for what is missing, and it can be a very heavy year – probably the heaviest year in the entire offer of higher education. I am also interested in that review to see what it is that those who have decided all the way to apply for nurse training choose health care and that combination – and I think they are doing very much because they are looking for something that is relevant to the training they can imagine later on. I don't think that applies only to the higher education and the professional subjects, I think it also applies to the preparatory study. I am getting more and more requests that this also applies in higher education and universities. More relevance is sought in the way the studies are conducted — often in closer cooperation with the world of work and the course of study provided. It is a very exciting discussion that I believe should also be included in this. Then we have some challenges in how to facilitate good vocational training. The model that today is two plus two – two years in school and two years in education – is too flexible for many races. It is a desire to be able to combine contact with the working life and the theoretical a little more in a zipper over four years than it has been put up to now. I think it'll increase the learning outcomes for a lot of people. I also think that the professional professions may have some challenges: it is probably – increasingly – scary for a 16-year-old to make choices that exclude some opportunities already at that young age, and that one reason why many people choose preparatory studies is that they want to keep all opportunities open.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e712	First, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important theme. I think this is something we should work to get more people to choose a profession, raise the status of all further training and get a more balanced gender balance in the choice of education and profession. In addition, I am busy getting more flexibility in the further training. Professionals have been in the last row of the education system for a long time. The value of craft and professional training has not been given the positive position and emphasis that is in proportion to what all the important, interesting and great subjects actually represent. On the other hand, I would say that the emphasis on professional disqualification causes the subject itself to have a negative focus. We have to turn that around. When an e.g. have a letter as an electrician, which has a very good competence. We must learn to value that competence, and it must be possible to use it in a number of ways, not just to work or to pass it on to an engineer. In my interview with the Minister of Knowledge on 29 March this year, to get more people to choose untraditionally, especially at the professional level, there were five measures I thought should be in place to get this done: better advice, projects with role models, networking, equal opportunities managers in the county municipality and that professional letters should give study competence. I believe that these measures apply quite generally to both boys and girls. I believe that improving the provision of counselling and study skills are key factors in improving the quality of study provision for all. Often we hear parents say to their youth: Take general education, there is no obstacle to what you can do further. But I believe that if a letter also gave competence for further studies, it would have been easier to start with a subject. I believe that increasing the status of the profession and improving the gender balance are two aspects of the same matter. Today, it appears that of those who have gone Y-roads, from professional without study competence to engineering training, there is a far greater proportion who complete and exist than in engineering training, which is based on the usual pre-school skills. This is because, I think, you might want to test out the Y path in other subjects as well. I said first of all that I think flexibility is important. Then I think it should be possible that if you have spent two or three years in a general course of study, you might then be allowed to take a compressed professional course – that one can take a professional start instead of a study. Because when you're a 15- to 16-year-old, it's not very easy to know what you can become, as the minister did. Then, as I have said before, many people take general subjects so that there should be no obstacles. But if you want to go into a professional field afterwards, the road is usually closed, and you have in a way used up your ‘right’ – so you have to start all over again. I think that one still has a pretty good basis in the basic subject, and then it should be possible to create a compressed race for the professional part. We must also retain the right to an apprenticeship. With such a race, we will make the further study provision for further education much more flexible. I would like the Council of State to assess such a possibility. So to another little thing, which I thought should be considered. Very often we hear that people think there's too much theory on the professional ball, but I think that in addition to the theory that one gets, one should also be able to choose other theoretical subjects. Because it's actually possible to be interested in both electro and history. Again, my goal is a more flexible education system. The Action Plan for Gender Equality states that it is an objective to have less gender-based educational choices. If we do so, it will also raise the status of a professional. Better advice I often talk about. I just want to ask a question: are there any youth schools that have professionals who give advice? I think that competence is very small in the youth sphere. What we hear from many elephants when it comes to consulting is that if you have good grades, you are told to take general education, and if you are in the middle of the tree and are a girl, then you can take the drawing, the shape and the color. It can't be like that. On the weekend, I was with the girls in the ‘Women in Bil & Elektro’ and they gave me feedback that it was a little unwieldy, so they themselves have created their own brochure that I want to give to the Minister of Knowledge, about alternatives if one takes a professional course.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e735	I have enjoyed this debate since 8 May, when L.L. Vice-Chairman Tor-Arne Solbakken, and the representative Wickholm stood up in the newspaper with his happy message, which I already understand a little bit. That is why I was looking forward to the debate today, and therefore the disappointment is great when I understand even less after hearing today's introduction. I'm glad that the Council of State has already put dead and powerless the most outraged interpretation of Wickholm's play, so that we don't spend any more time on it, because I don't understand what the representative means. Does the representative believe that two years of secondary vocational education should qualify for carte blanche in higher education? Or does he think that two years at school and two years as an apprentice and a few years at work should qualify for that? What does that qualify for? All these questions remain unanswered, but I'm glad that the Council of State is as clear as she is, that you have to be competent and conscious of your competence to enter higher education. The same Solbaken says that not giving professionals the opportunity to study is discrimination. Yes, but there is no one in this room who wants it. No one in this room wants to disqualify professionals from taking higher education. That's why we've established the supplemental year, we've established the Y-way, and we've established an advance. It's not the opposition that has stood in the way of establishing the Y-way in several places. On the contrary, it is necessary to work qualitatively and quantitatively in the development of the Y-way, as today. I think the Council of State said it very well: it is about building on the specific professional skills acquired at school, in practice and in work, before you have the opportunity to take higher education in the fields from which you have this professional competence. I'm glad you've made a step further in this direction, and I hope you keep working on it. But it's a good thing we're talking about the drop-out in high school – I'm going to come back to it afterwards – but we already have a pretty big drop-out in higher education. It's not just looking up the university door on a wide gap for students who've been in school for two years. With Wickholm's approach, why in all days should anyone choose to go three years of specialisation if you can enter higher education after two years of professional education? I'll assume that it's going to be pretty shiny in those sequences. I'm glad the Council of State saw until those degrees say it's not relevant. I remember that it's no use talking about high school drop-outs and falling out of higher education at that altar. The representative Eldegard has been sitting on the Stortinget for eight years with the red-green government, and now she is worried about the Norwegian school councillor. Yeah, it's been the Progress Party for the same eight years, and it hasn't gotten any better. Clearly, Norwegian school advisers have one professional background – they are teachers. I fully agree with Mr Eldegard's representative that they advise the best students that they should take study-specialisation. It's because they don't have the skills for so much other than the academy and the school. Of course, we have to change that. But then I have to be allowed to say – I see that time is beginning to run out – that the drop-out in high school is primarily in the professions. It does not help send students who are falling out of high school, into universities and colleges to fall from there instead. What helps, on the other hand, is to make sure that there are enough apprenticeship places available. That's what the opposition needs in quite a few years. Perhaps you can use the last year you have left in government to make sure that being an apprentice in Norway is more lucrative? It'll qualify several of the students you're talking about here, to take a diploma, but also to take a higher education, through the Y-way. So the answer is not to send people who are falling out of high school into higher education. It is, with respect to reporting, not good use of tax money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e752	The government’s response was far from reassuring. The right is therefore of the opinion that the proposal on general vocational study competence does not solve any problems, but rather contributes to the creation of new ones. If the objective of the inter-pellant is to make the professions more attractive, his instrument – to sanctify with study competence – is not the way to go. This can only mean that there is a need to ensure greater space for the Community if vocational training is to be effectively prepared for study. It is a pleasure that the interpellant has great faith in the promise of knowledge. So does Right. But it's worth remembering the fact that the first six-year-olds who started with the promise of knowledge don't leave primary school until 2016, i.e. in four years. We are hoped that many more students will then have the necessary level of knowledge and skills to achieve a completely different level of implementation in higher education than today. It is widely known that we have a non-response problem even in higher education. From the university and higher education sectors, there is a warning and concern that many of today’s students coming from specialisation programmes do not have the professional ballast needed for higher education. When this is the situation, the proposal of the Workers' Party and the LO on general study competence is both surprising and unwise. If you do not intend to focus more on the subject of theory, it would be unfair to the graduate candidates to equip them with general study skills — when it will not provide them with sufficient basis for mastering higher education. Let me say: Right-wing people want to have a lifelong right – if you want to build on it later – to gain study competence. We want real-time competence assessment to be made more accessible. Right will have even more Y-ways into higher education. From business managers we hear that the very best engineers in Norway today are those who have taken a letter and who have work experience in the profession, before they take their engineering training. We must learn from this. I guess we're really trying to learn from that even now, with new suggestions on making Y paths into the health profession. I have had the impression that there has been a cross-political agreement to strengthen the professions, but with today's interpellation, the Workers' Party creates full confusion. Instead of strengthening and reinvigorating the professions on their own premises, the representative Truls Wickholm is actually talking down the professional subjects. It's not to value the professions. Why is it a point to equip professionals with study skills, if a letter was the goal? The right notes that the proposal of the Workers' Party and the LO to provide vocational training facilities is also on a clear collision course with communications from the labour market, if necessary, in order to give the apprenticeships more space and even more professional theory in the common subjects. Many have expressed concern about the availability of skilled labour. The Minister of Knowledge has also done so on a number of occasions. It is strange that proposals are now being launched that can help to exacerbate that situation. If many young people take up professional places, and then go to higher education, we may have a significant lack of key skills in the form of skilled labour. Such a development will Right-wing warn strongly against it. Since the year on the right, we have proposed a number of measures to raise the status of professionals and to make the subjects more substantively adapted to the needs of the apprenticeship system, because professionals themselves believe it is important, and because employers ask for it. While good advice is important, access to adequate apprenticeships is essential for students to feel secure that, when applying for a professional course, they also have the opportunity to complete their vocational training. It took an unacceptable amount of time to get the social contract in place. The right now calls for concrete measures, such as: stepping up the apprenticeship grant, in order to stimulate more apprenticeships, both in the private and public sectors. The state still has a long way to go. Right will have previous placements, so that students at school will know if they are getting a place or one. We must avoid forcing professionals who are motivated to take a letter of formal qualifications on the basis of study specialisation. Instead of making professionals unsafe in their choice of education — as the interpellant does — we must insist that vocational letters have their own value and are a final competence society so urgently needed. To this end, the right will challenge the government to become a professional and to focus on measures to maintain high professional standards within the academic community. It suggests that the proposal on general vocational study competence is scrapped here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e775	Norway lacks skilled workers. We need people with university and college backgrounds, and we need skilled workers. The representative of Wickholm shall be commended for having an important debate. It allows us to discuss issues in common in the Storting before conclusions are drawn. The government has announced an evaluation of the Knowledge promise, and there will be a big message in the spring of 2013. This not only gives the government parties, but also gives the opposition the opportunity to make their input before the message is finished. That means that everyone has an opportunity to influence. And I'm actually of the opinion that broad decisions are the best way to give School Norway the best predictability possible. So to the matter itself. The interpellant asks whether we should equalise the courses of professional and study-specializing, so that both courses can qualify directly for university studies. Professionals and study specialists are currently two different courses. Last year’s reforms have taken action to make the race more equal than in the past, as explained by the Council of State. Today, the basic or common subjects have the same professional competence objectives as in study-specific subjects. A paradox is that this is just one of the appeals to the professions as they are today. They've become too theoretical. Study preparation lines should – as stated in the word – precisely clarify the students for further academic studies. This means that they should be oriented towards more academic demands and ways of working. The professional subjects have a different device and shall prepare the students for taking a professional letter within a particular profession or profession. The government has registered. St. 13 for 2011–2012 on welfare professionals proposed to experiment with an exchange model in the health and social field. This means that the study will switch between practice and theory from Vg1 and over four years. Such a model will allow for maturation and better understanding of the subjects and, hopefully, provide the opportunity for fewer deletions and not obtaining final competence, which has been a problem in this education today. Experience with the Y-route has been shown to provide good results, not least experience in engineering has been good. In Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012 proposes that the government apply this also in the field of health. It will be exciting to follow the experience gained with it. In order to assess whether we are going to equalise the two courses of vocational and preparatory education, we need to know what we want to achieve. The most important thing is that, as lawmakers, we facilitate the acquisition of the skills we need in the future. It's also important that we take into account the expectations of colleges and universities. In order to conduct effective teaching and get students through the studies in a reasonable time, it is necessary that students also have the necessary knowledge to cope with the study. In that context, I think there are several studies and institutions that could have been even more challenging in terms of making demands for their students. The interpellant is concerned with the low status of professional subjects. I think status is just as much about how we talk about the subjects, how much we focus on it in national debates, and it's about pay after school. In the view of the Centre Party, the problem of low status for professional subjects is not that they do not qualify directly for university studies. The problem is that professional competence in practical subjects is not valued in society in the same way as an academic degree. That's the problem. It is different from one professional to another: some vocational studies provide high status, high skills and high pay, and therefore the need is not the same in all courses of study. The most important thing is to ensure that the professional professions have a high status by virtue of their peculiarity, not because they are qualified for higher studies. Today, there is no profession that stops the desire to achieve higher education. What is important is that we facilitate, so that those who have attended a course and obtain a diploma are entitled to take preparatory work. For example, there will be an escape. students in the health and social field to be concerned about not being able to go on to the nursing study after finishing the course. Then they don't have to do what they do today, drop off the profession after two years in order to get on with it. Several municipalities offer this today. The centre party wants it to be an offer in all counties. Other subjects have the opportunity to qualify for higher education by taking pre-school courses, master's letters and, where appropriate, engineering studies. Social cohesion is important, and equality is important, but my clear view is that it is time for us to recognise the professions and the professional competences given by virtue of what they are today. Nothing stops further education, but that's not what should give recognition. We have to recognise and pay people for the expertise they have – regardless of whether they have gone to university or not. All university graduates are heavily dependent on professionals, and it's time to admit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e807	First of all, I must say that it does not speak to the academic's advantage when the doctoral scholar Tord Lien does not understand what the proposal is about. I think I said quite clearly at the end of my post that we have to ensure a general access to higher education, but nevertheless, in some cases, it will be necessary to advance, build on and achieve the kind of skills that are actually needed in the studies. No one here has said that two years in electrical science will give you the right to start the medical study, or two years in engineering and industrial production – TIP – will give you direct access to anything. Secondly, I think it would be premature to try to create the impression that you can get right in after two years on a professional line – I actually said it was a completed letter. It does not speak for the benefit of the representatives – those who have been up here and have chatted with it – that they do not recognise the knowledge that is actually acquired through two to two and a half years of learning. It is significant and also provides an opportunity to study further, I believe. Then you're also one, maybe two years older than your fellow students from preparatory studies. It is also entirely agreed that just reaching the age of 25, you are suddenly magically accepted for higher education. So Lien says it'll be hopeless to send those who are already unable to do the occupations into the academy. But we are talking here about a system that will motivate more – and also another type of student – to take this path, like to take a letter, but could also go on in higher education, engineering or the like. One of the reasons why study preparation is going so well today is that it's those high-school students who also start preparatory, not necessarily because what's happening there, is so very, very special and very good. You have to set up more Y paths. I think that this way would be better, and I think it's strange that the Right – who usually believes in the individual and the individual's ability to make their own choices – does not believe in the individual with their professional letters and their ability to assess which courses of education would be relevant to them. So there have to be rules and regulations that restrict them. But I am pleased that the Council of State has at least said that it is interesting to continue working on the proposal and look at possible pathways into higher education for those with professional and professional qualifications... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e821	I think this is a debate that should invite you to look for better solutions to the combination of professional subjects and to build on the study preparation that students in higher education themselves have come up with. It's obvious that the supplemental year, when we're up to 13,000 students, has a much larger scale than anyone else saw. There should be some kind of safety valve for those who changed their mind in the course of their journey. But now the situation is that quite a few have planned – i.e. This is what is the main picture — a combination of professional and vocational skills, which means that half of them do not complete because of the tougher attachment than they thought. Then we have to see if we can manage to find any other mixes on this. I think that the interpellant Wickholm addresses a problem that is very important. I wish that there were no caricatures here when it comes to finding good solutions to this, because I am absolutely sure that we can manage to find better ways that make us meet the desire of many young people to have more practical training, but also to have the opportunity to move on to higher education. Then, of course, it's important that those who start higher education should have a good foundation and succeed when they start higher education. Different course is a very good device. I am also concerned about better implementation in higher education. Fortunately, we now have better data at the individual level that can tell us something about how the state is. The speech of the figures is a little more complicated than when we consider non-admission or lack of completion in higher education: many students change places of study, work a year, but come back again – it is a more complex, slightly more curly image we see in higher education than we see in higher education. If we are to be able to raise the status of the professions – we need many more, probably 65,000 more skilled workers by 2030 – we must ensure that we maintain how attractive jobs can lead to professional letters. We have to make sure we get apprenticeship places. I am very pleased that we now agree with the parties on a social contract, which is historic because for the first time it says that we commit ourselves to working for an increase in the number of apprenticeship places by 20 pst. When we know that we've increased the number of apprenticeship places by 20 pst. from 2009 to 2011, it is fully available by 2015. It's a big boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e832	That is when the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e846	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e855	This is one thing we're going to have plenty of time to discuss in this room later. This is a bill, which has now been consulted, and which the Ministry of Culture is now working on. It is a proposal to ensure the rights of artists and to try to prevent them from being stolen from their work online. Hearing replies are now being processed in the department. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, will decide on any proposals when the matter is referred to the Stortinget. We therefore look forward to a good debate then. However, we note that the Progress Party wishes to take a decision on the matter now, and they base their position on two of the 75 hearing opinions that have come and which have a dissenting position on the proposal submitted by the government, while we note that the large majority support the legislative proposal. Nevertheless – the majority is not prepared to decide on the matter until we have received a thorough review of the matter presented by the government in a legislative proposal, which comes to the Stortinge in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e862	At least there are not two completely insignificant actors who are very negative – among other things. ICT Norway, which is very concerned about privacy, is one of the organisations that is very critical of this proposal. For the Progress Party, freedom of expression is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. The political debate is increasingly taking place on the Internet, for example: Facebook, blogs, dedicated theme pages and the press's debate pages. Generation after generation in Norway has ensured that we have the legal protection of freedom of expression in established debate venues. That's good. We also have provisions in the penal code that allow prison sentences for the person who opens the letters of others, for example. No one would like the Post to register every letter you send and receive. In addition, this is actually illegal. The Government has drawn up a proposal to enhance the conditions under which private operators can monitor traffic on the Internet and access information identifying persons. If the concession requirement is waived in favour of an alert obligation, several tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of rightholders could initiate the collection, registration and processing of IP addresses on their own. This information is considered to be so sensitive today that a concession is required to ensure that the processing of information respects privacy. The progress party has previously raised the matter that the law firm Simonsen was given a concession to operate with internet surveillance and IP addresses. A case in the Netherlands illustrates one of the potential contradictions between copyright and freedom of expression. The Scientology Church believed that they had copyrighted unpublished Scientology documents, which a writer used to argue that the religious community was a fraud, and so the religious community sued both the author and several Internet vendors. The trial started in 1995. The Church of Scientology lost its place in a lower court of law and withdrew the case just before it went to the Dutch Supreme Court in 2005. In fact, all parties at Stortinget have answered the following questions from the «Clear Answer» campaign: ‘Is their lot in order that information which may link a person to an IP address is to be provided to persons other than the police?’ All the parties answered no to this question, with the exception of the Workers' Party, which was the only party that did not agree that information that could link a person to an IP address should be provided to anyone other than the police. I am very disappointed with the Minister of Culture's response to the proposal for a representative of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture. It is okay and natural that the Council of State refers to the forthcoming bill on changes in the copyright law. What is alarming, however, is that the Council of State does not respond to the proposal for a decision on specific proposals for the legal protection of freedom of expression and anonymity on the Internet. This shows that the Council of State does not take freedom of expression seriously, and that the mantra of more democracy, more transparency, has no real content. I don't think the Transport Committee had accepted such an answer. I am also a little surprised at how the other parties deal with the proposal in the position of the family and cultural committee. The other parties would not agree with a sentence that privacy and freedom of expression are key elements of Norwegian democracy. The other parties would obviously not agree with a statement that the Data Protection Authority has an important role to play. In other countries there has been a heated debate on the negative impact of US SOPA and ACTA on both privacy and freedom of expression, which goes on the same as the Workers' Party and the Minister of Culture want to introduce into Norway. We have all seen pictures from the Polish Parliament where parliamentarians one day met in masks to demonstrate against ACTA. I wish for the same commitment to freedom of speech on the Internet also in Norway, and not least in this room. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e893	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e896	When not the other parties, and at least not the Right, have thrown themselves with the Advance Party in this context, it is not because we want to express some lack of interest in freedom of expression. But that's not what this hearing is about. What this consultation is about is the framework for the protection of copyright, i.e. copyright. The debate that the Progress Party wants to draw up is of interest in and on its own. It is important to balance the limits of freedom of expression and, in this context, perhaps at least as important as what should be the legal basis for entering into control functions, which you would like to do in order to protect copyright. But there's a little pointless discussion when we don't have what's the starting point of the case, namely the question of copyright and the balance that you have to do with it. I think we can get interesting discussions about this when the matter comes from the government. I would like to take this opportunity to also point out the importance of the legal framework currently in force in relation to freedom of expression as such, and also in relation to the legal protection which is transparent in various ways, being documented in the document that is coming – and I expect it to. It has to be the same framework as in the digital world as in – let's call it – the analogue, and the same kind of legal certainty that applies there. I guess I don't have any particular reason to think that the government won't do the same. I look forward to a good debate when we have a basis for taking it. Having an open debate on freedom of expression in general, we could probably also have had, but then you might be able, for example. traveled an interpellation. In this context, it is linked to a draft consultation to a specific law, and then it makes no sense to discuss this without dealing with the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e907	I would like to stress that the starting point for us to want to review this law is the representative Olemic Thommessen points out that there is a need for the same rules in the digital world as it is in the rest of the world, in the sense that if I take a DVD and copy it up and distribute it, there's no doubt that I'm stealing a mental work. But if I do the same thing online: I take a movie, I distribute it to those I think it should be distributed to, without giving those who have made the movie money for it, it's as serious an infringement, I think, of the copyright rules as copying DVDs physically. I therefore believe that freedom of expression should underpin all the policies we pursue. If I hand out a book, a song or a movie that others have made, I cannot invoke the freedom of speech and say that I must have the freedom to distribute what the other has created. But this is a comprehensive law, for it is and should be restrictions on how to enforce the copyright law. In France, they have done so that you can close the Internet for a family where a person may have copied something illegal. That's what I mean to go too far. While in other countries, for example: in Sweden – have other forms of mental health care. I also believe that in some cases in the United States, criminal prosecution has gone a long way. Little boys in a boy's room may have copied something and not known it was illegal, and then they've been punished very hard for it, because you want to make an example. That is why, through this bill, we have involved many parties, both those who are involved in online privacy and those who are concerned with copyright holders, in order to make a balanced legislative proposal. It is precisely this Greatness that is to be presented during the autumn. This is also something that we have stressed in Soria Moria II, where we say, in meeting with the digital dissemination of art and culture, we want a more effective enforcement of the copyright law. There have been very many who have been involved in the hearing discussion until now – 67 instances – and we will soon come back to the Stortinge with a proposal for a change. There's reason to underline one thing. The representative, Bård Hoksrud, was involved with the law firm Simonsen, which today has the opportunity to monitor IP addresses. I don't think that's a good solution, and that's exactly why the Data Protection Authority has asked us to regulate this in a better way than today. They have also supported the proposal we have and believe that it takes sufficient account of privacy. The law of spiritual works shall balance the various aspects. On the one hand, it must protect the fundamental needs of copyright holders in order to live up to their work. On the other hand, the law shall promote the interests of society in terms of access to culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e920	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e923	I want to challenge the Minister of Culture on the issue of removing the requirement of concession to obtain this information and to operate with this kind of monitoring. I have to ask the Council of State why she believes it is entirely okay that anyone can now start to conduct a private investigation in order to collect personal data about who is online, and who is behind the different IP addresses. Because that is the consequence of what is now proposed. This is not just about copyright, it's about freedom of expression, and it's about the right to be anonymous online.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e928	This is precisely what we are going to discuss when we are going to present the changes to the copyright law for Stortinget. It won't be free for everyone to write down IP addresses. Everyone can monitor IP addresses today, but it is not allowed to write down the IP address, it is not allowed to store that information. It will be clear in the proposal we are presenting to the Storting to prevent abuse of this system. It will be in the proposal that the Stortinget will be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e933	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e939	I have to say I am a little surprised when I hear the debate, especially when I hear the representative from the Right. I wonder if he has actually read what the proposal is about. It is much more extensive than that of the copyright law and the consultation proposal that has been out for consultation. In fact, it is about looking at the privacy of the individual and legislating the right to privacy. That is the whole purpose of the proposal as well. It is much more comprehensive than I perceive that the representative from the Right believes this. The hearing is not so much about freedom of expression, it is okay, but the proposal is very much about freedom of expression and privacy. Therefore, it is sad to choose such a narrow approach to such an important issue. And, as I said, in other parliaments, we have recorded a completely different commitment to similar proposals and what that means for the individual's privacy and, in particular, freedom of expression. Of course, the Advance Party fully agrees that the police will have the full opportunity to collect this information in order to do the job that the police are supposed to do, but that anyone should be allowed to obtain this information, at least the Advance Party believes is completely wrong medicine. That's why we're also very critical of what's going on here. We find it sad that no other political parties in this Chamber want to support our proposal, which is so important and good, and which reads as follows: «The Government is asked to make concrete proposals for the legal protection of freedom of expression and anonymity on the Internet.» I actually thought it was important for those who are concerned with freedom of speech and privacy, but unfortunately it seems that the committee has chosen not to address that issue, but only to address the hearing. As I say – even though there are only two of those who have been very critical of the proposal that lies here, it is at least important to listen to them, because they are very concerned with privacy, and it is important for the people of Norway. That the Right is not so concerned with privacy, and that the Workers' Party is not so concerned about privacy, we then discussed the proposal for DLD, the Data Storage Directive, as the two parties provided a majority for the monitoring of Norwegian citizens and for the control of whom you call, where you call, and when you call. I guess the next thing you need to know is what you're talking about on the phone, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e955	It may not be so strange that we connect this to the hearing, because it actually says to read: «The proposers refer to legislative proposals on changes to the copyright law on measures against illegal file sharing and other copyright violations etc.» I don't think it can be said more clearly. Isn't that what this is about? If you wanted a broad debate on freedom of expression, it might have been natural, for example. to do it in an interpellation. I honestly think that it is a little borderline on the unprofessional to draw this in that direction and make the kind of accusations that the representative Hoksrud is making here. I wonder at all that the Progress Party is so quick at this. I thought the Progress Party supported private ownership. The Progress Party has on many occasions stated that they want artists to make their own money, because it's not that much money to raise in the budgets. If artists are to make their own money, they're actually dependent on setting limits for earnings. Then I think it's a little strange that the Progress Party subtracts from the hip with that kind of recording and completely ignores what's the starting point of the debate, namely how to balance copyright with the issues you draw up. There is no interest around it, and this seems – I would say – to be an extremely inconsistent proposal in view of the expressed point of departure of the Progress Party. But it may not be that the Progress Party will support copyright for artists. It may not be that the Progress Party wants frameworks that are manageable for copyright in terms of the performance that artists should have. In that case, we notice that, and of course we will have to come back to it in later debates where this will be the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e971	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e974	I understand that it is not a very pleasant thing for the representative from the Right to be reminded that the Right believes it is entirely right to restrict the privacy and freedom of expression of most people in this country. But I think it is special that he makes it clear in many ways that the only thing he is concerned with in this case is one side – and in fact will not relate to the proposal, and what the proposers are looking for: to get a statutory protection of freedom of expression and anonymity on the Internet. It's very sad, because this is very important, and it's part of the totality. Yes, the Progress Party supports private ownership. The Progress Party is concerned with copyright, but we are also concerned with the citizens and privacy, with the right to be anonymous on the Internet and at least that not every person who wants to do so should be allowed to store IP addresses and know who the person is. It has to be the task of the police in relation to crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e983	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e999	I think there are few of us in this room who understand what it's like to grow up in poverty in today's Norway. A project directed by Redd Barna and the Change Factory has helped to increase my understanding. The project has resulted in a book of advice to us politicians from children and young people who themselves have grown up with poor advice. MoneyProffene has given many wise advice and given me new insights into how poverty is developing in Norway. I would like to refer to three of those who describe how this is known: «I have bought my things myself since I was 5 years old. I have little, but if I really want something, I can afford it. Teach me at least to save my money. Actually, I guess it just has to go as it goes." Another one says: "It's so far we'll make it through the month. We don't have money for bread or butter. It's like that a lot. I use my scholarship for food. If we had done well over a month without it, it would have been delicious. Then I could use it for other things." And a third says: «If we don't have anything in the fridge, not bread, not butter, not dinner. We're not even going to be saturated. We can live without money for 5-7 days in a stretch. Then we can eat oatmeal, like at the farm. Those who are disabled and have children should receive a little more money." These are clear messages from the people involved — from children who know what it is like to grow up in poor families. The Christian People's Party does not think it is easy to eliminate poverty in Norway. But we can do even more. The size can introduce new measures that will give new opportunities and a better life to many of those who wear the most. ‘MoneyProfessions’ are particularly concerned with measures to improve the social inclusion of children and young people living in poor families. Sports teams, corps and municipal cultural schools are very valuable venues for social contact in child and youth wounds. In low-income families, participation in ordinary leisure activities could be impossible for economic reasons. Maybe you should give government support to municipalities that offer free space in the cultural sphere, or free cards that can be used to pay membership in the runner or in the football team? Today, many cultural spheres have long waiting lists. High property excludes many children from participation. The Christian People's Party has therefore asked the government to submit to the Stortinget a proposal for a mandatory escalating plan for the municipal music and cultural spheres. The social differences are usually more marked in larger urban communities. An incentive scheme has already been set up to address children and young people in larger urban communities, which has contributed to funding a number of good inclusion measures under the auspices of both municipalities and voluntary organisations. This system should be strengthened significantly, especially with a view to preventing social problems. This is in the spirit of cooperation reform. Education is crucial to escape poverty — including in Norway. The completion of continuing education is almost a necessary commitment for the future of good employment opportunities. The fight against non-response in secondary schools is therefore an important prevention measure against later income poverty. It is therefore appropriate to strengthen the response to non-compliance in secondary schools. The Christian People's Party will introduce a central system of appeal, an outlaw, which schools, county councils and municipalities can seek money from to fight against the drop-out in the very secondary school. The Christian People's Party will prioritise and target action against those who need it the most. For example, we will. have income-graded rates in the SFO that meet the families who really need support. Around 74 000 Norwegian children grow up in families with the current low income, according to the latest figures from the Statistical Central Bureau. Compared to the three-year period 2004–06, there are 6,500 more children now living in poverty. There are many children who every day have concerns far beyond who they are going to play with in the afternoon, and whether they get good food for dinner. These kids are worried about whether they're having dinner today or tomorrow, and they're mostly afraid that their classmates will find out how broken they are. That's why it's not tempting to bring anyone home. In the 1990s, child poverty went down in Norway because a number of social welfare schemes aimed at families with children were introduced. In the 21st century, developments have gone contrary. Childcare services have been provided, and pay trends do not follow. It has helped to increase the number of poor families with children over the last ten years, following a new report initiated and funded by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. Furthermore, there is no increase in welfare schemes that can ensure a good economy for children when parents do not have income work. Poverty is increasing when those with the lowest income are unable to live with, and it is the children of families who become the hardest frame. The Christian People's Party had hoped that the government would do something concrete for poor families of children in connection with the disbursement of the distribution message. We also had a good dialogue with the government parties on a few, some suggestions – on increasing access support, on cheaper childcare facilities for poor families, and on keeping cash and child benefit out of the measurement of social assistance – without us reaching it. A number of municipalities reduce the social assistance payments corresponding to the payment of cash support and child benefit, which means that these cash benefits fall off for the families with the worst income and need the most money. Some municipalities also reduce social assistance if children in the household have income. Cash support means a great deal to the economy of families with low income, research has shown. Therefore, the inclusion selection points out that there is a need for transitional arrangements to secure their income when the cash shock falls away. Another government-arranged selection, the Distribution Selection, says the following: ‘In the short term, however, the liquidation of the cash support will lead to increased economic differences as part of those who will lose the aid may have difficulties in obtaining work to counter the loss of income.’ The Christian People's Party is concerned that the government in the 2012 budget removes cash support for two-year-olds without compensating for the loss of income for low-income families and without allowing funds for the construction of children's playgrounds for the children who are missing. The relative poverty level does not provide a accurate picture of who needs help. A clearer definition of poverty and more knowledge of who is poor could help more people out of poverty. Action on income protection and labour rights, action on better living conditions and action on the social inclusion of children and young people are important areas of action. When it comes to my question to the Council of State, I have expectations because it is a Council of State that has highlighted itself with an commitment to this particular matter. She is responsible for both children and inclusion, and we know that the very trend of having more poor people is due to the fact that Norwegian society is changing. Fortunately, we've got several new Nordics, but it also helps to give us some challenges. Therefore, my challenge and my question: How will the Council of State proceed to reverse the trend and reduce child poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1045	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic and for doing so in the way he does: taking from the experiences that individuals have, and that not least children and young people have. I think that's an important perspective. Over the last decade, most social groups in Norway, not least families with children, have experienced a marked rise in real income. Sickness if the presence of low income has been somewhat stable in recent years, the proportion of children in low income households has increased. This is worrying. Having little in a society where most people have a lot can be tough. Low income in childhood may have an impact on the health status of children in the long term and often involve social exclusion. Mira Wiessen has shown in his doctoral thesis that young people in poor-advised families look more pessimistic in their prospects than others. I hear that the representative Hareide is problematic about the relative poverty target, but I think this makes sense. Poverty in a welfare state like Norway is little about lack of food and clothing, but it's a lot about exclusion, about concerns about future and non-paid bills, about poor living environments, about feeling less worth, about getting out, about not being able to participate in the normal way, about powerlessness, about contempt and sea contempt. Poverty can make people sick. Disease, both physical and mental, is also often a cause of poverty. First of all, I would like to stress that it is important that in the political debate we are aware of how we speak. Many people experience the debate as stigmatizing, and I notice that people who are in a vulnerable economic situation can become apprehensive when the debate on, for example, is taking place. social security systems are at their worst. They fear that they will lose even more of the little thing they have to live for. I would also like to stress that there are some people who cannot work. They must not feel a bad conscience for living in social security, but, on the contrary, they must have a decent level of income. In formulating an effective policy against poverty and inequality, we face many dilemmas and paradoxes. The first dilemma I would like to point out is that when we wind up the cash support for the two-year-olds, this could lead to more people having a difficult economic situation in the short term, which the representative Hareide also had in mind. At the same time, cash support is a clear obstacle to women's ability to earn maritime labour. In addition, for immigrant women, it is a barrier to learning Norwegian and understanding the society in which they live. A condition for receiving cash support is that you do not use kindergarten. Cash support can thus become a poverty trap for both mothers and children. Research on the living conditions of immigrant children in low-income families supports the political emphasis on professional participation and childcare in order to improve living conditions. It is therefore worrying that many municipalities are now paying to introduce their own municipal cash support. Another dilemma in poverty and distribution policy lies in the emphasis of the line of work. The working line is the government's main strategy to combat poverty. It's going to pay off to work, and so does it. During this period, the number of persons employed has increased by 250,000, and we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. At the same time, many social benefits, such as social assistance, are kept at a relatively low level. It is worth noting then that Nav’s annual report 2010 — Poverty in Norway, which says: ‘Living in poverty leads to more passiveness, marginalisation and isolation than to increased activity.’ The qualification programme and the introduction programme are examples of how we can combine higher performance with the workline. These programmes provide higher and stable benefits together with qualification. Perhaps we can develop more such measures with good quality. Outreach activities targeting migrant women have also been shown to be effective. Families with children make up a large and growing proportion of them with persistent low incomes. They are particularly lonely caregivers and couples with many children. Many low-income families have a migrant background, and those with a background from outside the OECD area are overrepresented. For many immigrants, it takes time to establish itself in the labour market and in the Norwegian society. The poverty rate is usually reduced by living time. The introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social skills are key tools to help new immigrants enter the labour market quickly. That's why we've also increased the number of hours of Norwegian education and social skills from 300 to 600 hours, from 1 January this year. Another important measure that I would like to draw up is what we call a new chance. This is a pilot scheme designed to increase the qualifications of immigrants from selected rural groups where many have low education. Women are a main target group. Free core time in kindergarten is another targeted measure that we have great faith in, and it also has the interpellant. The effort has been added to areas with a high proportion of minority languages. The aim is to prepare children well for school start-ups, to strengthen language skills and to strengthen children socially by emphasising play and interaction. In addition, we have concluded long-term cooperation agreements with the Municipality of Oslo to strengthen the living conditions in Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand, and we will follow up the existing investment in Oslo, Drammen, Bergen and Trondheim. The long-term strategies of government to prevent poverty among children and young people also need to focus on measures to improve their living conditions here and now, just as the interpellant also mentioned. The NOVA survey ‘Children’s living conditions’ has consistently recommended more emphasis on free leisure activities and really free schools as ways to address the effects of child poverty. That way, we can reduce the risk of children being socially excluded. Research into children’s experience of poverty has highlighted that social exclusion — not being able to participate in others’ participation — is one of the worst points in children’s lives. In addition, for immigrant children, they may lose an important arena to learn Norwegian language and culture. The Children’s and Youth Action Scheme in Greater Urban Communities strengthens the response to poverty by 9 million. kr in 2012. Through this scheme, 40.5 million will be distributed. to actions and projects contributing to the inclusion and participation of children, young people and families affected by poverty this year. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare also grants funds each year for specific measures for children, young people and families with children in contact with social services. In addition, we will explore activity support for children and young people in families affected by poverty problems. Voluntary organisations play an important role, and on the part of the government, we want good cooperation with them. One of the most important things that has been done by the red-green government is the enormous investment in kindergartens, combined with the fact that we have fenced around universal schemes and the free principle, for example. through the introduction of free teaching materials in secondary schools. In SV we discuss whether the full-day school should be the big bet in the next period. We know that participation in the SFO gives better school performance, and that it's an important social arena for the children. We also know that self-payment leads to exclusion. In Oslo, the schools have the lowest participation in the SFO, which has the largest share of students – up to 90 pst. in fact – with the need for specific support in Norwegian under the Training Act. When you have many children and low income, costs become a clear barrier. Sending the children to the activity school costs a lot of money for these families. So I'll say a little bit about child protection. Municipal child protection is now given the greatest promise of 20 years. Soon we will come up with a big message and a proposition on how to further strengthen child protection, where cooperation with other agencies and ensuring children's participation and participation will be important. This Nav report states that persons who have taken child protection measures have a lower impact on all living conditions factors examined compared to persons with equal age distribution who have never received child protection measures. A very low proportion of former child-restraint children had higher education when they were 25 years old compared to the rest of the population. Only 8 pst. was in higher education, compared to 40 pst. in the basis of comparison. Children’s protection children with parents who were long-term beneficiaries of economic social assistance had a lower level of education than other children’s protection. The report underlines the need for better cooperation between the Nav Office/social services, child protection and health services to combat social inequalities. Supervision has revealed significant failures and a risk of failure in the provision of children and young people. We're following this up, and I'm glad we're doing well. We must take the women's perspective if we are to be able to develop an effective policy against poverty, not least child poverty. In families with only one caregiver we find in 90 pst. of the cases of women. They tend to have worse working and pay conditions than men. Both this fact and the fact that so many minority families in the low-income group have mothers who are not at work suggest that we cannot design a gender-neutral policy. We know that seemingly gender-neutral measures on as highly-sexed arenas as the family and the working life seem to be completely different for women and men. We must bring this with us, whether we are discussing transfers, social benefits, temporary employment, professional organisation or full-time and part-time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1087	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought on many points was very exciting and uplifting. I want to start with the exclusion perspective. I think it's very important to raise it. I myself had the pleasure of meeting some from the Red Cross, who have arranged summer camps that have had meaning. They told me of one of those who had been there, that he had been so busy getting a brochure from the hotel he had offered. The organizers couldn't quite understand that, but if he didn't bring it home again, none of the friends would believe that what he told me he had experienced this summer was true. It's a perspective that's part of a whole thing. I agree with what the Council says, that ensuring that we have a working life that includes the most possible is the best tool. And when we look at Norway as a society, we have good welfare arrangements and a tax system that contribute to small income differences in Norway compared to other countries. I see that the Council of State is talking about a lot of concrete measures, but one of the areas I'm concerned about is the increase we have among people with reduced working capacity. We see that numbers have increased from 153,000 to 215 000 from 2006 to 2011, and the Nav report People with Disabilities – Who are they?, also points to this, but at the same time, the level of action for this group has fallen in the last four to five years by 53,000 places. So it's just raising the level of action according to what the State Council said about the integrity of the groups. I shall not proceed to a cash support debate. My point is that the cash support has reached a group that has had low revenues, and it is not necessarily that cash support withdrawals cause them to come to work from day one. It's a challenge. If I'm going to give a challenge to the Council of State, it's: we see that many of the general measures are good, and we can be a few about them. But does the Council of State agree that there is a greater need for targeting efforts, and what action does it want to take in that area? There is a question that I have left hanging in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1105	Let me start by saying that I'm glad that we have a fairly similar perception of reality. I agree with Mr Hareide that we need both the general instruments and the more targeted ones. It's not like you're just taking support from people, like, for example. the cash support, they will automatically get a job. There may be many barriers that make it not that easy. In particular, I'm concerned with the immigrant women. How can we ensure that the most important experiences we have had with women's liberation and gender equality in Norway – that is, getting their own income and freedom – can also become part of immigrant women? I would like us to discuss this, but also to put forward more instruments in the context of the communication on integration and in the context of the next year's budget. That's my ambition. I then pointed to this measure called a New Chance, which is outreach activities specifically targeted at women such as women. have benefited from cash support. But we see that an extra effort is required to reach part of those women and that they will also have the opportunity to support themselves. Then it is not always about what is often said, namely that we should get them to work. It's about organizing. We don't have to have a top-down perspective or a victim approach, but rather make sure that we're inclusive in the way we approach the problem. I think it's also important for what kind of results we achieve. Another example of targeted work is on child protection. We know that children who have been in child protection often have much worse odds to deal with later. And we have a lot of work that we have to do, and which we're also going to do now through the big message and the proposition that is going to come, which is about, for example. tearing down fences between different bodies that have a responsibility, but are currently cooperating too poorly, and I also pointed it out in my main post. So this with education: we know that getting high school, and standing through it, is incredibly important for what kind of opportunities you get later. Then the fight for increased implementation begins already in kindergartens. That's why kindergartens are so important. Then it's about several hours, homework, it's about more freedom of choice and practice in youth, so that more people can get motivation to stand out. Then we have New GIV, and we also have what is called the LUS project, which is under my department. I would also like to mention the Nightingale, which is a separate mentoring measure for people who are going to train as child protection educators.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1118	Creating jobs and combating unemployment will always be the primary protection against poverty. Einar Gerhardsen said it this way: The worst thing about poverty is the feeling of being unwanted. We know that children growing up in poverty have more opportunities to remain poor. Our new fellow citizens, mentally ill, drug addicts and families with only one income are among those who primarily make up the poor in our society. Children who grow up in poverty often also struggle with other social problems. Therefore, the discussion on poverty is not a debate on income alone, although it is also important. As important as economics, giving people tools to master the life you've been given. We shall be proud of the security network we have established in Norway. Whether it's a day-to-day allowance for those who lose their job, a decent disability, or a transitional benefit for lonely dependants, this helps to provide important income protection for the poorest in our society. It's hard to fall outside a society with as many opportunities as we find in our country, especially in the schoolyard, where the status of wearing certain clothes, with brand clothes, and having the right things, is helping to make it extra visible if you can't afford the exact same things. One thing is income, but another is having the tools you need to create yourself a good life. When we know who the poor are, and the children, it may also be obvious to us all that we need to invest in the social infrastructure that makes it possible for even more people to believe in themselves. Governments have been in the custody of their children. The fact that we continue to escalate further into the Child Protection Lift is absolutely necessary. Also in the follow-up page, when the children's children become adults, we see that many fall through. It's about a drug treatment that can help and give families the opportunity to master the life they've been given. It is about making sure that young people can get early help by expanding their school health services. These are the leisure clubs, which should be a safe place to belong and experience mastering. We may also need to focus more on social follow-up at our leisure clubs. In the workplace, employee organisations do a fantastic job of ensuring that we have decent income development for all groups, continue to work with a strong level of organisation, more trust elected, and ensure that we ensure respect for honest, hard work. People who are at work in the course of a day will have enough income to live off and support themselves and their own children. But in the knowledge society, which is emerging, everyone must also have the opportunity of knowledge not only when going to school. We know that many people fall out of school, but we also need to have the opportunity to move on in the workplace — with a genuine continuing training reform in the broad sense that allows everyone to gain knowledge that is needed in the future. The debate on banning begging also tells something about what place it is to be poor and ask for help in public space. I think it's a paradox in the debate that it's free for anyone to beg and you can have credit cards with you every time you go through our parade street, while there are some political forces that don't want the poorest of us to have the same opportunity. We cannot fight poverty by fighting poor people. We have to bear to see it in our eyes. Social inclusion can take place not only in a Nav office, but in our own meeting with people who fall outside for various reasons. Many who live in poverty have given up their seas. That's exactly why it's important that we meet people with positive expectations. It's amazing what we can do if we have faith in ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1133	Thanks to the interpellant for a very important interpellation. It is a pity that once again there must be a debate on child poverty in our country. The challenges have increased in recent years, which is particularly unfortunate. The kids are the girlfriend we have. I'm sure that all parents have a genuine desire to do the best for their children, but they don't have the resources to have a good life for their children. One thing is the families of children who, over a given period of time, may have it in mind. They see that only one gets over a few knuckles, is one on the right track, it's work or education that leads to permanent work, and once again stable economy. Governments were concerned about local cash support. Yeah, I'm also worried about that, because there's something about the economy that one has like a calculated, stable economy, that then disappears, we have plenty of kindergartens, but the funding is in negative, and as long as it's in negative, we local politicians worry about whether those who have a cash support to keep going on are going to be allowed to have it until that funding is in place. That's just what we're asking for, nothing else. The means to avoid poverty is work, work that makes a person have a fixed income, income that makes a person manage and have a good life. But the group that is really tired is a family of children who are still struggling economically. The research shows that experiencing poverty in growing up helps children to have poor prospects as adults. If you are a poor child, you are more likely to be poor yourself. In fact, poverty is inherited. Young children often need small pleasures that cost little to have a valuable everyday life. In a survey of 8 000 people involved, it was said that the good people who were most important in the standard of living for children of school age were going on birthdays with gifts, having birthdays on their own, participating in organized leisure activities and having their own bike – actually not so much to ask for to get a sense of a better life. But this is obviously hard for us to get into society today. Although the Nordics do not necessarily consider poverty to be anything but a lack of fundamental good as food, clothing and shelter over their heads, the experience of children is different. Child poverty is not just about social distress or lack of consumer goods, nor about comparing it with the richest, but about the experiences that children have in everyday life, what they lack in comparison with the children they live with, whether they are in kindergarten or school. Children of poor families cannot participate in the same arena as those who have more to route with. This often causes these children to be lonely, and they are excluded from completely elementary growth-in-growth, which they take with them in adult life. Therefore, all possible measures in childhood against these children are incredibly important. We also need to be clear that many do not experience their poverty as a major problem, but do what they can from their own resources. We must not forget these things either. What becomes different is that these are often very open about their challenges. They have confidence in others, and they dare to be open. We who may have more to route with show them respect. They accept the legacy of clothes for their children. They shop when they need furniture. They say straight out that my daughter or my son can't participate in it and that activity because we can't actually afford it. It's unlikely what one gets back. Obviously, if you know someone who's having a hard time, who wants to be open about his situation, people make up. Here they do an incredibly good job, which the Progress Party is very busy supporting. As one of the sports team said, we know that parents can't afford to pay the quota, so that good people can join the football, but we won't let him out for that reason. We're just not sending the bill. Or the example of a girl who, at times, would not come on the birthday of classmates: Then a contact took place to ask if it was possible to arrange the birthday of that girl with the other girl, without any requirement for gifts or cakes. Sometimes it's good for us who have resources, to show that it's possible to do something for others, even in a way that doesn't make one feel hurt, but has a goal of including. I think it's a lot to get from both public and private initiatives when it comes to those who struggle, but there must be openness that goes both ways. It is clear that small communities have a better starting point than larger communities. But the big cities and towns might learn a lot from the small ones when it comes to being close and caring. What I want is more openness, more volunteering, more child-responsiveness, because she's been at home for 16 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1169	Child poverty is about two main entrances in the discussion, I mean. One – and most importantly – is that we must make sure that there are fewer poor parents, that we are working against and combating poverty by all the means we have. The second perspective is how we relate to the children who are now in that situation. It's no less important, because they also want to counter the social heritage that we unfortunately often see in families. As far as combating poverty is concerned, we are all concerned. Right-wing policy in this area should be known from other debates as well. We're busy keeping on the line of work. We're concerned that it's worth your while to work. We're busy with all the grips that make people want to seek out the client role and into saving themselves. We need measures to help people who are out of work, to get inside. It's important to have a good targeting of these. In our alternative budgets, we have proposed more money for wage subsidies, more money for work with assistance and more money for measures to help disabled people out in the labour market. However, when we have children as a starting point, it is important that we pay attention to the measures specifically aimed at children’s situation. The right-hand side proposed 26 million. extra in local poverty policies, targeting poor children. Unfortunately, the government voted against this proposal, but we hope that there will be better scope for targeted action towards this group later on. We have also proposed increased appropriations to ensure lower parental benefit in the kindergarten for families with low incomes, and we are in favour of free kindergarten for everyone participating in the introduction programme, and increased support for Norwegian education. This is a theme that has been discussed by previous speakers. But some children are poor in the sense that they live in poor families. The government we now have has demonstrated to us – through politics – that, unfortunately, we have to assume that some are poor. Despite too high cigars at the entrance to the government period, we see that the number of poor children has increased. So this is not something we can count on to control 100 pst. Children identify with their parents. Children are incredibly loyal to their parents. Children in poor families don't have enough extra sports equipment, they don't have to raise that question. Children in poor families quietly choose the measures that cost, the activity that they know costs, in loyalty to the family in which they live. Therefore, it is important that we find mechanisms that both have a low threshold at cost and where we are also asked for the children we are now talking about. I think volunteering has great opportunities in this. In addition, the Right of the Ministry of Children and the Family proposed a budget of 10 million years ago. kr – there is not much but there could have been a start – to quotas for targeted participation measures. This is money that Nav could have, and especially wants that kind of activity, and especially point to the need for that kind of activity. I think the most important thing we could do is try to create a climate right around that. How do we pass the threshold of children choosing the expensive offers themselves? How do we make sure that there are inclusive offers that actually bring these children into activity, and how to raise an offer at a low economic threshold, but that also invites much wider participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1190	Peter Townsend stated in 1979 that poverty is a social phenomenon that needs to be studied in the light of the standard of living that is common in society — in short, because of a lack of resources it is excluded from the usual patterns of life, habits and activities. It is this that lies in relative poverty, and that children in poor families still feel: being excluded. We've heard that both the Council of State and the interpellant have been involved in the past. Several research reports show that there is a link between poverty and poor health. The more negative life experiences a child or youth experiences, the greater the risk of heart disease, cancer, chronic lung disease, depression and adult suicide — a serious personal problem, and a social problem. At a time when political Norway seems to struggle to be the hardest against the poor, it is both important and right that we take this discussion here in the United Kingdom. That's why I thank the interpellant for raising the question. Many people experience bad advice during periods. There's a lot of relationships that contribute to it. We have a housing sector where profit has become more important than securing enough houses for people. I believe that one of our biggest political tasks in the years to come is to secure us against housing bubble and at the same time to take control of the market. We have an increasingly changing working life and growing demands for social skills and mental health. Many people don't get a job, and some people can't handle the work we've been given. At the same time as employers in this way recruit narrower and narrower – only those who provide 100 pst. get a job – they use the same employer page, with the NHO at the head, every opportunity to get rid of welfare schemes. To put it another way, it's the same people who refuse to hire people who are struggling or need extra facilities to do a solid job, who complain the most about people getting disability benefits or other benefits. The right-hand side creates a spiral where the consequences of their own policies are the argument for cutting welfare. There are some groups that are overrepresented in the low-income group in Norway: there are lone dependants and ethnic minorities are exposed to poverty. Unemployment is the main cause of poverty, and low education is the main cause of unemployment. It's child poverty that's the worst. Kids have the right to participate. So the first thing we have to do to combat child poverty is get parents to work. Those who do not know Norwegian need to be helped to learn it. Safety and qualification must be provided for those who have been far from working life. We have to work for a solid child protection system, and that is what we are doing, cf. the State Council has also been involved in both its main posts and follow-up posts. We need decent benefits, children's supplements to get kids to participate, as well as cheap SFOs and kindergartens. Here, the inter-pellant and the Council of State have been involved in several of the same measures, which we clearly agree are important. Then we also have to have a school that balances the social differences. We still need to stop the privatisation of schools that will only contribute to segregation and differences, and we need to reduce the drop-out, so that fewer fall out of the labour market due to lack of skills and/or mastery experience in the past. Of course, the debate on poverty reduction must focus on concrete actions that can be put in place, and we have had many examples of this, but it must also be about discussing fundamental perspectives, such as human vision, human rights and social views. And here I have to admit that I find it somewhat paradoxical that the Christian People's Party chooses to cooperate with the right side. The Christian People's Party will cooperate with parties who believe that more poverty is the medicine against poverty, who believe that tax havens for the rich are good medicine, who fight for greater differences, and who believe that repeated attacks on those who have the least, bring something good with them. These are – and I would like to remind you of the Christian People's Party – parties that seriously believe that a law ban on asking their next for help should be imposed. And we see it from the Oslo City Council statement: the poorest are not exactly priorities. Those of the parties who want to fight poverty must stand together on this – and there I am absolutely extending a hand to the Christian People's Party – but it is clear that the answer cannot be more privatisation, more bans and more symbolism policies that only hit the poorest. We need policies that work. We must have a strong welfare state that can ensure a high level of well-being, we must have a better local economy, we must have safe and decent benefits, and not least we must have respect for the fact that people – all of us – can get into a difficult situation where they need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1216	First, thank you to the interpellant who put a very important issue on the agenda. In international terms, Norway is a society of small differences. We have a tax system that contributes to relatively limited income differences. But even in the kingdom of Norway, there are many children, and many more than what is visible, who experience poverty, and who live in what is called poor families. There are families with children who don't have money for what everyone else takes as a follow-up, and who don't take it as a follow-up, for example. hot food for dinner every day. There are children who get isolated from normal social activities that they cannot participate in because it costs too much for parents. It's also children who are actually poor in health. We know that we have significant social health differences in Norway, where children from poor families are at risk of poor health in the future. That's why this is a very important work. The most important thing we can do in the fight against child poverty is to continue to have good universal arrangements in Norway, as the distribution message took up, and to continue working for a society of small differences. In addition, we need to use the knowledge we have about the types of families and children who are at greater risk of child poverty than others. We know today that single carers, multi-child families and immigrant families are highly represented in poverty statistics. To these, we may also have targeted measures. I think that instead of taxing and questioning child welfare, which is still coming up for discussion, she should be strengthened as a general scheme. I'm very busy with free leisure activities as one example of a system that seems wide without being directly stigmatizing. Cash support was discussed here. I disagree that we should say that cash support is a poverty trap. I think she works both ways, and I agree with Hareide that too many people want cash support to be a very important contribution to the total family economy there and then. At the same time, it is well known that there may not be families with the smallest children who have the greatest challenges. We might want to be equally busy with the income of families with children over the age of cash support. I also agree that cash support and child welfare should not be included in the calculation of social benefits, as I feel one has done in Bergen. It is a measure that can directly cause families to increase poverty. I was aware that child poverty also means being poor when it comes to health. We have social health differences in Norway. I have spoken warmly about arrangements such as fruit and green in the school. We know that the system of subscriptions to the children's balls today actually reinforces social health differences, because we know that it's the resources that have the money to add fruit to the frenzy. Expanding this scheme to a full base is an important measure of poverty. It is also an important health measure. I'm busy getting more physical activity into the school. We know that participation in organised sport also follows income levels and not reaches everyone equally. Participation in organised sport is also seen as following the level of education and income of parents. This is something the sports message we are about to present needs to focus on. In the end, I would like to refer to something that was in Bergen's Official Journal this weekend, about the purchase press for children and young people today. Nine out of ten parents in Hordaland report that they think we grew up buying too much for the children, and that parents themselves are being pressured to buy. It is clear that relative poverty is affected by this. We all, both politicians and parents, have a responsibility to be good role models, and that one – from birth onward – does not buy everything that can give status, but that one has a watchful eye on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1236	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for an important interpellance and an important opportunity to discuss child poverty here in Stortinget. I would like to thank him for a very good contribution, but also others for good contributions that have been made in the debate. Several have recalled the important perspective that children are excluded as a consequence of poverty, that children are excluded, and that children are loyal to their parents and the last to remember that they would like to go to football training or be allowed to travel in a birthday etc. I think it's an important perspective to include in the debate. At the same time, I have to say that the debate reminds me that we politicians are good at using big words. If you look at the realities – and then, of course, I am talking first and foremost to representatives of the government parties – the starting point for the debate is to point to the figures. Compared with the years 2006–08, there are now 6,500 more children growing up in poor families. I would therefore like to say that the consequences of the red-green policy are not necessarily as positive as they appear in the debate. My claim is that one has been too busy lubricating thinly beyond everyone, instead of targeting the measures, for the children growing up in poverty, need more than good words from a debate like this. It is therefore important to target action against the groups that need it. Several have been concerned with who is particularly vulnerable, whether it is about getting good integration, getting early work, succeeding in school and education, getting a job, etc. It really just shows the spectrum – that the measures apply to all fronts. I also find it exciting to hear the approach of the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion, because we are used to discussing poverty with the Minister for Labour. I think there were many useful perspectives there. But I want to remind you of what the Minister of Labour always says: Work is the way out of poverty and the key to getting people out of it. That doesn't mean we won't work for good benefits for those who fall outside, because there are some people who can't work. I fully agree with the Council of State that, for example, The dissatisfaction – which we got a good deal of agreement on – is absolutely crucial to securing the people who are out there. But getting even more people back to work and making them stay at work is one of the most important things. Therefore, measures to prevent people from falling into social security are one of the most important and meaningful things we can do to prevent children from growing up in families with poverty. It is about making Nav work better, it is about — as Mr Hareide was about — the measures for those with reduced working capacity who are about to lose their jobs, it is about a policy that helps even more people to get away from social security and get into work. I also believe that the debate around, for example. social assistance is essential. The Qualification Programme is a good measure — a good example of activating people who have gone on social assistance for a long time. In the debate on, for example: compulsory employment for social welfare recipients, I think the government parties and the Christian People's Party made a good suggestion that some people obviously cannot work. You have to give an offer, and I really want to say that's what this is all about: the municipalities have to give an offer to young people who, in many municipalities, go on social assistance, not because they don't want to work, but they just end up outside and need help to come back. Targeting such measures is absolutely necessary. So I am very sincere that when representatives from SV say that they would like to meet the Christian People's Party, I will show that there is something the Christian People's Party has done during this period – and earlier also – it is precisely to give a hand to the government and say that now we must end the rhetorical debate that there have become more poor, etc. Specific measures need to be taken. That is why, at the beginning of the period, we had a thorough, wide-ranging proposal with eleven measures on a national response to poverty. The government chose to reject all actions and vote them down. It was targeted action, whether it was income upgrading of SFO rates and kindergarten rates, or it was a better offer for drug users and those with mental disorders, it was better provision for debt victims, free legal assistance, special measures aimed at children growing up in urban communities, free leisure arrangements, etc. – examples of good actions that I believe should have been put in place, which would have led to more people leaving poverty. That is why I also believe that the consequences of this debate today must lead to more concrete action. Because I hear what you're saying, and I can say that I agree with the statements, but when I look at the statistics and at the number of people living in poverty, I can't stand to see that it's followed up with action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1255	As we talked about a little earlier today, in another debate, with a slightly different committee present, many bold proposals have been adopted in this Chamber to bring people out of poverty – from one of the poorest countries in Europe 100 years ago to where we are today. Nevertheless, it does not mean that the fight against poverty has been won. It may not be won once and for all, but we should constantly stretch in this room to combat poverty. When the Left, 100 years ago, fought for a common school that everyone was supposed to be in, and for all the basic things – like eight-hour working days and all the steps that were taken to combat inequality in society – poverty was very linked to groups. Now poverty is acting in very different ways, even in groups that don't fit into the squares you draw when you draw social groups. There are immigrant families that do it very well. There are immigrant families working hard, because they have so many jobs. That doesn't mean they're cut out. I live, for example. on the east side of one of the poorest districts in all of Norway, Old Oslo — but also in one of the urban areas where young people use the least of the drugs. There are no clear similarities that say that just that and there is, you face poverty. No, I face poverty in many families, for example. jobs, but it does not, however, link up because of a housing market. There are many reasons why we end up with the problems we have, and therefore it is also harder to believe that the big, general grips should help everyone. So I think that being poor today is actually socially worse than it was before, because in societies with great social mobility it seems to be poor as being failed. But in a society with low social mobility, you're poor because you were born like that. So in the old peasant community as when my father was born a housekeeper's son, no one told me that he was born a housekeeper's son as a person. Suffering if a boy was born on the largest farm in the village, he could be a bastard anyway. So it has nothing to do with your abilities, it doesn't say anything about your personality -- it doesn't say anything about anything, that you were just born into a position in the old days. Today, with so much social mobility, one is branded in a completely different way from what was left in the poor peasant society on which we are based. Poverty among children is the most unfair thing we can imagine, because they've never done anything to get where they are. Then we can talk about work, and we can talk about a lot of other things, but often children who live in poor families experience this as very unfair, and as something they haven't done anything to experience. That's why I think combating child poverty is the most important thing. And that's why I think this was an important and good interpellation. I think it's important to reach these groups that we give room for the good solutions, which are also made entirely on the ground level – like when Stavanger makes a pool with sports equipment, tents and skis and all that, and makes it so simple that a teacher can just call and come and pick it up when you're going to school, or that a family can only come in and borrow some fishing rods and a tent if they need it for a weekend. These systems are being reduced so far, so unbureaucratic and so low in stigmatizing that many have opportunities. We in the Left have put forward a lot of suggestions, we. In our alternative budget, we proposed 2.3 billion in the previous budget. to combat poverty, especially among children. When the government submitted the distribution notice, we made 25 proposals to do something about this. And then SV can stand and say that you want to cooperate with the others, and fi and shame you, but we'll actually work together to get to some things. It is possible that someone has an outstretched hand. I haven't noticed much about it. All of the 25 proposals made by the Left in connection with the distribution message were voted down with brash and bram, almost without anyone bothering to argue against them. All the proposals we have made in alternative state budgets have been voted down with brash and bram without anyone really wanting to argue against them. Yes, sail such obvious things as social aid rates, or obvious things like that. To do something about VAT on fruit and vegetables would have been much more effective to prevent the class distinction in the food way than what you do in school with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1272	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for putting this issue on the agenda in the storeroom. It's a very important topic, and I'm very happy for every time someone focuses on children's needs and growing-up conditions. Being poor is not a good starting point for neither childhood nor adulthood, but I would also say – and there has not been so much trend towards this in the debate today – that being poor is not like being weak, poor or victim. Being poor is about how children feel, not how children are. It's an incredibly important reminder to us when we're going to discuss this. Stigmatizing all poor children as victims, weak, lonely and poor does not lead to anything good. It is the consequences of poverty that can lead to those situations. In addition to not being able to do many things, often the shame of the poverty that the shadow follows the sun. Work is the main means of preventing families and children from falling outside. That is why I am pleased that this government has steered the whole nation safely through the crises that have hit other countries. There, children's poverty rates look completely different in today's society. The working party wants everyone to be in it. We do not want children and young people to be stigmatised and left to themselves. Therefore, we will use the Community’s funds for children and young people rather than for tax havens to be financed by a tougher social policy – as the Right continues to advocate. For example, the propulsion party cuts. - I think it was 2 billion. kr, that is not a small amount – in the sick pay budget. At the same time, we know that many of the children who live in poverty are actually the ones who have sick parents, and who must be gone long and often. Children in the Nordic countries are at lower risk of poverty than children in the rest of Europe. Sweden has the highest risk among the Nordic countries, and we see our redistribution policy working. There has been a more steady trend in income in recent years, and differences in household income have decreased. The Progress Party and the Right want a completely different economic policy, but our redistribution policy is working. But we are not in goal – we have to move on. We want to bring down the proportion of poor children who live with poor finances. The working party wants more children to have access to activities, regardless of their parents’ finances. We know a lot about those who are struggling most as a result of poor economy and poverty. Families are far from the labour market, which have a long history of social security and social welfare schemes at working age, and they have parents who are struggling with alcohol and parents in prison. Seeing children’s needs is essential in order to take action. During this government period, several important legal provisions have been put in place that require personnel to assess the needs of their children — the Health Personnel Act, the Law on Special Health Services, the Law on Social Services in Nav — and work is being done to ensure that criminal justice is provided. The last law in place is the Public Health Act. Children are not specifically mentioned in that law, but its follow-up will be incredibly important in monitoring and recording the challenges of children in each municipality. In addition to many of the measures that the Council of State and several of the other representatives who have made contributions here today have pointed out – as I also support – that each municipality should ask itself: How many children do we have in our municipality with parents in prison? How many children have parents who are being treated for serious drug addiction? Perhaps municipalities were going to draw up contingency plans in order to initiate early action. Early effort is what works. We need better cooperation, more research and follow-up in the municipalities. It adds up to the Interaction Reform. But I want to warn against stigmatizing instruments. I have read that there have been issued maps of municipal stamps and maps of stamps from non-governmental organisations that can be refunded in activities. I think that's wrong. It must be neutral short, so that the children do not show that they come from a particular class or group. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party in Kristiansand had a very good cooperation on poverty measures during the last city government period. It was a little bit like the representative Skei Grande had in mind, there were measures that were not earmarked, that are out in schools, and that teachers and nursery workers themselves can use when they see that there are children who are unable to participate, or who have economic problems. Then I want to end up with a little party policy. I think that if the Christian People's Party is thinking of ruling with the two parties that want to go in a completely different direction – and I don't agree with the Roppstad assessment that it is kline's thin side, it can actually be that we take responsibility for the whole – I think that – with the meat weight and with all respect for the party – the Christian People's Party will have more impact by looking two, the Workers' Party and the government than on the right side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1300	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the sincere commitment I know that both he and his party have for people who are disadvantaged. It is no secret that there is disagreement about the approach to poverty policy in Norwegian policy. It has been there all along and is visible whether you are looking at one or the other government option. It's about some of the tools that are primarily related to the workline. I choose to be open about it, because it is a reality that several parties believe that instruments that are going to reduce the benefits of those who are out of work and poor are a contribution to the line of work. I will then present this report that has been mentioned here, which is the 2010 annual report from the Nav Sea, which has gone through all the social policy instruments. What they conclude is that taking income from people who are not at work but who live on benefits does not help people to get into work. It seems the opposite. People are becoming more excluded, more vulnerable and lose confidence in the future. This is about the convergence of proposals, but also about the convergence of words. And it's about how the political debate goes, how to talk about people who have difficult lives, but also how to meet them in government. There I would like to draw up another report which I believe is quite alarming. It is a 2010 Health Authority report, which was the first monitoring of the social services in Nav, i.e. social assistance. Now this is in Nav, but it's still in the municipalities. This report has the very eloquent title The municipalities are violating the law in the case of requests for financial support. There are 50 municipalities that have been investigated, in 45 of them there are quite serious violations of the law, and in three of the other municipalities there are also offences. I should not say that there are no people in these municipalities who have received good help – they may well have. But what's serious about this report is that this is the security network for those who don't have anything. There it turns out that you don't go into the application, you don't help people get the application organized, so you get to see what the problem is. It turns out even in many places that you don't ask if there are children in your family. When we dealt with the new Law on Social Services in Nav, a unanimous increase in regard to the families of children was at the top. It says not only to help people in an acute situation, but to help them out of an emergency situation, but also to facilitate a community that does not contribute to poverty and exclusion. This is important, because this is the responsibility that lies in the municipalities today. I get very worried when this isn't being taken care of, because here I see that the Storting is completely in agreement that you should do this, and then you don't. Now, when we're discussing social assistance-related activity obligations, etc. – yes, there are opportunities for it today, within what makes sense. Then I would like to refer to a third report, which is the function study, which was carried out by the University of Oslo in 2007. It shows that people on social welfare are on average healthier than people who have been granted disability benefits. Then the debate on whether or not to force people into work by letting them live on 70 kroner a day – or what some parties think – becomes completely unreasonable. This possibility lies there today. Why don't you do it when it works when you do it well? You kind of have to force everyone into work, while you know that these are actually very sick people. There's an incredible number of things I could think of saying about this, but I'm very concerned that we're now also sticking our finger into the earth as to how some of these people are doing. Many of them are actually sick, many of them will need income for a long time before they are able to enter the labour market, and many of these people have children. We must then help to ensure that this debate is about the revenue that people have today – when they do not have work – not to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1315	A lot has been said in this debate, and I think there is a broad consensus that the path out of poverty is about the greatest possible adult being at work. The Progress Party has been criticised in the past – in the context of the 2011 budget, when we proposed to reduce the transitional aid to one year, to require activity after one year. Then we heard how cynical we were, how wrong this was, and how this would affect the poor lone mothers if there was a requirement for activity after one year. One year later, the government parties propose the same thing, and now we see the results. The SSB show that this was right – many more of the lone mothers get into activity earlier. I assume that the government parties will also come after the Progress Party, at least the Right Party, or the other opposition parties, which make stronger demands for activity for those who receive social contributions. It has been said many times that many people are very far from working. If someone tells you that you're a long way from working, they say, in other words, we don't expect much of you. The Progress Party believes that demands and expectations must be made for people, that they must be able to cope with themselves. Poverty is inherited, and that is because there are too few demands, and there are too few opportunities for those who are out of work. Having expectations of those who receive social benefits is helping them to get a better life. Then it's also that in very many of those who receive social security benefits, it doesn't benefit the children. It doesn't just help to raise the social benefits, because there's no automatic way that social benefits give children a better life. Many people don't have good governance on their own economy, and they need financial guidance – this is something I think needs to be a school subject. It's something quite different to manage your economy today than it was 50 years ago, and for many it's very difficult. Many people end up in poverty just because they do not have control of what they get from money, nor can they use it in a good way. Work training is important, and the Advance Party believes that it is important to make it easier to get a job even in the ordinary working life. Many young people fall out. We also suggested that young people be given work training by not attracting their parents to social assistance. So there's a lot that can be done. I suppose you agree with the purpose that no one should live in a poor family, but it's also that you can't really expect a family with five to ten children to have the same economy as families with one and two children. So the Progress Party is not afraid to make demands and expectations that you take responsibility in your own life, and we also believe that politicians have to do that largely. You have to have faith in people, you have to give people opportunities, but you also have to be able to make demands, and that's where we differ a little – when it comes to making demands. So it shouldn't be very, very sick people who live by social assistance over time. Very, very sick people should be dissatisfied. It has to be clarified much faster, and it is not a matter of having a disability if you are to be able to work. It is important for everyone to be able to get faster processes there, to get ahead in the systems, so that you don’t go and wait for a new response for many months when you’ve been through one action. There are many children who suffer from being in poor families, and it is not just to ask about increased social assistance and social security payments. It doesn't necessarily help the children. So I expect the government parties will come after us with much of what we in the Progress Party have proposed. But it's kind of comical to be almost scattered here on the pulpit for the one year, when the government parties come right away as a good move the next year and we also see results of it. So I hope you can come faster after also with the other suggestions!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1334	I want to thank you for a very good debate, for the many very good articles. It has not been a stigmatizing debate, which Kari Henriksen pointed out in a good way. This has been a clear and good debate, and it has also been an honest debate. I think Karin Andersen just pointed out how we can get more into the labour market, what we need to do to close it down, and what the tool is to get to it, is unlikely to be important. Tomorrow, the revised national budget will come, and online leaks indicate that AS Norway is going even better than expected. It is in itself very good and positive, but now we know that in this field it is still going in the wrong direction. This is not something that has happened in the last few years, but it has happened in the last ten to twelve years. We know that it went in the right direction in the 1990s, while the last decade has been negative. That's why it's very important that we get started and look at how we can target the public effort even more in order to improve the life situation of very many individuals. I want to challenge the minister for her responsibility, as his child minister, has. When we know that the number of those with reduced working capacity is increasing, and that the measures for that group have fallen, it is an important challenge that I want to address. We also have a new minister in the field, and I hope that this minister will see this task as one of its most important. It is not a simple task, but an incredibly important task – to ensure that poverty among children in Norway goes down. I thought it was very nice that the representative Kjersti Toppe, as a member of one of the government parties, just pointed out, that the cash support is not a poverty trap. I was pleased with that clarification. The social assistance problem has been up here. I also think we have to raise this and see that just a shortening of social assistance for these families is going to be wrong, both when it comes to cash support and other statements. My challenge to the Council of State is: If this is one of its most important tasks, it will be very good. It's not a simple task, it's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1349	Yes, this will be one of my most clearly important tasks. I also see this in connection with the responsibility that I have in various areas. For example, integration policy is very much about this. We know that a large proportion of those who today have low incomes, and who can be called poor families, have immigrant backgrounds, they come from outside the OECD area. Many of them are families where mothers in particular do not work. Then it also helps to be an equality minister and have a responsibility for that perspective, and then make sure that we have the sex glasses on and see that what we're doing can look different depending on whether we're talking about women or men. In addition, I am responsible for much of the protection of discrimination against people with disabilities. There I also have an important role to play. The representative Hareide was seafaring about this in his post. When it comes to measures, I almost have to ask the representative to bring it up with the Minister of Labour. But it is clear to me that it will be essential that we make a targeted effort to facilitate that people with disabilities can also have the opportunity to support themselves through work. Then I'm responsible for child protection. It is also very important for us to be able to prevent its poverty, to ensure that we get in early enough, to help these children before the problems develop. That we also help children in child protection to get the opportunity to take education, to cope so that they stand closer to the labour market, is very important. So I just want to stress that I fully agree that work is the key to combating poverty, which the representative Ropstad was in. I underlined that in my article, but I also pointed out some dilemmas relating to the line of work that we must be aware of. We must not believe that just we cut into social benefits or benefits, people come into work automatically. On the contrary, it can contribute to more passivity, and that may not be the purpose. So a few comments to the representative Vigdis Giltun. I would say that there is a difference between the obligation of activity and the removal of an entire scheme like the transitional aid, which the Progress Party has wanted. You've even wanted to cut the qualifying aid, or you want to liquidate it. At random intervals, the Progress Party has also proposed that immigrants not be able to receive benefits provided to the other sections of the population – the majority population – or that the protection of the labour market should not necessarily apply to groups with a minority background. Then I believe that the party has to go along with itself to see if you have the right tools to combat child poverty. I think there have been many good posts here, and I believe the Christian People's Party and we agree very much. I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1364	Case No. So 6 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1378	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1392	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1398	The size should go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1451	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1461	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1469	During the debate, Mr Lien put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit an obliging escalation plan for new recruitment positions in the R & D system as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2013.’ [[sponsor, postdoctor and nutrition doctor]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1496	During the debate, Mr Lien put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to set up a scheme in which well-established research institutes can seek financial support in order to qualify for basic government funding. The aid should be of such size and duration as to allow the institution to be evaluated on an equivalent basis to institutions that already have such funding.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1519	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1527	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to make concrete proposals for the legal protection of freedom of expression and anonymity on the Internet.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1540	The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1553	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1560	In the case of cases Nos.7 to 8, the second case is the legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-14.ana.ud2310e1657	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
