ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e76	Honourable co-representatives! Former PAC Håkon Randal is dead – 82 years old. Håkon Randal was born in Eivindvik in Sogn and Fjordane. From his education he was a teacher, and after his master's degree in 1953 he had different teaching positions before he was employed as principal at the Bremne Youth School in Bømlo in 1965. Håkon Randal quickly became involved in politics and cultural life in Bømlo and Sunnhordland. He was, among other things, President of Bømlo Right and Hordaland Right. He was a member of the Right Central Government, and in the years 1980–1984 he was the first Vice President of the Right Primary Organisation. In 1963 he was elected to the Stortinget from Hordaland – a position he held for twelve years until 1985. His first two periods were Randal's member of the Church and Education Committee and quickly identified himself as one of the Right-lead school politicians with a strong commitment to ensuring quality in our education system. He was, among other things, Chairman of the Right School Policy Committee – and he was a member of the Right Group Board. In the period 1981-1985, Håkon Randal was Chairman of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee and a member of the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs. As a member of the Stortinget delegation to the Nordic Council, he was particularly concerned about strengthening the links between Norway and Iceland. He was Vice President – and acted as Vice President of Stortinget. In 1984, Håkon Randal was appointed County of Hordaland. He held this post for 14 years, until he retired in 1998. Both during and after the county term, Randal had a number of trusts. He was actively involved in the defence case and was president of the Norwegian Defence Association in the period 2001-2005. His other main interest was culture. He was one of the initiators of the church-historical games of the Moster and the millennial anniversary of Christianity in Norway in 1995. He was strongly involved in the establishment of Sunnhordland senior university and Senior Right in Hordaland and was the leader both places to his death. Håkon Randal was also living committed as a pensioner. He had an indelible willingness to act for the things he would have accomplished. He was an inspiration with great radiance and executive power. We thank Håkon Randal for his work and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e102	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Eirin Sund from 15 November until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Laila Thorsen, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under Eirin Sund's leave of absence, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates, Siv-Len Strandskog, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Siv-Len Strandskog is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e137	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e151	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e160	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good review of the challenges in Europe, many of which are our challenges. There is still much that gives good cause for concern, although much has been done to prevent the most serious consequences of the crisis and to rebuild a foundation for economic growth. The EEA – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his statement – has been the framework for our relationship with the EU over five major periods and six governments. The EEA Agreement will continue to be the basis for future periods and governments. It has served us well, as the government also states in the big news about the EEA Agreement and our other agreements with the EU. It is the only form of agreement between the EU and a neighbouring country that ensures that businesses compete within a common regulatory framework, which gives Nordics free access to a European labour market and which provides Nordics who reside in other European countries for parts of the year or permanently, with security to be treated as their own citizens. In the debate on rules that may be too poorly adapted to Norwegian circumstances, we must not forget the opportunities and rights offered by this agreement to Norwegian companies and people in 30 European countries. Nor should we forget that the agreement provides room for action in order to adapt the legislation, as we have achieved many times. We're still going to use that space of action when it's needed. Sometimes I think we forget the forces that drive the need for international cooperation. It is the global fabrication of the economies of countries that creates the need for common driving rules, agreements and cooperation structures between countries. It's not the other way around. When the economy is internationalised, policy must follow suit. That is what common legislation, agreements and cooperation are all about. It must be compulsory if it is to work. If we are to be able to choose and choose, other countries will have the right to do the same, and then it doesn't work. The dream of being outside to get away from the rules we don't like is far on the way an illusion. Whatever contractual relationship we may have with the EU, a country that sells more than two thirds of its goods and services to the internal market will have to comply with the standards and rules set for goods and services. No country, even outside the internal market, is allowed to sell one litre of chemicals in the European market that do not comply with the REACH Directive. Just as neither Japan nor South Korea can sell cars in Norway if they do not have seatbelts and airbags. Outside Europe, the major challenge is increasing unemployment. Here at home we need labour. Statoil recruits engineers in Spain. More than 100,000 have moved to us from Eastern European EU countries and fill jobs that would otherwise be available. It's positive. But it also creates challenges. We must ensure that they are treated as our own. We have to avoid social dumping. We have the power to do that now, within a common regulatory framework which essentially imposes minimum standards on working conditions. This raises the standard in many countries. That's good. The shorter the distance between countries, the weaker the basis for social dumping. Within the framework of the agreement, we have implemented 30 measures to combat social dumping and decent work. The threats to this policy do not come from the EEA Agreement. They come from a government where the Right Party and the Advance Party decide policy. Such a government would not stand up to social dumping in the way that the sitting government has done. The economic crisis and the high unemployment in many of the countries are creating ground for political currents we thought had been cleared up when democracy replaced the dictatorship on our continent. The Foreign Minister drew up Hungary and Romania. The situation is even more serious and worrying in countries outside, like Ukraine, not to mention Belarus. It is a reminder of the value of the cooperation developed in our part of the world, and a warning of what can be repeated if cooperation is weakened. No one can close his eyes to the stabilising role played by EU cooperation in the transformation of Europe from a war to a continent of peace, as the Nobel Committee also justified the Year's Peace Prize, while pointing to the importance of this cooperation in a period of crisis. It is an important perspective to include, even when the EU delegation to Norway tomorrow will indicate that 20 years have elapsed since the establishment of the internal market. The title is ‘Experiences and visions’ — experiences and visions — and those visions are important to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e190	We are pleased that the Foreign Minister made a strong defence of the EEA Agreement. This is reassuring, because when you hear some other representatives of the government parties, you can get the impression that the EEA Agreement is being wound up with still red-green governance. Now I believe that the type of rhetoric will be put away. At the same time, we are ready to discuss both the basis of the Treaty and, not least, individual directives, not to get rid of the agreement or to undermine participation in the internal market, but to have an agreement that is constantly up to date and relevant to today's challenges. We look forward to getting back to this in connection with the big message that has now been submitted. The main strategic focus of the government in foreign policy is the North. Nevertheless, this was not affected in the presentation as a topic in relation to the EU and Europe. The EU in the Arctic is about more than getting the EU into office as an observer in the Arctic Council, although it is also important. The interest of the EU and many European countries in the Arctic and the North is to be seen as an opportunity. Here there is a potential far beyond energy. In shipping, there are opportunities that need to be exploited in terms of e.g.: infrastructure. Minerals are another area where the European Commission has now defined some critical raw materials — and how to obtain them. This will affect us. Relevant EU research, transport and logistics programmes are particularly relevant to the development of the north. The question is whether we can imagine a strategic commitment between Norway and the EU, so that we can be in the process of pre-empting future EU programmes and making the EU more responsible in terms of demanding challenges and issues in the north. The fact that Europe is competitive is very much in our interest. It is therefore necessary to see whether we can find common strategies in key areas. The danger of the ever-existing European debate here at home is that it is either an up-to-date membership debate or we are digging into individual directives of varying importance. In addition to these debates, which will always be there, we need to be able to look at the challenges more broadly. Economic – and sometimes political – crisis in several EU countries is given great attention in the presentation, naturally enough. The challenge of the political crises is that we must always stress that there is no alternative to democracy and its institutions. Much can be done within the framework of the EU and the IMF, but nothing can be done other than to continue to give individual people political power through democratically elected institutions. In such crises, it can be seen that countries want to make use of national protectionist instruments to protect their own economies and jobs. It may be the best intentions, but history has taught us that economic nationalism brings very short-term benefits. We have often warned against protectionism as a result of the financial crisis, and we have experienced government support. Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre said on 4 November 2009 in Stortinget that: ‘Protectionism is no way out of today’s crisis. This is Norway's position also in the WTO, in the OECD, in EFTA and in our cooperation with the EU.' [[...]] And even if the EU and others do not always act equally against free trade, there should be no reason for Norway to introduce further protectionist measures. What economic crisis is Norway experiencing that we need to introduce new customs restrictions? If Norway doesn't have the power to fulfill promises of fighting protectionism, who in the world are we going to ask to do that? Europe is more than the EU, and we share the views of the Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding the development of our neighbours in the east. We need to be clear in our dialogue with all countries about conditions that we find unacceptable. It is of particular importance in relation to matters directly affecting bilateral cooperation in the Barents region and the Arctic. It is our view that good cooperation with Russia in many areas needs to be further strengthened, and we are looking forward to a possible free trade agreement. We believe that there is no alternative to close and constructive cooperation, and since we believe in economic integration as an instrument in the EEA, we believe that this is equally important in cooperation with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e214	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement, and not least for his recent contribution to clarifying the government's position on the basis of the EEA Agreement, at the latest during yesterday's Question Time. The right considers the EEA Agreement to be a solid foundation for the further development of the close relationship with our main trading partners and believes Norwegian politicians should work intently to improve our competitiveness rather than spread uncertainty about our main trade agreement. This is clearly reflected in our alternative state budgets. The right-hand steady course creates security for Norwegian business. Report. St. 5 for 2012–2013, or the EEA Communication, shows that the entire government is behind the EEA Agreement. But there is reason to ask yourself whether the government as such is actually behind the entire contract agency, and whether it will still do so, well after the 2013 decision – although I hope there is a problem we don't need to think too much about. There are signs that the opposite is true. In the newspapers we can read that there is a conflict within the government, not only about the use of the space for action, but also about the agreement itself. In recent times, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have, in clear order, been calling for a change in European policy. The centre party wants a more EEA-critical tone in the future. No to the EU position is clear, and was already seen at the presentation of the Alternative Report in March this year. They will have a termination of the EEA Agreement and the conclusion of a trade agreement, as established by their national meeting last weekend. The problem is that there is really no alternative for Norway. The only thing these two government parties achieve with their playouts is to create uncertainty for Norwegian business by wanting unrealistic forms of cooperation with the EU. And uncertainty is the latest Norwegian export companies need now as Europe is marked by the debt crisis and declining demand. But the scepticism of the EEA is also present in the Workers' Party and in the trade movement. The nomination campaign in the Workers' Party has shown that EEA champions are at risk of being rejected from the lists. A majority of delegates to the Spring LO Congress may be in favour of a requirement to remove employment issues from the EEA Agreement. Last year, the national assembly of the Labour Party adopted a veto against the EU's third postal directive, the LO opposed the temporary agency directive, and the forces in the LO are dissatisfied with the government's yes to the directive. On the right, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is pleased that he is now coming on the track and highlights the importance of our relationship with Europe and the EU. In the light of an interview with Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide in Today's Business Today, the paper writes: ‘Crystal clear from Ap: If the Central Party and SV do not leave the EEA Agreement, there will be no joint government after the elections next year.’ The chairperson of the EEA Committee of the Centre Party shall express its opinion in the same Article: ‘We recognise the basis of this government, but not the next.’ It will then be difficult to take seriously both the EEA resistance of the Centre Party and the SV without at the same time assuming that the two batches wish to leave the Government. ‘Handling room’ is a word that the government is using diligently in the European debate. It is important that the EEA Agreement is dynamic and coherent and that it provides us with a significant space for action – space for action to facilitate national restrictions on EU legislation, spaces for action to assess at an early stage the EEA relevance of the acts, to get on the road early in legislative development and to influence decisions. The Norwegian public inquiry Outside and within the Sejersted Committee, which takes this into account, concludes with the large picture that the Norwegian social form has continued since 20 years with the EEA Agreement. The area with a certain degree of conflict is still the agricultural area. Six governments and five majorities have been governed on the basis of the EEA Agreement. It is important for its citizens, for businesses and their employees, that we create predictability when it comes to our agreements with the EU. The question is what does the government add to the concept of ‘action spaces’. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to elaborate in his reply later on. It seems crystal clear that the concept is interpreted differently by the three governmental parties. When the Storting process dealt with the European Communication in 2006, there was a cross-political consensus that an early entry into the EU’s various processes to influence it. The problem is that the list of examples that have not happened is dangerously long. Norway makes a few recordings, and the recordings we make are often late in the process. Norway is not the driver we should be, we are a passive spectator, and we wait so long that we finally have one answer that must be given: yes or veto. Martin Kolberg is wrong. The Government is not only government incapacitated if the Centre Party and SV continue their attacks on the EEA Agreement. The passivity, the inconsistency and the internal disagreement have already rendered the red-green government incapacitated on European issues. It is important to debate Norway's agreements and interaction with the EU. The right is pleased that it is now coming, but I wish that this debate had taken place continuously since January, when the report of the Sejersted Committee was presented, and in the future. We look forward to discussing the key priorities and instruments of Norwegian European policy on the basis of the report of the Sejersted Committee, the many consultation sessions and the subsequent communication. On the right, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is pleased to address problems of human rights and democratic weaknesses in several European countries. In Belarus, Lukashenko’s dictatorship systematically suppresses all political opposition and shows a lack of or no willingness to respect fundamental human rights. Unfortunately, this last dictatorship of Europe is in danger of having a company. In its statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs concluded that the elections in Ukraine in October were largely in line with international standards, but that it still has major democratic challenges. That's not a good starting point for describing the situation. At this point, the Right considers that Norway should focus a sharper searchlight on one of the largest countries in the European continent. The head of the OSCE observer corps said that the democratic process in Ukraine has been reversed. The Council of Europe concluded that the Ukrainian people deserve better. On the right, Norway also lacks a stronger criticism of the lack of political transparency, liaising with oligarchs, the use of money by governments, the role of the media and the wretched condition of the opposition. At the same time, I am pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regrets that the Ukrainian opposition politicians Julia Timoshenko and Juri Lutsenko did not participate in the elections. The right also regrets that they are still in prison, and that they have not been given the opportunity to appeal. It will be important to continue to focus on the situation in Ukraine and further work on the association agreement with the EU. On the same day as the government made its announcement to the Stortinget on Norway’s agreement with the EU, the news came that the Nobel Committee gave the EU Peace Prize for the Year. That's right. That's right. The prize is a tribute to the basic ideas that have guided European policy over 60 years – freedom, the rule of law and human rights. The EU as a peace project in post-war Europe is without historical parallels. The EU was a central element in the reunification of Europe after the cold war and the fall of communism. Today, the EU acts as a magnet in the Balkans, which sees security as the main driver of membership in the Union. The allocation is also an important signal for those who want to break down the values that have been built up over time, for those who want to renationalise and close Europe. I wonder if the government party of the Senterpartiet boycotts such a price and leave their assigned seats empty during the year's allocation. At the same time, I am pleased that so many from Europe and elsewhere in the world are coming to Oslo to fill Oslo City Hall. There is every reason to celebrate the Nobel Peace Prize this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e260	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. Yesterday we saw how European labour movement was concentrated in large-scale actions. The current crisis in Europe is caused by strong social tensions. It further triggers social tensions, where the outcome can either be enhanced cohesion between ordinary people who want to protect their professional and economic rights, or a development in which the abduction spreads, the belief in politics and democracy weakens and extreme forces get better footholds. Many have presented the loans given to the countries in crisis, such as solidarity, and only to people in need. In practice, however, loans with their conditions and political consequences are also an extraction of the economic problems of increasingly desperate people. Many governments have a policy of tightening up that makes it most difficult to start the growth needed to pay down the debt that has become insurmountable. When the purchasing power of ordinary people goes down and home, when hundreds of thousands of people lose their homes, and when almost all generations of my age become unemployed, the prospects of sustainable and solid economic growth are also much longer away. The Minister of Foreign Affairs concluded that the Norwegian model of working life is valuable and needs to be protected. Of course, I fully agree with that. There is no doubt that there are many trends in Europe that put this model under pressure, regardless of what you might think of EU membership or not. This unrest has led some trade unions both within the LO and outside the LO to take decisions to ensure that the EEA intervenes against Norwegian tariff agreements or statutory rights. These decisions have been presented from a number of quarters as a threat both to the red-green government project and to the interests of Norway. I understand that the right-hand side has reason to speculate in order to get the attention away from the big gaps between its own party and potential government partners, but there is no reason to worry about that. This is exactly the same requirement promoted by the trade union movement in Europe. Norwegian trade union movement looks towards Europe and stands with its comrades there. Having a debate on the EEA Agreement and space for action within the EEA Agreement is something that should be quite natural. Now the Right has almost announced that they are not going to be against anything that comes from Brussels. That is an honest approach, but politics is not. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark swung to the large heights of his post instead. He even said the government was incompetent. There are, of course, very strong words about a government that, on behalf of the people, has been sitting continuously longer than the Right itself has ever made clear, and that is an introduction to the debate that is not very constructive. In essence, it is difficult to understand the approach of the right-hand side in this debate, because what this government has done in the seven years we have ruled together is, of course, to agree on policies and use the space for action that exists in the EEA Agreement. Last week there was a heated debate on the tax on wealth in this country. The right then showed a strong and touching commitment to small businesses in the districts, but the differentiated employer fee has not been interested in ever discussing it, even when it was under pressure from Europe. It was this government that continued to ensure good framework conditions for Norwegian farms in the districts. When the right to return was put under pressure, it was this government that guaranteed our everybody's common ownership of the hydropower resources. The right now leans – as when the debate was over last time – towards a laissez faire approach, where the right to return is not so dangerous. Then there is reason to wonder whether it is the current government or opposition that spreads uncertainty about the important assumptions for Norwegian industry and industry. I think it is quite obvious that the values we have in common, in the ownership of our natural resources and the strong professional rights in Norway, are the main prerequisite for our competitiveness – which has also risen in the years of the red-green and not the right. What separates the blocks of Norwegian policy are political positions. There is a view of how to fence off the goods we have in Norway, built on community, welfare and joint ownership. These are values that the right side has traditionally been against. It gives them an introduction to the debate on Norway's unambitious space for action. Attempts to reduce the EEA debate to a game will not succeed, for this very reason: our government is bringing together the important issues. Citizens also agree, but they agree on policies that will not be as good for Norway. Right they say they want more European debate, but the debate we have, they don't want, because they say it spreads uncertainty. There is a reason why, all the time, right-wing representatives are present in this room who have themselves voted against the EEA Directives and – according to the logic of the representative Skovholt Gitmark – spread uncertainty about the framework conditions for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e283	Let me begin by saying that today the EU is our most important trading partner, and it is obvious to everyone that we are dependent on good, stable and predictable relations and agreements with EU countries and with the EU. Some of our closest neighboring country is a member. We are interdependent in Europe, and it is therefore obvious that we have a predictable and stable foreign and trade policy, not least on EU and EEA issues. I would like to stress that this applies regardless of the long-term and fundamental resistance of the Centre Party to Norwegian membership of the EU and to the EEA Agreement itself, including. as a result of the obvious democratic deficit in the EEA Agreement and the political organisation of the Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also points out that there are democratic challenges related to the EEA Agreement and that we have committed ourselves to the EU system defining which laws and arrangements should be allowed and not. My comment is that there is a democratic deficit throughout the EU system. The Member States have their democracy, but the common superstructure that the EU is is not democratically structured. The centre party has been in many governments, and we are now a stable and important partner in the red-green government. We have been and agree on the direction in which we are to govern the country, and on what basis we are to govern the country. One of the main foundations for this is still NATO membership, that we should not seek EU membership, and that we should govern on the basis of the EEA Agreement. Let me make it very clear that the Centre Party has not intended to depart from concluded agreements. This applies now, and in the future. There is no doubt that over many years and in many areas, the EU has contributed to the creation of stability in Europe. But we also need to be open and realistic about the fact that there is a lot that does not work well in the EU. If you close your eyes and uncritically swallow everything that the EU system stands for and does, you are also unable to care for our national interests, whether political or economic. For me, it is at least a great cross of thought – and I think it should have been for more – that economic and political cooperation in the Union is now manifestly riveting in the linkages. The serious crisis currently facing the EU and EU countries is serious for all of us and can also threaten Norwegian long-term interests in many ways. There is no doubt either that the main causes of this crisis are the very organisation of the Union, the euro and the economic policy, which has helped to throw millions of people into unemployment, into a desperate family situation — the whole of society is in disintegration. The concept of a lost generation has often been used to illustrate young people’s lack of opportunities in southern Europe. It is serious that people lose illusions, but even worse it is that people lose confidence in their political representatives. In this situation, we see political extremists coming forward – not hidden, but openly. That fascist and Nazi parties openly work in Greece is just a small but very serious example of this. I fear this situation. I fear this instability, for which I believe the EU system is unfortunately one of several reasons. I fear what it will lead to. In this situation, now in 2012, it is difficult for me to understand that the Nobel Committee has been able to award the EU Peace Prize. The debate on the EU and the EEA is undoubtedly a good one, and I am pleased that this has been more topical in the autumn than in the past. Unlike the Right, today's government is pursuing a policy in which we are seeking to define and exploit the space for action in the EEA Agreement. We do not stand by when the EU or EEA beavers. Taking advantage of the action space is taking care of Norwegian interests. The centre party is engaged in the open and biased EU and EEA debate. In our programme work, this is important. In the future, this should be used actively to extend the action space for Norwegian interests, for Norwegian enterprises, for Norwegian businesses and for enhanced self-determination. Therefore, I believe that the debate on how we deal with the EEA Agreement is now more important than the debate on whether we should have an EEA agreement or not. Finally, I would like to support three aspects of the Foreign Minister's meeting the challenges in Europe: we will take responsibility for safe governance at home, continued low unemployment, long-term governance of the state's finances and active industrial policy. We shall be safe and predictable in our European policies, and we shall not least exploit the space for action in the EEA Agreement and have an active involvement in Europe by providing good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e311	Stagnation. Good shot. Tax increases. Alarming leave. Increased social unrest. Declining confidence in democracy. Weak faith in the future. The slogans are not taken from the propaganda of the Union's citizens until the referendum in the early 1990s, but are taken from the Foreign Minister's statement here in the United Kingdom two days ago. They do not describe Norway’s position outside the EU, but the EU’s own situation. Norway is in a very favourable position vis-à-vis those whose base is further south of Europe. The crisis in the European Union is getting worse and worse. Much is due to the euro, which has both contributed to the crisis and made it more difficult to deal with. As euro-members, the countries of southern Europe could obtain cheap loans on the basis of Germany’s creditworthiness. The result was increasing debt and the suspension of necessary reforms in the labour market and in the product market. With the financial crisis, the problems came to light, and now the debt crisis is not just a fact, but has become almost unmanageable. I think it is worth recalling – because we have had previous debates on the euro, where representatives in this room even suggested that it was for Norway – that when monetary policy is to be adapted to the large countries, small countries with a different course of economic activity will have to shift the burden of necessary adjustments to the population, in the form of strong social cuts, with dramatic unemployment resulting in many cases. That is why the euro hurts worse in southern Europe today. It should be a reflection of many eager followers of the euro and of the Union. Let me say a few words about the EEA debate I think it is absolutely necessary and right that we have, and what character it should have. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, under changing governments, under changing political conditions, we have had a contractual relationship with Europe that has served Norway, Norwegian business and Norwegian citizens well. In the current situation, there is no reason to jeopardise that cooperation in the EEA Agreement. It is in my opinion that Norwegian interests are at stake. Therefore, there is a big difference between what the representative Lars Peder Breck said now – about discussing how the scope of action in the EEA Agreement should be exploited, which I believe was a completely justified and necessary debate, on which the Stortinget must always be concerned – and what SV proposes in its proposal for a new party programme, namely that one should exit from the EEA Agreement and enter into some airy alternatives that no one fully understands the consequences for this country. I think that is irresponsible speech and irresponsible action. That is why I am very pleased that both the Foreign Minister and representatives of others who have their primary positions in relation to EU membership, through the debate here today, but also in the questioning process that we had here yesterday, gave such unambiguous and clear expression that we do not want to rock the foundation of our cooperation with Europe as the EEA Agreement is. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that it is not appropriate for the Workers' Party to govern on any basis other than the EEA Agreement. I am very pleased that this too has been so clearly expressed on the Right side, which is the second clearly yes to the EU Party in this House. It is a citizen that the Minister of Foreign Affairs — or perhaps his successors — can add additional governments to the list of those who have ruled on the basis of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is not a static size. It has been shown to be dynamic, it has been shown to be adaptive, and the approach angle should be maintained. But I think it is quite important that we use these political clarifications – not just because it is necessary to be able to govern this country, but primarily because it is in the country's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e328	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. I see the new Minister of Foreign Affairs as much clearer in his speech – and when it comes from the Left, it is to be seen as boast! We also agree with the opinion that ‘Europe is not elsewhere’. We're part of Europe. With the debate that we have had both internally in the government and in the Norwegian trade union movement lately, we are pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs determines the importance of the EEA Agreement for Norway and how important it is to develop Norwegian business, Norwegian culture and Norwegian research. Yes, in many areas, the EEA Agreement is the basis. It has served Norway well, and I would say it has also served Europe well. What I heard yesterday, on the other hand, from the arguments of the Minister of Agriculture during the debate on customs, I do not think there were any good arguments that Norway should be the country that is going to travel its customs barriers to Europe in the situation we are currently in. Norway should have great opportunities to use other instruments to achieve what we want with Norwegian business, and the Left will vote against the customs proposals that lie there. Some of the arguments put forward here yesterday are a little strange – if we did not get a little higher customs duties on certain cheeses, we would stop slaughtering turkeys in Norway. I have a little more faith that Norwegian agriculture actually has the opportunity to develop, and I have great faith in the creativity of Norwegian politicians in finding policy tools to support business, if you want. The Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke a lot about labour immigration, and in this area, I believe that we, like Norway, need to look at how to simplify the legislation and make things easier with regard to the free movement of labour. Labour immigration is a completely selfish act for Norway – because we need it. Asylum and refugee policy is something we do to be kind to others. Work immigration is something we do to be kind to ourselves. Therefore, having flexible, good labour immigration arrangements is very important for Norwegian business, very important in order for us to have the opportunity to attract the labour we need to develop Norwegian business in the future, and there is a lot left to do in making this easier. I am afraid that we are now experiencing weekend commuters from Europe who do not pay taxes to Norway, but who actually have their whole working day here, and that we have had a far too wrong focus in this room. We're extremely worried that someone might get 970 kroner in child welfare every month, while we don't care that they don't pay taxes to Norway, sail if they actually work in Norway. The Ryanair principle has been excessive in Norwegian business until now. Governments said a lot about research. I think Norway needs to do a great job in the future to be able to keep up with the research effort that is taking place in Europe. There is a great commitment to investing in research in Europe, and we are unable in Norway to spend Norwegian funding so that the Norwegian research community can get its share of it. I believe that the EEA Agreement should also be used to say no to some directives when they are too intrusive towards Norwegian citizens. Saying that there is a letter under 20 grams that is the biggest threat to Norway, I disagree. I believe that the government says no to the wrong directive. I am pleased that they have not been able to have the opportunity to implement the Data Storage Directive, as it is now, and I hope that it will take even longer, so that the EU will park many of the processes they had in this field. I would probably have wanted the government to have a no to that directive rather than to fight against competition by letter less than 20 grams. Otherwise, I agree with the Foreign Minister's comments on the negative developments in democracy and human rights in some countries. Developments in Hungary and Romania have direct consequences for us, but also what we see in Belarus and Ukraine is very negative – where a fighter against the dictatorship in Belarus and sees the very worrying developments in Ukraine, in the wrong direction. We must fight for Europe to be good at both democracy and human rights; we must help to make developments move in the right direction in the countries that are close to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e345	I would like to thank you for many good and important contributions, all of which confirm that there is also now a massive majority in this Chamber because the EEA Agreement is the basis for Norway's relationship with the EU. There are in Stortinget parties that are followers of EU membership, there are parties that are opposed to EU membership, and there are parties that believe that happiness lies in the EEA Agreement itself. But we've agreed to operate on the basis of the EEA, and what we've heard now, we're going to continue. The government has just submitted a message that, in addition to my statement two days ago, makes it clear how the government believes we should further develop this, not least the use of the space for action. So when the Right's main posts in their entirety are dedicated to not talking about the EU, but about relations in the SV and the Central Party, I would recommend that we now turn our focus back on how it stands in the EU, and how we can use the EEA, because that question I think is settled. Also, the next Stoltenberg government is going to rule on the basis of the EEA agreement, and we say a good deal in the message about how we will exploit the opportunities that lie there. Then we're told that we're already incapacitated. So now we've been running for seven years and -- I think it's -- 29 days. I don't think many people in Europe get the exact impression when they look at Norway, with Europe's lowest unemployment, significant profits in most indicators and at all a very safe, managed economy. But I expect that when the representative of Skovholt Gitmark meets his friends in Europe, he can describe how outrageous Norway is, and how much it is to learn from, for example. Southern Europe with regard to good governance of the economy. I have a different vision. It was also mentioned that we have not used the space for action. I would like to mention the right of withdrawal, which was for example already described by the representative Serigstad Valen, that we contributed to stopping the proposed Monti II Directive, which would have been a serious attack on labour principles, consumer efforts, the postal directive, which has been mentioned, differentiated employer fees, gambling and tax exemptions for gifts to voluntary organisations, to mention some – and geological storage of CO2. All these are areas where Norway has used its active European policy to change, influence and move the EU in the right direction. And everyone who participates in the European Committee in Stortinget will notice that every meeting has a number of issues that concern a proactive and dynamic European policy. At the same time, we say that this space of action should be exploited better. To repeat my main point from Tuesday's presentation at that point: it's about being even better at being early in the processes, it's about choosing their beats – deciding on what matters are important – and then using energy, resources, competences and competent people to put it solid on the agenda. Well, that's a good thing. The debates in the last few days have largely focused on the warning against using the space for action, and there has been a fantastic commitment – not least from the Right’s representatives – in terms of how bad it is that we are now maintaining the protection that was originally in the Kronotoll for some Norwegian oysters, and that has then been diluted by the fact that a constant kronetoll is becoming less valuable and that competition from outside products is therefore becoming stronger. We have now had many opportunities to discuss this, but I notice that the Right appears to be afraid of debate – that some people are asking questions about individual features of the agreement or allowing themselves to use the space for action, giving cause for concern, and the best thing would have been if we were sitting quietly on the boat and not challenging anyone. I am much safer on the EEA Agreement than that. I believe so much in the EEA Agreement that I think we will tolerate discussing all of its pages, and I agree with, for example. The representative, Mr Brerk, said that the EEA Agreement had its democratic disadvantages. My answer to that is that full membership of the European Union would give us a better democratic influence. Others have a different view of it. But it is not possible to ignore the fact that we describe in the Communication, that it is a democratic challenge to implement decisions that others have made. At the same time, it is a democratic foundation that six governments have agreed through five magnifications that it is the best way to organise our relationship with the European Union, so at least there is a solid democratic foundation behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e367	First, I would like to say that I think it is a little strange that the Foreign Minister spends his entire speaking time initially taking up one post and one of the main issues. But I'm going to drill into something else that worries about the day, and that's the situation in Russia, with regard to non-governmental organisations and individuals that Norway has also had some good cooperation with, how new legislation makes it difficult to finance, for example. their activity in Russia and where they are partially subjected to prosecution and problems in their country of origin. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs ensure that the relations with the Russian authorities are addressed and that the necessary assistance is provided to the partners with whom they have worked over many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e374	I fully share the concern of the representative, Mr Höglund, for this development in Russia. It is quite clear that Russia is moving in a more authoritarian direction, and that it has become more difficult to be oppositional and to be NGOs. It also affects, as correctly described, e.g. the organisation RAIPON, which was unable to attend the meeting of the Arctic Council yesterday. We have reacted to this in Moscow, we have reacted to that in meeting with the Russian ambassador in Oslo, and I myself, in my meeting with the governor in Murmansk yesterday afternoon, made clear in clear order that we believe that the people-to-people cooperation requires that it is possible for the organisations we have been working with for many years to continue to cooperate with us. It is in our interest, but it is not least in Russia's interest to have an active and living civil society. So I can definitely assure the representative, Høglund, that we do, and we will continue to do so, with a clear address.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e379	In his statement yesterday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, Westervelle, has called for the creation of a new mechanism to safeguard democratic values in the Member States. The Council of Europe already has a monitoring mechanism by monitoring different countries for violations of democratic driving rules, and I wonder what the Foreign Minister is doing to Westervelle's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e384	Firstly, I would like to stress that the primary institution for monitoring these issues is in the Council of Europe. And the role of the Council of Europe has become increasingly apparent again, after perhaps a few years of being in the shadow of European integration, precisely because many of the issues of democracy and human rights on which the Council of Europe primarily focuses have become more relevant. So there I quite agree, that's our primary framework for it. However, it is also important – since the EU has an instrument for integrating new Member States, for the adaptation of incoming Member States, and still has candidate countries – to have an awareness of this in the EU. So I don't see that there's any contradiction between Westervelle's proposal and belief in the role of the Council of Europe. I am in favour of the initiative he has taken, but it is not yet so concrete that it is possible to adhere to something specific.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e391	I look at the Norwegian public investigation outside and within as a look-up. I believe that the message that Stortinget was presented afterwards is too bad, but at the same time with a motto, and that is the ‘action room’ – or the term ‘use the action room’. Let me give Right's support to use the space of action, to help influence, to get into processes early and to less discuss questions about veto, but to make sure that the Norwegian political environment, with state councils at the head, is in Brussels to influence as early as possible to get through. When I criticize the government for being incapacitated in European policy – and that is an important clarification – it is because this government is passive, it is inevitable, and it has too many internal disagreements in European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e398	I'm going to save the assembly to repeat the entire list I read instead, but there are examples of active use of the space that has happened – not something that is going to happen, but that has happened. I believe it is true that this government has exploited the EEA's operating space more than any previous government has done, and that the list shows it. I'm glad that the Right agrees that the action space should be used, but I haven't seen so many examples that the Right has thought that something should be done differently than what came from Brussels, for the most part I hear, is critical when we propose to do things in a different way. So if the occasion allows, it would be interesting to hear what the Right opinion is wrong with the EU, and where they would start making their changes if they had occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e405	First, let me thank the Foreign Minister for coming out of the closet that is ready for EU membership in this Chamber. We're not that many, but it shows that the majority isn't always right. [[Laughter]] Let me also talk a little bit more about the action room, which is mentioned 47 times on 95 pages in the new Storing Message – Report. Art. No. 5 for 2012–2013 – on Norway’s agreement with the EU. We are in order to use the space for action, as the representative Skovholt Gitmark pointed out, also in the arena of the European Parliament. Norway has been without a national expert in the European Parliament since 1 September 2009. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that it has been very unfortunate for Norway to be able to use the space for action and pursue an active European policy? Will he ensure that a national expert is put in place in the European Parliament as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e414	I would first like to say that the most important thing we can do in relation to the European Parliament is to use our party relations. I myself have been on the Board of the European Social Democratic Party for eleven years and spent a great deal of time in Brussels, not as a Norwegian representative, but as a representative of the Labour Party into a community. I'm aware you do it in the right too. It's more important than secretarial participation, although I'm not going to in any way to suggest that it also matters. But I think that a very important part of the European policy Norway is going to pursue, should also be to use the links we have with natural sister parties, the EPP for the Right, the PS for the Workers' Party, and that it is the most important entry point. When it comes to the secretarial function, it also has a little to do with the Storting itself. But I'd like to follow up the call.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e421	I will continue to stay a little bit at the action room and take advantage of it, but then in a regional context. The Nordic countries have different forms of association with the EU, but we are dealing with the same single market legislation, among other things, and it happens from time to time that we adapt to this legislation in different ways. Then new differences emerge between Nordic countries that create looting and bookkeeping for citizens who operate in more than one of the Nordic countries, living in a country other than that in which they work, etc. The question is: What are the ambitions of the government and the new foreign minister – if I can still call him – in terms of Nordic coordination in adapting to EU legislation, and to what extent will the scope for such coordination be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e430	This is actually a very important question and a very good case, because it is definitely an opportunity to use the institutions and the community we have in the Nordic region, whether the Nordic Council or the Nordic Council of Ministers, to discuss how we implement EU directives and other EU legislation. We both participated in discussions at the Nordic Council in Helsinki a few weeks ago where this was a topic and where there was a proposal from the Secretariat of the Nordic Council to focus more on coherent adaptation. That's something I support. And of course, there are sometimes reasons why you implement things a little bit differently, and you can't sweep it away by having a meeting in the Nordic region. But the fact that you're going to have the ambition to maintain as much a common approach as possible, I'm dividing 100 pst. I want to say that Nordic cooperation in our time is no longer an alternative to, for example. The EU or NATO, but rather a depression, a place where we can meet like-mindedly in how we can go even further than what we do through these broader associations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e439	In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘Outside the EU, Belarus has once again experienced a far-reaching parliamentary elections. New EU sanctions have been introduced.’ I agree with the Foreign Minister. We in the Left are very concerned about what is happening in Belarus. At the same time, we are negotiating a free trade agreement with Russia, where Belarus is involved – a project that the EU has put on hold. My question is: does the tone we hear from the Foreign Minister now and in his statement mean that he has taken on board that a possible free trade agreement with Russia will also mean that we are concluding a free trade agreement with a European country with a dictatorship?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e452	I would like to thank the representative for his question and confirm that any free trade agreement with Russia has the consequence that we enter a free trade area with Belarus, because they are in a customs union with Russia. It's definitely a concern that we're concerned about. There was another question from the representative, Mr Höglund, about Russia. I agree that free trade is good. But I also believe that these are considerations that we are going to take forward in the further process towards a free trade agreement. In general, I believe – and that was a bit of the message in my statement – that we are now going to place further emphasis on the development of human rights in Europe, that is, in the Member States and in the neighbouring countries of Europe. I believe it is a factor that should be given weight in the further work. I feel that it's right to say at this point. At least I share deeply the concerns of Belarus, Ukraine and Russia themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e459	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e462	Let me start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good and thorough presentation on important EU and EEA issues. It is important that we have this type of regular debate on Norway's relationship with the EU and the EEA Agreement in this Chamber, because, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, 'Europe is not another place. It's here." Of course, whether we are in favour of or against Norwegian membership of the European Union, we have to deal with the European Union – especially with the gloomy background we have for today’s debate, with the euro crisis, unemployment and a difficult situation for millions of Europeans. Norway has done very well in a very economically troubled landscape in Europe. But we can't take it for granted. I believe that the EEA Agreement has been – and is – good and important for Norway. About 80 pst. of Norwegian exports and more than half of our imports go to or come from EU countries. The EEA Agreement has helped to contribute to economic growth and prosperity in Norway. It is important for a small country like Norway to have a clean economic and legal relationship with our European neighbours, especially in economically uncertain times like what we now have. The EEA Agreement ensures a predictable framework for trade and market access to Europe for Norwegian business. It also ensures Norwegian businesses, both public and private, access to labour and skills — and I would like to add: it also helps to provide Norway with new residents throughout the country, which is dear to many places, but especially in that part of the country from which I come. Like a number of others here in the pulpit, the EEA Agreement and all the accompanying acts are not perfect. There are EEA directives that can be discussed in principle and politically, and we do. The agency directive is an example of that. We discussed this violently both in winter and in spring. That Directive was implemented in Norwegian law, but not without discussion and measures. It was accompanied by a very comprehensive package of measures. In other words, we are taking advantage of the national space for action in the EEA Agreement, as we have done in a number of other matters that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained very carefully. I would also like to follow up the Minister for Foreign Affairs on another important point and once again confirm, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that the EEA Agreement is established during this large-scale period and during the next large-scale period. It is totally irrelevant for us to take some of the chapters out of the EEA Agreement, and of course it is completely unthinkable for the Workers' Party to terminate the EEA Agreement. The EU is made up of 27 different countries and approximately 27 different countries. half a billion inhabitants. EFTA and EEA consist of three prosperous countries and approx. 5.5 million inhabitants. It is not realistic to believe, at least under the prevailing conditions, that we should be able to negotiate for a better EEA agreement with Norwegian eyes. I also believe it is unrealistic to think that the EU would spend time and resources on such a process in today's situation. The Progress Party is among those that have recently been called upon to renegotiate the EEA Agreement, based on the area of work. The free movement of labour is one of four important pillars of economic cooperation in the EU. I think we can say with a great deal of certainty that we cannot take out the employment chapter without jeopardising the whole EEA agreement. We have seen here a touching concern – especially from the Right – for the position of the red-green parties in the EEA Agreement. I think it is striking that the right is bypassing the new attitude of the Progress Party towards the EEA Agreement in silence. The red-green government has been governing the EEA Agreement for seven years. It was clarified in good time before the 2005 elections. I would encourage the opposition to spend a little less time on the government's internal life and a little more resources clarifying its common policy and its alternative before the 2013 decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e485	The EEA Agreement is established. That's what they say. I too would like to start by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good account of many different challenges in the EU, which also have implications for Norway. It is not exactly a bright and forward-looking EU we experience in the day, nor in the statement. Yesterday there were 23 strikes in EU countries, which tells us that the discontent is great, and the confidence of politicians at the moment is small. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that ‘democracy has poor growth conditions where people have weakened their faith in the future’. He also said, ‘These are more than numbers. It's about people." That's exactly what it does. People who see no hope for the future, perhaps a lost generation, with youth unemployment of 30-50 p.m., do not give good vision for the future. In Greece, population growth is now at 1.3, which means that the Greek population will be halved in 45 years. Who, then, is going to pay the bill to the Greek people from the IMF and the EU? In addition, knowing that the population lives longer, it goes without saying that fewer and fewer people are going to make sure that the community is driven forward. With a youth unemployment rate of up to 50 p.p., as seen in some EU countries, and perhaps even higher numbers in the outlying peripheral zone, there is great cause for concern. Technology needs to take over and try to control the economy of shackled countries in Europe. But they will only succeed in the short term, precisely because the technocrats can control the economy and money – but they cannot control people. That democracy is threatened, and that extreme political forces are aroused by fear, is not the least wonderful. The parties that people believed in initially, whether social democrats or conservatives, have turned out to be totally indestructible and have driven the countries into the ditch. What do people do? Of course, they do not go in the same trap by once again voting on political parties that have failed them. No, they want something new. That it ends with an ever-increasing uprising of extreme populist and protectionist parties, both on the left and on the right, as well as religious groups, so we had to come. It is worrying, yes, yes, but it is hardly the Greeks, the Spanish, the Portuguese or the Irish people who are to blame for the fact that the situation is as it is. It is the political elite who have lacked control and control. That is why I agree with the Foreign Minister’s statement that ‘ensuring stable democracies in Europe’ is one of the most important things we can do, preferably through new mechanisms, if necessary. I wish it was right that there is already a common understanding of what democracy is, based on the European Convention on Human Rights. But I guess that's not the case. 47 countries have signed the European Convention on Human Rights, and I think the jam there are 47 definitions of it as well. It leads me to the next topic that I want to address, which is how, unfortunately, human rights also seem to lose some of their value in a country in crisis – such as the United States. the right to education, work and health care and the right to be a family. Rights that we in Norway take for granted are not obvious, either in countries inside or outside the EU. That's why I'm of the opinion that Norway can do a job here. I was very pleased with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said at the end of his speech now. I think Norway can be the clear and audible voice that reminds all countries in Europe that no matter how difficult the economic situation and the situation of life are for people out there, we must never, never lose sight of the universal human rights. If we do that, we've lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e512	With regard to Norway and the question of what more is demanded by the government, the right time and time again — and we shall be able to get back to it — has had a different approach to what the government, naturally, is doing. I think you have to start by saying that the whole place of Europe in school books, through Norwegian history, in Norwegian administration – yes, even in Stortinget – should and must become much wider and much heavier, not least knowledgeable. I think there is every reason to stress that coordination within the administration and in the government must also be made more clear than is the case today, given that the whole of European policy, all the involvement of the Norwegian and European sides, is very cross-border. Much of the implementation of EU directives, of EU policies and developments must be done more elsewhere than in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will have ample opportunity to come back to this. Then I register that instead of thanking the foreign minister for nice words from the opposition, he prefers to go under attack. That's to the extent that a known technique. They are ringing one another, and the foreign minister and the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party are being given a guarantee for the next enlargement period, even if it is supposed to be a Stoltenberg III government. It is strange that the head of the EEA Committee of the Centre Party determines the following in today's business: ‘We recognise the basis of this government, but not the next.’ The same goes for SV, even though the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen today minimizes this and asks us to take matters seriously with calmness: we are calling about today's policy, which will continue to apply in the future – just take a turn around the upcoming election campaign and tell the voters that you want a completely different policy, and that you are going to choose another policy. This is at best confusing. I think one should end with this confusing misconception towards both the magnification and, not least, the voters. For example, when you choose to go to the right, you have to tell us what is the alternative to today's EEA Agreement. What agreement, what solution, is what you want to get on the table – when you go so far as to say that you should go to the elections to cancel the sovereign most important trade agreement Norway has, which means everything to the creative life in Norway? You reset. When you have also described the 23 strikes in Europe yesterday – protectionism, the danger of democracy being put at risk, the effects of the financial crisis – you must at least be able to tell the Norwegian people what the alternative is. Is it e.g. Is there any reason to believe that Europe will be interested in renegotiating the conditions under which Norway protects Norwegian agriculture? For example, you want to do this. Is Europe interested in maximising the use of the action space in the Norwegian fishing industry? The question goes not only to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but as much to SV as to the spokesmen and men of the Central Party. Thus, the action space that Norway wants to make maximum use of, as the only country today implementing the concept of protectionism, is that it is possible through the WTO legislation to increase customs protection by up to 35 pst. This means, for example, that much of Norwegian industry and much of Norwegian fishing industry loses access to its main market overnight. The right shall be both loaded and broken with the agreement of the day. It must be allowed to poke on these vital issues, where the effects of the financial crisis on Norwegian export industries are now becoming more and more applicable. This must be occasion for a time like this. Today’s debate and today’s enthusiasm for Norwegian EU membership show that the majority is not always right, as the representative Nikolai Astrup was. We're in a situation here at home that we always have to listen to and navigate after the majority. That is why we also need a deep debate on what is the alternative for those who market the zeroing of today's main export and trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e534	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for a good account. Then I can at the same time reassure the representative of Skovholt Gitmark that it is not a decision at No to the European Union national meeting that forms the political basis of the sitting government. That's what Soria Moria II does, and there's the relationship to the EEA crystal clear. The representative, Mr Woldseth, starts his statement by stating that the EEA Agreement is in place. But the Progress Party therefore writes in its new programme draft that they will renegotiate the provisions of the EEA Agreement on working life and well-being. As the representative Pedersen had in mind, it is good to put the entire agreement into play. So I think there's reason to ask the representative Woldseth about her statement here from this pulpit means that she has cancelled the program debate of the Progress Party on this particular point? It would have been okay to get an answer to that. The Minister for Foreign Affairs started his presentation by drawing up a serious background. After a period of slow progress, Europe is experiencing economic decline again. This time, there is no disturbance in financial markets and rising interest rates on government debt. This time, there are cut-off policies and attempts to get debt under control that give a heavy impact. The most recent surveys show that unemployment is still rising. It is with this background that the Norwegian EEA debate is also taking place. We have an agreement that ensures full market access for Norwegian export-oriented activities. Our most important trading partners are in Europe. Germany is the most important. Germany has for the longest time tried to avoid a situation where it must guarantee the debt of the southern European countries, but now they are indirectly forced to do so. When the European Central Bank decided that they would open up to purchase sovereign debt, Germany’s vote was opposed to the Governing Board. But Angela Merkel hasn't put his foot down. She understands that this must be done if the euro project is to survive. It's only if someone can go in and guarantee the debt, that you can avoid it becoming worthless when we've ended up in such an evil spiral as we've done. But this is the situation that Germany is in. They must take heavy responsibility for saving the euro project. Norway has full market access, Germany is our main trading partner, but we have an agreement that means that we are neither a euro member – fortunately, I would say – nor obliged to take responsibility for its survival. I think, to be absolutely honest, that the EU's patience if Norway comes to renegotiate an agreement that is perceived as being far from good, will be very, very small. This does not mean that we cannot have debate in Norway – of course not. I mean, for example. that it is entirely in place with a debate on whether or not we use the space for action in the EEA Agreement well enough. I believe that it is certainly possible to be more proactive than we are at times, take more initiatives towards the EU system and have better, more informed public debates in Norway, both on individual directives and on the agreement as such. The approach of Skovholt Gitmark seemed to be that the veto right is not something that is real, that it is not something that can be used, that we should never challenge, and that we should take everything without debate. I totally disagree with that. The agreement is not made of glass, but we need to be clear as to what developments in our society can be linked to the EEA Agreement, and who can't. I am of those who are very concerned about the development of parts of Norwegian working life. Take, for example: on a helmet and goes out and visits a construction site, it is quite hairy what kind of stories you get about the conditions of those jobs, especially for foreign hired workers. It is a challenge that is hardly going to be smaller over the years – on the contrary – it is going to get bigger because we are picking up more and more labour from Europe, and it opens up social dumping to a very different extent from what we have been accustomed to in Norway. But I don't hear anyone say that the answer to that is to close the borders – none – and that people from our neighboring country will no longer be able to come to Norway and work. This will be a trend completely independent of the EEA. We want our neighbours to be able to work with us, and we want the Nordics to be able to work and study in Denmark, Lithuania and the United Kingdom. Social dumping must be combated by solid legislation. We're doing that job, and we're going to keep doing it: two packages against social dumping, the third one is notified, and it's done in the framework of the EEA Agreement. I understand the concern that the agreement is dynamic. You cannot guarantee for all future judges – of course not. However, the examples referred to by the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself, with the right of repatriation and differentiated employer fees, prove that the room for action is there, that we are prepared to act if significant Norwegian interests are challenged, and that the Labour Environment Act is a clearly Norwegian interest. The biggest threat to the Working Environment Act is getting a new Right Party government that wants a completely different piece of legislation from what we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e553	Let me begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough and good presentation on important European policy issues. Yesterday’s demonstrations in a number of EU countries clearly show that problems in the EU are not over. In countries like Greece and Spain, people are annoyed that the state funds are empty and that people lose their jobs. Furthermore, they protest that the lenders are demanding better financial management when new crisis loans are to be distributed. On the other hand, people react with anger in euro countries who have done quite well, such as Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and to the extent of France. There are people — not for no reason whatsoever — who now have to pay the price for years with irresponsible economic policies in the southern European countries. The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred Tuesday to Norway as an exception in Europe, with profits in the state economy, high employment and money on book. That's in and out of control. Today the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that this is because of safe governance. That's probably only partially correct. The main reason why Norway is doing well is our huge oil and gas revenues. Had we not had them, public enterprises, as we now friends to finance from the state budget, would not have been possible. It's probably an exaggeration, but when someone says that Greece is equal to Norway minus oil, it's not entirely on the ground. Norway is vulnerable if demand from EU countries for Norwegian exports such as oil, gas, technology and fish decreases. We have to take that seriously. Now is the time to have ice in your stomach and to know in your forehead, and to oppose the demands for appropriations for all kinds of well-intentioned purposes. Better is it if we can use this golden chance that we now have to invest in the future, build up the infrastructure and make Norway robust to withstand other and worse framework conditions. The EEA is the cornerstone of Norway's economic relationship with Europe. It is agreed by an overall opposition. Parts of the government also agree with that. But the EEA debate in Norway is not going on in this Chamber. It takes place first and foremost in the government offices. So two of the government's three parties just want to cancel the whole EEA agreement without having any assurances about what we get instead. I have to say it essentially reminds us – perhaps more than anything else – that they want to be with and play, but they think the rules of the game are some nonsense. With such a strategy to seek cooperation with European countries, it is clear that the government has a problem. This has turned out in many ways, I just want to mention one example: Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. It states that Norway and the EU should continue their efforts to gradually liberalise trade in agricultural products. When it says in Article 19 that we're going to continue our efforts, it might be a little strange, because this kind of effort has been very little of it. In a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and a delegation from the European Parliament on 21 February this year, the EU team expressed a strong dissatisfaction with the progress of this work. They called for more regularity in the meetings of the expert groups, so we can get on with this issue. Norway has already had good access to exports of food to the EU in the form of fish exports. Norwegian food imports policy is seen in the EU as a significant protectionist. More free trade in food will provide Norwegian consumers with a better choice – more diversity, more quality and lower prices. Therefore, this is included in the EEA Agreement. This is really great. Furthermore, it will provide the EU with a long-term export market, and the Norwegian State can reduce agricultural subsidies and use the money for something more constructive – that is, an advantage both for most people in the EU and for our respective national funds. I therefore challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs: after almost 20 years of EEA agreement, Norway has ignored and – to say the least – sabotaged Article 19 of the EEA Agreement on free trade in agricultural products. I hereby give the Minister of Foreign Affairs the chance to come back with a happy message here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e572	In his presentation, the Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed to the main message of the government's European policy, namely that we are clear from the Norwegian side about what is Norwegian interest and that we are using the space of action we have to assert these interests in a better way. I agree with that – implicitly: we must not become so serious in our defence of the EEA Agreement that we do not point to obvious weaknesses. I will make an experimental contribution to that today. First, the so-called three-country fisheries agreement in Skagerrak between Denmark, Norway and Sweden — an agreement which dates back to 1966 and which is now an EU agreement. Norway terminated this agreement with effect from August of this year, subject to the entry into force of a new negotiated agreement. The new agreement entails a draft ban, i.e. a ban on the dumping of fish, which is permitted in EU waters, but environmental crime in Norwegian territory. When the agreement was in place, we celebrated the draft ban as a breakthrough for Norwegian fisheries in the EU. It would turn out to be in the earliest layer. Sweden and Denmark have now notified that it is not possible to introduce the draft ban from 1 January 2013 and that it should at best be postponed until 1 January 2014. The reason is obvious: the countries of southern Europe, and especially Spain, Portugal and France, fear that a draft ban in Skagerrak will get an estimate of other EU waters. That is why they are now trying to block the implementation of a negotiated agreement, and this is, of course, creating uncertainty about the whole agreement. When the draft prohibition is not implemented, it can also be asked to a large extent whether other parts of the agreement should be put into effect, such as the measurement of allowances. The Southern Fisheries Team, which organises the professional fishermen on our part of the Skagerrak coast, now arranges for the whole agreement to be postponed. In this area, Norway has offensive interests, and I know that Norwegian fisheries authorities are keeping a high profile in Brussels. It is absolutely necessary to be able to move the EU to stop practices that are environmentally and resource-damaging in every way. So to other issues that should very much also call for our interest, and that, if they develop, may have negative consequences for Norwegian business, namely the liberalisation of the European transport industry. It has led to the flagging off of Norwegian carriers and jobs. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs so strongly stressed that the government will continue to work towards social dumping with unrestricted strength, because in this area we really have a job to do. I am aware, of course, that the liberalisation of the European transport market has been driven by the desire for increased competition and fair cross-border transport services, but, unfortunately, by the pay and working conditions of workers. As a result, inexperienced truck drivers from low-cost European countries, who are stuck in snowmobiles on Norwegian winter roads, have hardly any salt in the food they bring with them when everything stops. Now we can hardly prevent foreign carriers, vehicles and drivers from entering the country, but we can control equipment, we can control driving and rest periods, we can control cabotage, and we can demand that those who are going to drive in Norway have Norwegian pay and working conditions. We will do so very much if the EU cabotage rules are further liberalised. It's wrong enough that it is, cabotage means that non-resident carriers can carry out domestic missions in the country they visit. Today's rules, which are certainly liberal enough, still have a limit of three load and unloading trips within seven days before they have to be out of the country again. The SSB has estimated the amount of cabotage in Norway at 0,1 pst. of the domestic market. However, the transport industry contests this and believes that the scope is much larger. The problem, however, is that this traffic is difficult to get an overview of, but we can conclude that they already threaten Norwegian truck industry and Norwegian drivers’ pay and working conditions. If cabotage rules are further liberalised, our transport market will be opened up to foreign companies with the consequences they will have. It is therefore necessary that we make Norwegian interests clear to the EU at an early stage, so that we do not get into a situation that updates the use of the right of reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e590	First of all, I will give tribute to the Council of State for a good account that has covered a great many areas. It is, however, an area that I am a little surprised that the Council of State did not place more emphasis on in its presentation, and that was the purely commercial policy part. In fact, the Council of State is in the midst of the most important tool for Norway related to trade — the EEA Agreement. It is nice to read in the media today that the Workers' Party categorically states that, on their part, the EEA Agreement is established, and it is reassuring. The problem is that the two partners of the Workers' Party in the government have a completely different view on this matter. This is very regrettable, because for Norwegian business – especially in fish exports – there are some 70 pst. of our trade, among others on salmon with the EU. Although fisheries or agriculture are not part of the EEA Agreement, it is quite clear that everything is related to everything that the former party colleague Gro Harlem Brundtland, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, has said so eloquently. I hope that the Workers' Party will really stand firm on that point and make sure that the Centre Party and SV finally make sense in this matter. What's the problem in this room is related to the trade we're going to have with other countries. Time and again, I raised with former Foreign Minister Gahr The major problem that would arise if individual countries began to be protectionist in their trade policies, because the trade to be developed between countries is very important for all, and especially for a small country such as Norway, which is so export oriented. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre at the time stated that he was also very concerned about whether some countries began taking protectionist positions. Then it's very regrettable that maybe the first person to do it is Norway. Through what is in the State budget, with the conversion related to import protection, Norway adopts a very protective approach within this field. The signal effect is very negative. We've had this up in an interpellation earlier this week, and we also had it up in the quiz here in the hall yesterday. Last night I had a meeting with the Norwegian fishing industry, especially in the fishing industry, and it is not that the industry is not concerned. The industry is really concerned because negotiations on the so-called parallel agreements on the fisheries side should actually start. In most areas this will be of very little importance, but in some areas Norway will be able to meet with the same attitude of our trading partners as we have towards them. That's why this signal is so serious and so negative to them that we're dealing with. While the countries of Europe really bleed financially, Norway responds by having customs barriers. This was such a big case that the Minister of Agriculture himself here yesterday could tell us that they had to send this over to a government agency in order to assess which types of oyster you would get extra customs duties on in Norway. Yes, then it shows an attitude that is so negative that it gives cause for concern. So I hope that the Foreign Minister will be able to calm the mouths of his colleagues in the EU, too, because we are all well served by the fact that trade continues in a proper way with the least possible barriers, as is evident in the EEA Agreement. As a member of the Parliamentary Delegation to the EFTA and EEA, we see how important they are precisely these agreements we have, and also the work done in connection with free trade agreements. In this respect, I would like to strongly warn against the idea of the precisely Center Party and SV, which will replace our EEA agreement with a trade agreement. Yes, then it will be exciting to see what kind of trade agreement. I believe that for those countries that have trade agreements with the EU, especially Switzerland, there is no Sunday school either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e605	The vision of the Labour Party for Europe is the same as that of Norway. Our starting point is the desire for fair distribution, freedom, security and equality for all citizens. Our idea and our basic idea of creating and sharing is what's at the bottom. Norwegian European policy is to safeguard Norwegian interests and contribute to solidarity and growth in Europe at a time of mass unemployment in the south, an ageing population and a Europe characterised by increasing differences between peoples both in countries and between countries. We also see greater social tensions in the wake of the economic and social crisis. The Norwegian model in a European perspective is a flexible economic model that has enabled us to deal with the crisis very well. I'll meet you, for example. at my place of residence. This concerns a company called Kongsberg Automotive, one of the international companies in Norway, which went a long way during the financial crisis. I often get feedback on how important it is with the short distance between the Minister of Industry, the Prime Minister, the authorities and the employees and the managers of my hometown. As an international company, they see just how well the Norwegian model works compared to other countries. The short path and the ability to listen to workers and businesses lead to and deliver results that ensure Norwegian jobs across the country. I believe that the Norwegian model is one of our most important advantages in trade with Europe. Therefore, I think it is a pity that we have a Right Party and a Progress Party in opposition in Norway that will gradually – if they come to power – build down the Norwegian model. We saw it, for example. the involvement of Skovholt Gitmark in European policy is called for. Where was the Right Resistance and Engagement to the Monti II Regulation? Where was the Right in that case? Where is the involvement of the Right to preserve strike rights in Europe? Why do I spend time on this? Yes, it is because I think it is important to note that Europe and the various European countries are governed by policy. It is a political majority who must take responsibility for the solutions chosen by the countries. That means that I too, as, of course, a member of the European Union and a social democrat, do not always agree with what is adopted in Brussels. That is why it is a very strange starting point Right and the Progress Party has here, when today and earlier this week have fluctuated, spent all its energy on stating that our space for action in European policy should not actually be used. If the Right Party and the Advance Party come to power, they have documented this last week that we will have not only a passive European policy but a logistical European policy. I want to give a fresh example of the political differences from a debate in the Swedish Parliament this week. The majority of the Committee on Labour Markets, consisting, inter alia, of The Social Democrats, Sweden believes, should now require a legally binding social protocol in the EU which makes it clear that the fundamental professional rights are not subordinated to the economic freedoms of the EU. The government parties in Sweden, with the Moderates at the head, have reserved themselves against the proposal. The question I want to ask is: are they opponents of this also here in Norway? The right has repeatedly been a brake pad in the work and in the fight of the government has led to social dumping, both here in Norway and in Europe. The debate on or against the EEA is a derailment. Instead, the fight is about combating right-wing policies here at home and in Europe. A Euro-LO study demonstrates that professional rights are under pressure during the financial crisis. Where is the involvement of the Right and Advance Party in professional rights in Europe today? The Labour Party is working with our sister parties, our friends in the LO and in the Euro-LO to combat social dumping and to avoid the financial crisis leading to a European labour market consisting of unemployed and underpaid workers. I think it is very special to experience that the representatives of the Labour Party and the other government parties here in the Chamber have a better knowledge of what is going on in the Committee on Programmes of the Progress Party than clearly the representatives of the Progress Party in this Chamber. It is a fact — it has even gone land and beach around — that in its programme debate the Progress Party has opened up to renegotiate parts of the EEA Agreement. Do the representatives of the Progress Party support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e625	I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation on Tuesday. It reminds us of how infiltrated our everyday life is with regard to the EU and the EEA Agreement, and how dependent we are on the export market we have in Europe. The EEA Agreement has been, and is, an important building block for our trade in Europe, and it gives us access to the internal market. It gives us a position and trading opportunities we wouldn't have had if we were outside. Although we are different countries in many contexts, there is no doubt that our business life depends entirely on having competitiveness and framework conditions that contribute to a natural part of the European market. About 80 pst. of our exports are just going to the European market. In many European countries, there are now major political strikes, where citizens scream for security. High levels of unemployment pose social unrest, and the high levels of government cuts are now so noticeable for individuals, public enterprises and businesses that frustration is increasing day by day. Here at home we've done so well. A powerful government has put in place the right measures that have worked. But there is no doubt that we too will be able to notice this in the future, as it will be slow, but certainly noticeable in view of a stagnation in the European market. A weakened European economy affects us. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so clear that we are going to keep the EEA Agreement. It is therefore important both to follow the situation in Europe and to be in the forefront of issues to be discussed in Brussels. Through cooperation, we are involved in building up a community and non-discrimination that is important and appropriate in terms of solidarity with our neighbours. We must be concerned that more people in Europe are getting safer working conditions, but we must also ensure that it does not affect our own. The EEA Agreement provides for the possibility to use an action space that is important to us, and we have examples of the space that has been used. There's two examples of that. One is the right of repatriation. Among other things, EL & IT joined a hard fight to get it in place. The second is a differentiated employer’s fee, which is an important regional policy act, a system that should now be evaluated, where things may have happened in the municipalities that make it necessary to relocate. The government’s initiative to ensure decent working life in the framework of EEA law has produced many good results, such as the use of ID cards in the construction industry and in the clean-up industry, transparency for trusted people, Norwegian working conditions in municipal tenders and solidarity – just as a few examples. So much is done. Nevertheless, more needs to be done if we are to listen to the debate that is taking place in businesses. We see that some employers are creative in their efforts to circumvent the legislation. In addition, it does not help to do delimited measures in this work, because in so many areas it is sinning that it does not become effective without a wide-ranging attack on the problem. It is good that the Labour Inspectorate has gotten bigger muscles to oversee. Furthermore, I believe there is a need to look at how different agencies work between themselves in terms of both supervision and penalties. Because it is natural to imagine that if there has been a criminal offence in the field of labour law in an enterprise, there may also be a crime in other areas of the same enterprise. This is one of the things that the Minister of Foreign Affairs might be able to bring into the work that the government is doing in the future. The EEA Agreement is a complex base wall, as I see it, just like the Norwegian model is. It's going to be wrong to deal with it as a package that you can take apart and divide, you have to take the whole thing. For us, it is important to have good processes at home, be early in the negotiations and see the spaces of opportunity that lie in the various matters. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for being very active and clear in all the matters relating to the EU and the EEA. I am also pleased that the concerns that come up are taken seriously and continuously managed. Continue like this, for safe governance creates peace and a good climate to solve challenges and provide room for opportunity. A little poem to the representative Nesvik, who was talking about Sunday school, that this wasn't a Sunday school. Then I began to think that maybe he was at Sunday school yesterday when he was talking about fish, because when I was at Sunday school, it was like when we put up at Sunday school, we got a goldfish in our book. So fish and Sunday school may be more closely connected than we've been thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e655	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e658	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the excellent presentation, which was very firm and very forward-looking. A month ago, the government presented the European message, a very good message, and it is natural that there will be a debate after such a message. I think it is both timely and right that we now take, because since 1994, the EEA Agreement has become even more extensive, and it affects many policy areas. The prerequisite for the conclusion of the EEA Agreement was that it should be a dynamic agreement to see the possibilities. What I think the government has been good at is seeing the opportunities that lie there for Norwegian business and for Norwegian social development in the agreement we have. What surprises me a little bit from the opposition's side today is that there's a lot of negative coming out. We need to see the positive and the opportunities in the future too, because this agreement has been good for Norway, and it should also be in the future. Norway, with its open economy, must, of course, look at the possibilities and the security of export markets and their predictability and future prospects. There are currently no good, realistic alternatives to the EEA Agreement. Therefore, with a crisis in Europe and in large parts of the world economy, it is particularly important that we do not create uncertainty about our contractual works and our markets, which may turn out to be negative. Europe is changing rapidly today. Unfortunately, financial, political and social unrest characterises the situation, but here we must be involved and contribute to the stability and well-being of the European whole. It will also benefit Norway to the greatest extent. Secure, stable democracies are what we must stress is important. We cannot shut ourselves out of Europe, and we cannot go back to a common labour market where only one of our neighbours should be in. Either we're in, or we're out. I – and we in the Workers' Party – believe that we should be involved, and we should see the opportunities. Our country and the Norwegian economy have done well. The EEA Agreement has been in force for nearly 19 years and has worked for a period of stability and economic growth for Norway. We have to take that over. We also need to look forward. We're going to see the possibilities, and of course we're going to see things we can do better, especially in the labour market. It has played a crucial role in the Norwegian economy, employment and well-being. We have seen this in particular in the West, where there is a lot of export-oriented industry. We've created a growth that has been adventurous, and we've had a framework around that growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e673	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the presentation, especially because, unlike in the previous three years that I have heard it, he placed a great deal of emphasis on EU research cooperation, and devoted a relatively large amount of space to his presentation. It may be natural, as the government of spring is presenting a new research report, and because the next EU framework programme is now beginning to take shape and budget balances are known. This research cooperation has an enormous impact on Norway and on research actors in Norway. It gives us access to the world's largest research collaboration, and it is estimated that the value of the research results that Norway and Norwegian researchers thus gain access to has a value that is approximately. the double of the total Norwegian research budget, i.e. approx. 50 B.C.E. kr in value per year. But it's going to cost you. An evaluation shows that the return achieved by Norway and Norwegian researchers amounts to approximately 80 pst. of the quota we pay to be in. So there's more to go on, and that's a part that's taken up as a theme. The quota is increasing considerably in the government’s proposals for the 2013 government budget, approx. 400 million. kr. Therefore, it may be strange that there is no strategy or new action to draw more from this cooperation, i.e. when the price tag goes up, the value of the Norwegian return will be relatively reduced if you do nothing else. What is clear is that the cost of participating in the 8th Framework Programme – what is called Horizon 2020 – will be higher. The budgets will increase. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned the figures in his statement. There is an increased budget of approx. 60 pst. compared with the 7th Framework Programme, which ends next year, and when the entry ticket is to be calculated on the basis of GDP, it goes without saying that Norway’s ticket will be more expensive and expensive in the coming years. However, this also shows that the EU has an ambitious commitment to knowledge in this programme. An increase of 60 pst. The budget over a seven-year period can be compared with the government's own account of what has increased the Norwegian research budget over the last eight years; approx. 32 pst. In other words, the EU has twice as much ambition as Norway, and it should worry more than us in the Right. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the following: In his new proposal for the work programme, the Swedish Government Party has the following wording: Norway participates in EU research programmes in line with the EEA Agreement. SV wants a critical review of how resources are used. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share this critical position?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e692	What is good about the presentation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the EEA Communication is that they appear to be a political confirmation that the EEA Agreement is broadly positive to Norway. The only question is whether the Council of State has the rest of the government in its burning commitment to Europe. There is no doubt that the European Union has transformed the political, legal, social and cultural landscape of Europe in a far-reaching way. A common regulatory framework for non-discrimination and non-discrimination covers a network of regulation in most areas of society across Europe. We have witnessed a silent revolution that has broken down barriers and barriers, altered mentalities and hostile images, and remedied democracy and the rule of law. And citizens and states are currently involved in extensive and borderless cooperation. This has contributed to much good and new things that have benefited all citizens, both in Norway and in Europe. One of the main arguments of the EU opposition is that the EU relationship limits national democracy. What we need to understand about democracy today is becoming an increasingly burning issue in Norway. Every day, we see that the financial crisis leads to powerless national democracies. Their agenda is not controlled by themselves but by out-of-control financial markets. Climate crises and human rights violations also call for transnational decision-making competence. I just want to go back to the Foreign Minister's statement on Tuesday. What I missed in that statement was a deeper analysis of what is taking Europe today: the crisis in the euro zone and how to get out of it. Unemployment — especially among young people, as the Foreign Minister also mentioned in his statement — is very worrying, and it would be interesting to know what is being done to deal with it. The right considers that the key to preventing deterioration is to build on the internal market. Because without it, the crisis would have been worse, and more jobs would have been lost. It would also have been very interesting to hear a little more from the Minister for Foreign Affairs about how he views the possibility of a trade agreement between the EU and the United States following the re-election of President Obama, and not least what consequences this will have for the EFTA negotiating cards and for Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e703	The party to the progress is a hot member of the EEA Agreement. In the absence of being a clear EU party on the yes or no side, we have been one of the parties that has embraced the EEA. Everyone now agrees that the space for action needs to be exploited. At the same time, we know that the EEA Agreement will soon enter its 20th year. During that period, the EU has changed. The legal — the treaty — has changed, and the EU has changed geographically. It has also had an impact on the EEA. A lot has happened in Norway and Europe over the last 20 years. Now we – and I must praise what has happened in recent years – have an open and relatively open debate on new directives, the position, etc. The Progress Party has chosen to oppose directives, but very often – where we are politically agreed – we are in favour of the directives. Then, among other things, I have argued in this room, for several years, that we should look at an update, an upgrade of the agreement. That's a lot of technical stuff. But it is not unnatural that one can also have ambitions in view of the material content, which is not in the Treaty but is part of the whole agreement. Then we'll have to see how far we're going. We do not say in any programme proposal that we cancel the EEA Agreement, and then we start to negotiate something new. We want to look at the sides of the agreement – see how far we get – and then we need to be able to have ambitions. In the past, a strategy was warned against opening up the EEA Agreement. It was a Pandora's box, and you could meet with so many counterclaims that you could risk being put on the sideline. We believe Norway is relevant to the EU in many ways. We believe that we are a interlocutor and a partner with whom the EU will seriously sit down, if we have a mandate to talk to the EU. I am sure that, after a broad discussion, we will be able to negotiate. So that's the background for our thinking. It is true that these are aspects of the agreement in our programme draft that we want to discuss. It's no more dramatic than that. Whether we are able to achieve goals with possible partners, and then with the EU, remains to be seen. And it's up to the force ratios, not least after the upcoming big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e714	I am also of those who seem to be the Foreign Minister had a great wording: ‘Europe is not elsewhere. It's here." I am a member of – and active in – an organisation that tries to live and work in harmony with this, namely No to the EU. This marked very much the national meeting we have just set ourselves behind. The EEA question was also central to us, and I actually thought for a while that we had some sort of agreement that we should all lower our shoulders somewhat, should resolve a little in old positions, just to avoid a wide debate – an EEA debate. And then everyone agreed that it wouldn't be that easy. Dead wise chief Odd Børretzen says in one of his wise men: If I meet a non-smoker, I'll meet him with an open mind. But it won't be easy. But we should try. We should try to solve for a little bit in our positions. And no to the EU national meeting. We were able to keep what we called the broad front. We were able to stand out as an organisation that had room for both EEA members, EEA opponents and EEA doubters. Part of the trade union movement has been commendably able to take that debate in a good and thorough manner, but here in the hall – not least today – and in the national political landscape it seems much more locked up. It's nice to take the debate, many say. But if the conclusions get too critical, then there's some sort of panic spreading. One way to solve this -- what I think more initiators have actually done in a good way -- is just to go into themes, address issues that are challenging in relation to the different political projects that the different parties have. Then we get a much better debate. Because I think most people get pretty confused out there. Those who are followers of the EEA Agreement say that we should look at it, because it's dynamic, because it's an action room, etc. And then we say as at the beginning are EEA opponents, that we want an extended trade agreement. It's not that SV is an anarchist party. It's not the Center Party, either. We're supposed to have a contractual relationship, because we're part of Europe. And if there's anything the EU can do, then there's trade agreements. So it's not a choice between an agreement and no agreement. But we want to have an open, prejudice-free debate after having had an agreement that has worked for so many years – which has been very dynamic. For it has not least Estonian in addition to thematically, and it has Estonian inwards in terms of detail. Then, after we have taken the debate, it comes to conclusions about what kind of agreement we're going to reach. Then I think it's appropriate for the debate that we don't care so much about what kind of name we want to place on it eventually. So let's be a little bit more prejudiceless, have a little more open mind. This debate deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e730	Let me start by thanking you for a lot of nice words about the presentation and once again saying that the most important thing we are going to take out of this debate, as I see it, is that there is a very wide consensus that Norway is part of Europe, part of European cooperation, and that the EEA Agreement is the basis. We have heard that from all parties, and it is good for the foreign minister to know. So we're going to discuss within it, but let's not make the distance greater than that after all. I was pleased with the post from Afghan Rafiq, because it showed that the Right is also interested in the EU, and not just in the internal life of the SV and the Central Party. Then I'll get to say a few words about it. My view, which I was actually also in the presentation, is that the European Union must move forward towards more integration. I think a de-integration of the EU will create an evil spiral in the wrong direction. I am not skeptical about the euro, as opposed to the representative Højbräten – I believe the euro is a good idea – but I am skeptical about stopping there and not having a parallel coordination of economic policy, so that there were some deep imbalances, which we now see being lived out. We want to be a third party to negotiations between the EU and the United States, but it is exciting and interesting to see which way it would have to go. Then, in the same direction, I would like to stress that the representative Helga Pedersen was very clear – I would stress – that the EEA Agreement is probably better for us than an alternative agreement we had reached today. It is very important to remember that when it was concluded, we were six EFTA countries and twelve EC countries, as it was then called. We negotiated with Sweden, Finland, Austria and Switzerland, and it was a completely different strength relationship. We got an agreement that many in the EU think is good, and that we should consider renegotiating it – as the Progress Party among others. suggests – am I quite skeptical to. I don't think we'll get anything better out of it. That's why our answer is to use the room for action, but base the agreement we have today. Finally, I would like to say to the post by Peter N. Myhre that Norway is like Greece without oil: I deeply and fundamentally disagree with that, because very much of the Nordic model, which we applaud, was already in place in the 1970s. Its basis is small differences, ability to change, a welfare state that was market-friendly and unconserving, that women began to work in the labour market. These are basic values that we share with other Nordic countries, both those with resources, and others. I believe that it is simply a completely wrong description that it is because of the oil that things are going well in Norway. It's because of safe control. And we have practised that, with great emphasis on free trade and with great emphasis on the importance of cooperation with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e743	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, and as many have followed up in today's debate, Europe is now in the midst of an extremely difficult situation. There's no reason to rejoice. However, there should be some reflections, such as: over the elections we made in 1994, when we chose to stand outside the Union. It is my clear belief that it was objectively a right decision to say no to the EU in 1994. The crisis in Europe is most real both economically and politically. Every week we can read about youth leave in Spain and Greece at 50 p.m., about the elderly who have to leave home, about an increasing uprising and emerging Nynazism in a number of European major acts. The crisis shows that the EU is facing enormous challenges, and such a crisis cannot be avoided in Norway. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that it is ‘important that we are clear from the Norwegian side what Norwegian interests are and use the space for action we have to assert these interests in a better way’. These are really positive signals for all of us who are in favour of Norwegian self-determination and against EU bureaucracy. There are also positive signals for the Norwegian people who are so tired of EU directives that intervene in everyday life that they want a stronger use of the space for action and a better agreement. Of course, a star example of the exploitation of the space we already have — and to a lesser extent exploits — is the great victory of the Centre Party, which led to an increase in customs duties on six central toll lines in agricultural products. For Norwegian agriculture, it is essential that the government now takes action to secure decent incomes for farmers in the future. And the customs code is within the scope of the EEA Agreement. We in the Centre Party will fight for the future exploitation of the space for action contained in the EEA Agreement for the benefit of the Norwegian population and the Norwegian business community. Finally, I would like to say one thing: what surprises me a little after hearing the debate until now is that those who were Europeans last year are equally strong Europeans this year. Those who were completely uncritically positive to the euro last year are equally positive to the euro this year. Those who spoke the EU case in e.g. last year's trade policy, it is doing even more so this year. It almost seems as if no matter what happens, the EU is the answer. Whatever happens, the euro is of the good. Anyway, 70 pst. of the Norwegian population is against Norwegian EU membership, EU membership is the only right. So sometimes I wonder: what is it that these representatives are going to say something critical about the development of the euro and the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e756	The debate has clarified that there is no need to worry about whether the EEA Agreement will be based on future periods as well as on future governments. The attempt, especially by the Right, to make the debate a problem and say that it will create uncertainty can therefore be refuted. Debate is important. There is the absence of debate on our relationship with Europe that is dangerous. The benefits then become, when we never talk about this, to the obvious. We forget why we signed the agreement, and we forget what it gives us, for example. that you can buy a holiday apartment in Spain and live there as much as you want without asking anyone, and be treated as a Spaniard. It is in the forgotten book that the idea of alternatives emerges when there are proposals and legislation that challenge important aspects of Norwegian reality – such as the right to return, as a differentiated employer fee, as our model of working life. At that time, attention will be focused on the problems — and the many benefits we have. We can then be led to believe that it has been part of the creation of time, and not just due to the EEA agreement – or Nordic cooperation – to take another example. When Skovholt Gitmark is so far into election mode that he can claim that the government is ‘government incapacitated’ on European issues because it takes national interests into account in relation to new legislation, I don’t think he sees the difference in the quality and activity of European policy. The debate here at home is, of course, wave whelp in relation to the debate in many EU countries. In Sweden, a legal social protocol is now being called upon to ensure professional rights, to which the representative Laila Gustavsen also pointed out, and in the United Kingdom, the Prime Minister is now being pressured to move towards a new referendum on membership. I believe that both we and the EEA Agreement are well into a debate. Otherwise, I notice that Skovholt Gitmark made it clear that he believes that the government is governmental in all other areas. We note that with a certain interest. So Ivar Kristiansen raised the question, what is the alternative to the EEA agreement? Yes, there are two alternatives. It's a membership, or it's an out-of-date free trade agreement. We know the answer to that. With today's enthusiasm for the membership option among people out there it is – unfortunately, I think – a little realistic variant, but it's just as little realistic for those who here in this room want to have a majority for another agreement, i.e. a trade agreement instead of the EEA Agreement. I think it's more important to discuss e.g. how Norway should deal with the deepening of cooperation that is now taking place to overcome the economic crisis, not least in relation to stronger coordination also of the budgetary policies of the countries. In addition, in my new party programme to have an ongoing assessment of the Schengen Agreement, I find the desire of the Progress Party to be as demanding and as serious as the assessment of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e775	It must be a misunderstanding that I have asked the representative Svein Roald Hansen questions about what is the alternative. It was addressed to a couple of his cooperating parties, who have not taken advantage of the opportunity to answer this question. But I know what Svein Roald Hansen thinks about it. There has been a lot of talk about the rights of workers, the right to strike, etc. – about the big fights in Europe. We can have a discussion about who has been fighting to promote these rights, but general human rights in Europe, etc. we shall always find an opportunity to discuss with the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. It has been argued in the debate that the fall-back system has come into place with the red-green ones – to the blessing of the Norwegian people. Yes, it was nuances out and went a few years ago, when the Right voted against ending a 100-year success story, where the Norwegian industry used hydropower to build up Norwegian industry, which after a few years fell back into state ownership after the contract institute had ceased. Today, the scheme is that one third of Norwegian hydropower — and rights — can be on foreign hands. This has not been our policy. I would warn against using this as an argument against the Right and against our commitment in this area, for history is a completely different one. The same applies to the question of the employer’s fee. It was the European Commission that in 2004 transformed the EU’s regional policy – against the interests of the Bondevik II government. A Norwegian system — as in the past — was put in place and reintroduced against, among other things. Interest of the Workers' Party. They wanted to put in place a completely different system, which also Bondevik II took to the EFTA Supervisory Authority, ESA, and tested there. This was rejected by ESA. All current conditions affecting the current practice of the issue of the employer’s fee were in place at the end of 2005 – a hundred percent in line with the direction of the Bondevik II government – and were incorporated into Norwegian legislation at the beginning of 2006. The criticism has been silent a lot since then, and I am amazed that this issue is being addressed today. I just register that you choose SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party instead of today picking up 71 million. kr from this budget line from the Tromsø-Bodø region to the capital, but there may be another debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e789	This debate has first and foremost clarified that the EEA Agreement will become a topic in the forthcoming election campaign because the issue is now fairly unclear with regard to the government parties. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed joy in his last speech that all parties are now underpinning the EEA Agreement. The speaker who had spoken before the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that is Aksel Hagen from the Socialist Left Party, went in to cancel the EEA Agreement, and so did the speaker who came after the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely Irene Lange Nordahl from the Central Party – she also wanted to cancel the EEA Agreement. This indicates that there's something creeping around here. It's undecided internally among the government parties. In the event of a new period of red-green majority in Stortinget, the Soria Moria agreement will be reviewed, it will be renegotiated. What comes out of it is difficult to imagine when we now see that the representatives of two of the government's three parties are increasingly excited in their argument against the EEA Agreement. The four opposition parties therefore fully agree on their position on the EEA Agreement as the main international agreement in Norway to ensure the Norwegian economy, Norwegian business and further development of well-being and prosperity. When I also hear the representatives of the Workers' Party try to raise themselves above the attitude of the Advance Party towards the EEA Agreement, I think it's a little comical. So Laila Gustavsen says that the Progress Party does not want to use the space for action contained in the EEA Agreement, whereas Marianne Marthinsen from the same party believes that the Progress Party, with its new proposal for the party programme, is jeopardising the EEA Agreement. So let me say that roughly in the middle of the two thrives the Progress Party is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e800	I don't know how many more rounds we're going to go on this particular question, but it's so that the Soria Moria Declaration of 2005 and the Government Platform of 2009 states that we're governing on the basis of the EEA Agreement. I think it has been reasonably clear in this debate that it is going to happen by a third government statement from a government of Stoltenberg after the election. We have also been a little more informed that at least one of the parties in the alternative constellation says that it is open for renegotiation both of the EEA Agreement and of the Schengen Agreement. I allow myself to believe, after hearing a number of contributions from the Right-wing Representatives, that a theoretical government like this will also end up based on the EEA Agreement. That's the way it is in this country. Until we do something fundamentally different in relation to EU membership, it remains like that. I feel a little need to say a few words on the subject of the free trade agreement and just state that there are no countries in Europe that have a free trade agreement with the EU, as we had in the 1970s. It's a fundamental misunderstanding that that's what Switzerland has. Switzerland has a completely separate Swiss solution, which is a broad set of agreements, which connects Switzerland to exactly the same four freedoms in goods, services, capital and labour as we do, but they have done it differently. In my opinion, it is a worse way than we do, because they do not have the dispute resolution mechanisms provided by the EEA Agreement. One of my first explanations from Tuesday is that all countries west of Belarus have at least one ‘swiss solution’ or more in relation to the EU. Therefore, it seems to me that it is not appropriate to go back to a 1970s agreement that concerns trade in goods. It has been a long time since the international economy was only about trade in goods, it is hardly primarily about today. Today, there are financial services, other services, work and capital movements. I would like to end by saying that I would very much like to be taken from this debate that the main focus of the government on the use of the space for action is the area of work, because there is a real concern in the trade movement, a real concern, not for the EEA Agreement as such – it is a misunderstanding – but that there should be an infection into Norwegian working life, in a country where things are going well, while there is a world out there in Europe where there is a lot of unemployment, an increasing willingness to accept worse conditions. We have made a good profit on labour immigration, it is good for the Norwegian economy. We are well aware that hundreds of thousands of new workers have arrived, but we are also well aware that this has happened within the framework of a negotiated legislation. Therefore, we will be careful to defend it within the framework of an EEA agreement we believe very strongly in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e813	There are some in this room who have not heard what we have said in this debate, and I just want to repeat it: we stand by the agreements we have concluded. It's true today, and it's true in the future. I fully agree with Svein Roald Hansen who says that debate is important, the absence of debate is dangerous. That is why we in the Central Party have welcomed this important debate on the EU and the EEA Agreement, not least in the light of the great challenges facing the European Union in economic policy: how to create a better future for all the peoples and all the peoples of this continent, in this region? Several have mentioned trade policy and said that it is an example of further protectionism. Let me repeat a few things that people should notice. Talking about Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, it is claimed that the intentions of this article are broken because it states that further liberalisation should be pursued. But what is elegantly forgotten is that it says that one should work for further liberalisation within the existing agricultural policy of the parties, ‘the existing agricultural policy of the parties’. This means, of course, that we should also take care of Norwegian interests when we work with the Article 19 agreement. A new Article 19 Agreement has been concluded. It has recently been liberalised, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. I've been negotiating it myself in an earlier phase. It provides a basis for increased trade, increased imports of cheese and meat and other commodities, in fact for increased exports of Norwegian agricultural products, so this is where it is taken care of. Over time, however, there is a significant increase in trade between the EU and Norway. Today we import over 50 pst. of the food we eat at all times. In addition, the customs changes made are within the WTO Agreement that all the parties in this Chamber have voted in favour of in the past. It's a very big paradox that you don't take into account that you've been on this race before, and now you're taking a break from it. I think that's a strange way of working with politics. We are committed to national interests. We are committed to caring for the interests of Norwegian farmers, but we are also committed to creating activities that allow growth in Norway and in Europe through more interaction in the future. Then I just want to say that when you so unequivocally oppose the proposal on customs which is now outlined by the government, it means that you have to vote in favour of another decision, that you still have to have a dollar. Then you go against Norwegian interests, and it's serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e829	It is dramatic to see several European countries having significant problems. It makes sense to see the unemployment rate of the 20s and the 30s. It makes a significant impression when youth unemployment reaches 50 pst. in some countries. It also makes the impression of seeing strikes and unrest, seeing countries with a recession that persist. However, these are problems primarily caused by national policies and political shortcomings. When countries like Greece, Spain and Ireland got their interest on government loans considerably reduced as a result of euro-cooperation, yes, it is not something we should owe to the European Union. It was something that was exclusively positive for all these countries. But they didn't use the space they had, they didn't spend the money they saved on interest payments, to make the right political choices. They lived above ability, and that's what we see first and foremost the contours of now. That's why we see a number of European countries that are now spinning and saving to achieve their savings. But for the right, the EEA Agreement is an agreement that has served us well. It ensures access for our export businesses and thus provides viable jobs in Norway. The EU is the most important political and economic community in our part of the world, and the EEA Agreement and the other agreements with the EU are our lifeline into that community. The EEA Agreement has obvious weaknesses, and it binds us to the EU without giving us full influence, but at the same time it is essential for Norwegian companies to be able to compete on equal terms in Europe. That's what's at the heart of Right's policy. We recognise that the increase in the scope of international regulations binds Norway to freedom of action, but the EEA Agreement does not contain mechanisms to take part in the agreement, nor is it an à la carte menu that some people seem to believe, from which we can only pick from. I understand the scepticism of the Norwegian people for EU membership when we look at the situation in Europe as it is today, but the EEA Agreement cannot and must not be linked to it. So I didn't say anything about the government's ability in other questions. I just mentioned the government's incompetence in European issues. Let me end with an important matter for history. When today’s government includes the differentiated employer fee as one of their major European political victories, it is said that the agreement was concluded with the EU in August 2005, it was only the signature of today’s government. I would like to congratulate the government on such a great victory, which has signed on such an important document, but it was actually negotiated by Minister of State Erna Solberg in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e840	It has been – I may not want to say an interesting debate, but it has at least been a debate on an important topic. I was among those who were very pleased with the result that NOU 2012: 2 ga. This is 911 pages, some people called it a call for help, but it is at least a good look-up and give a precise description of Norway’s position today. Then you might say that this mountain is the mountain that bore a mouse, because here's Meld. Item 5 for 2012–2013, only 97 pages. But the most important thing is not the number of pages, but what it says, and there's a lot about the space for action, 45 times actually the space for action is mentioned. It is the new mantra of Norwegian European policy, and then the question is what to fill it with. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has tried to provide some clarification. I think there's room in this area to go further and fill it with a more concrete content. The EU is developing rapidly, and the outcome of the current crisis in European countries is likely to be closer integration, at least among the euro area countries. No one receives a premium to guess that a country like Norway will become more marginalised in a more integrated Europe. There are several challenges to that. The EU is changing its way of working. They go from single directives to framework directives and joint programmes, thematic programmes. This makes it more difficult for Norway to sort these programmes in different departments, more difficult to clarify what is EEA-relevant, and it also delays processes and makes it more difficult to achieve what should be the main objective of the government, namely to enter into processes earlier. Now 2012: 2 shows it with all clarity. On page 97, there is a graph showing that many hundreds of directives have been delayed for several years in implementation, and this is very unfortunate, both for Norway and for Norwegian business. There may, of course, be good reasons why some directives are in the freezer for a while, but not many hundreds over many years, then something has to be done. The Ministry of the Environment concluded on its websites a few years ago that there were internal conflicts between departments that were one of the reasons for delaying the implementation of these directives. This is something the government has to address. So I would say that there are many people here today, the representative Valen was among them, who argued that the Right is true to the European Union, and that we have no critical sense of what comes from the European Union. I'm going to strongly distance that from that. However, we do not believe that the postal directive – which is the only directive this room has reserved for – is crucial because it is about the state having a monopoly on window envelopes weighing less than 50 grams and which are soon replaced by e-mail. There are not essential Norwegian interests; there are other issues that need to be more important than this if we are to use the right of reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e851	I'm not going to cross this out much longer, but since the question now was what we're going to fill the action room with: It was some of what I was inside in my last post. We have a special focus on the development of employment, and it's because we think it's good for the Norwegian economy, good for Norwegian workers and good for migrant workers that we ensure that we maintain the good arrangements we have, so we give workers participation and get responsibility and co-responsibility back. It has contributed to small differences, it has helped us to transform together. So on the specific question that I now got, that's the answer. What's going on is that we still don't really hear from the Right what they're going to use the action space for. I agree that it is important to have directives implemented. Both in Norway and in a number of EU countries, implementation of the directives is sought, and one of the reasons is the large scale. It is also quite right – and we also said that in the previous European message I was delighted to be in writing, in 2000, as the then Secretary of State for Thorbjørn Jagland, Norway's largest EU member – that we are going to go into a time when the European Union is developing away from the European Union we adapted in 1994. This is precisely why we have now expanded the number of adaptation mechanisms, accession mechanisms, participation in several programmes, participation in several organisations and networks towards the EU. So there's a point from the right that I share, that the EU should be actively used, the EEA should be actively used, but I wonder, what is the right space for action? We have still not heard anything about that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e862	The right will include: use the space for action to work for the government of which it is also concerned, namely to counter social dumping. There is no disagreement between the parties in the Storting that it is important to combat social dumping, and the Right has also supported several of the proposals promoted by the government in its package of measures. We have not supported everyone, and that is not because we are opposed to social dumping, but because some of those proposals do not think we are right to address the challenges we face, and will have other, very unfortunate consequences for the development of Norway. So that fight we share. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is drawing up a policy area with which he will fill this space for action, and I expect it to be an example. It's about how we're there early in the processes. My example of the fact that we spend many years here in Norway clarifying whether a directive is EEA-relevant shows clearly that then the train is going to affect the EU. If we are to be able to influence the European Union, we need to clarify early on whether it is EEA-relevant, and get into the processes at both parliamentary and government level. The fact that the government has left the national expert position in the European Parliament open for more than three years is an example of the lack of follow-up to the mandate of active European policy to fill this space for action. There is a lot of politics and important Norwegian interests that the Right is going to promote in Brussels, but it is important how we do it, and this government is unfortunately lagging behind in a lot of important issues. The government was taken to bed, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Parliament had been underestimated as a political arena. And then, of course, there is a responsibility on the political parties in this Chamber to exercise influence through their political groups in the European Parliament. But the government also has to deal with the fact that Parliament has become an important player in European decision-making processes, and I believe that the government has largely failed in its responsibilities. Another challenge of EU policy development is that more decisions are moved into agencies, and Norway is important to be present and Norway is using the possibilities of influence that we have, even if it is limited. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and I would like to agree that the best thing will be Norwegian membership of the European Union, because then we would actually be able to have a vote in Brussels, but if it is not the case right now, Norwegian government councils will have to use the opportunities they have to meet at informal ministerial meetings, which they do not do. There's something the government should deal with immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e873	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has had the word twice and therefore gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e876	There will be considerable differences in a European policy led by the Right and the European policy we see with today's government. The main difference is that we want to be in the early stages of the process, we want to be in the development of the policy, not to be behind and just to be able to answer yes or veto. It's a political choice. When we see that Norwegian Governments do not want to use Brussels as a political workshop, do not want to be present in Brussels when important issues for Norway are discussed, it is a political choice. Then you choose the internal disagreement here and you don't use the possibilities that exist. Already today, the Right has an active European policy. We are present in all the bodies we can, especially in relation to the European Parliament and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We are close partners and participants in the different forums of the EPP, and this also means that we have a positive impact as a party in what the party group is doing. Finally, this is about political will. That will has the Right, and that's what we're going to use to influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e885	I join the representative of Astrup: I do not know what I think about the quality of the debate, but it has now been a debate. What strikes me is that those who may be the tallest in this room say they want more European debate, rather not want it. When there are opinions or reflections that the right-hand side doesn't end up completely, it's dangerous, and it's disturbing. I think some from the Right have been concerned about characterising the government's internal life and having it as the main focus in the discussion, and it has even been said that SV's programme proposals create uncertainty for Norway and Europe. Although the chairman of the Programme Committee, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, is present and correct is the Council of State, it may be taking a little hard on. We have experience in discussing Europe in Norway. That's a good thing, and I don't think we're going to get hurt with that. I believe that the focus on which the Right has focused in this debate – not so much the Progress Party, because there you have both EU and EU opponents – is bottom up in the fact that the Right stands for a professional policy and a labour-life policy that is closer to its party-mates in Europe than what we have built very much of the Norwegian community, and it will be clearer either with Norway in the EU or with the Right in government. So it's tempting, without going to start a whole new round of debate now, because I don't think anyone wants to, to ask the opposition back, if you're so concerned with clarifying parties between the opposite planes: is it such that a new government with the Right will join, will despite a clear number of people and seek EU membership? For many of the Right Politicians, that is the purpose and meaning of life. Or will the Right promise that they will not apply for Norwegian EU membership for the next period? It would have been very interesting to hear a clear answer to, both from the Right and from the other bourgeois parties and what they mean. To be so pleased with the EEA Agreement as some from the right-hand side today have said that they are, it is interesting to hear how bad they are talking about the EEA Agreement when they travel around the European movement and argue for Norwegian EU membership, almost for one reason alone that the EEA Agreement is the least democratic instrument Norway has ever been part of – it is so bad that we have to get in and get some influence right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e897	Finally, as it may not have been sufficiently answered, I just want to confirm that there is now agreement with the European Parliament to put in place a new national expert. We have formally agreed to this, and the position will be announced in the near future. I think it was right to draw attention to that. I would just like to stress that the representative of Astrup, the representative of Skovholt Gitmark and I have in common, is that we are EEA followers, and we thought EU membership was even better. Then I think we all recognise that it is not immediately forthcoming, and that is why we base our policy on the EEA. I am pleased to join the Right in the main elements of the government's message, which is to use the action space in early presence on a broad front, choose their battles and work systematically. I believe that, because I think the Right engagement for the EU is genuine and clear, and has always been, just like my and large parts of the Workers' Party. What I am still striving to achieve is: what policy will you pursue in addition to being for the EU and the EEA? Is there any topic where – alternatively to the government – you want to put other things on the EU agenda? The answer we get – and I'm sorry, President, but that's why I take the floor again – is that you have to be early and use the space for action, but to what? Is that one thing? When you've thought so much about the EU, there must be at least one theme where you want to use Norwegian influence to make the EU a little different, and it must be more than just agreeing with the government's work against social dumping, because that's where I think the original is best.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e906	The claim made by the representative Astrup about how suddenly the topic of social dumping has become a subject of concern to the right cannot be contested. I want to start from what is the Right Programme proposal for the next majority period. On 65 pages, the right has found it worthy to mention the words ‘social dumping’ once. It is in the context of a proposal to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. It's fine. That's what we've been working on for seven years, and we've done it evenly, so I agree with the Right that's important, but on 65 sides, that's just one point. What they spend a lot of time on, on the other hand, is writing about the need for flexibility in working life, Sunday-open shops, making it easier to hire people without a permanent job, and continuing to liberalise the work environment law. The Progress Party stands for the same policy in a similar way. They live in their own world, I'd say. In fact, they suggest that it be easier to pick up non-resident labour to Norway – in fact from Europe because it is the kind of immigrants the Progress Party wants. They have very few points about social dumping, in fact -- as far as I know -- none. I want to say – just as Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide urges: Where are you in the fight against international social dumping and what is going on in Europe? What do you take as your starting point to document their involvement? In the programme work, political action and comments here in Stortinget – what can you point to when it comes to the commitment to social dumping in Europe? How have you specifically raised this matter with their sister parties in the European Parliament, for example, when they have made policies that affect us, in the field of the working environment? I would like to have quite specific examples of what the Right has used its meetings with its sister parties in the European Parliament for, on the issue of the working environment and social dumping, and what has been the content of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e917	The President would only kindly draw attention to the fact that all speech should be addressed to the President and not to representatives in the Chamber. The representative Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e922	It was Mr. Skovholt Gitmark's promise of a more active European policy, whose right came back into the government offices, which led me to take the floor. It will remain to be seen, and in that case it would be pleasant, for the last time the Right was in the government offices, there was not much activity. The appropriations for European information were cut in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget. There were no half-yearly statements in the UK on European policy. You could have done that. It wouldn't cost anything if it was the budget you were worried about. It was the new government that presented a big message on active European policies, such as: have led us to have these half-yearly debates, which have led to the Storting being a member of staff in Brussels, and to a much greater activity. It was this government that made sure that we got the European investigation, which is now using the Right and everyone else as an important reference book.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e929	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e932	It may be worth reminding the previous speaker that it was Right who suggested that there should be half-yearly presentations in the Storting, and it was nice that the government finally joined it, after there had been intense resistance from among others. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs on that front. Concrete areas in which we are concerned: Well, let me mention two areas that I work a lot on – energy and environmental policy. I do not know a single substantive piece of environmental policy that does not originate or originate in Brussels. Norway must then be present and influence the framework conditions that affect us, and we must be offensive, ambitious and contribute to moving in the right direction. The same thing applies to energy. Norway is a major energy policy force in Europe. There is a lot of exciting – almost paradigm shifts – going on in energy thinking in Europe at the moment. Norway must not just be a listener – we must be actively involved and contribute to the design of our framework conditions. In terms of working life, labour policy is adopted within the framework of the EEA in this house, and we have a strong commitment to social dumping, and we will continue to have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e943	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e946	Astrup considered that the Postal Directive was an insufficient example of this government’s involvement in Europe. Another example could be more relevant to the challenge just presented by the representative Gustavsen. The government said that the Monti II regulation – which stated that the campaign critique should be proportionate and in line with EU rules – was not something we should bow down to in Norway. It might be interesting to hear whether the Right would be on the side of European and Norwegian trade union movements on that issue, or on the side of their sister parties, which they have talked a lot about in this debate, who want to introduce this regulation. It would have been a good test on the Right's fight against social dumping. However, we did not get an answer to the challenge from Gustavsen, and I do not think that is accidental. Nor did I get an answer as to whether a new bourgeois government with the Right will apply for EU membership or not. It's not just a question that's interesting in this room. I believe that the overwhelming majority of the Norwegian population opposed to EU membership will soon have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e953	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e967	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual submissions. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e976	Since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, Norway and the other EFTA countries have contributed to social and economic cohesion in Europe through various financial instruments. Over these years, we've contributed more than 3.2 billion. EUR or around 25 billion. kr. Since the 2004 enlargement, we have had a two-part system – an EFTA system and a separate Norwegian system. This special event came about because there were expectations of a significant increase in contributions from the EU, since there were ten new countries that really needed a handshake after 50 years behind the Iron Curtain, which had divided Europe into two, not only political and democratic, but also economic and social. Our two EFTA partners, Iceland and Liechtenstein, found it difficult to anticipate such an increase. These funds are not a quota. This is our contribution to economic and social development in Europe – just as the EU countries contribute among themselves. Balancing differences is an important part of the project’s internal market. The Committee stresses this in its position because these contributions are often referred to as a quota in the public debate. But no country pays any quota to be part of the internal market. There, all 30 countries contribute with their markets, where economic activity takes place within a common regulatory framework, and where both businesses and persons are protected by this legislation. Experience from previous periods with EEA funds is good. They have contributed to a better economy in the recipient countries, in the areas agreed upon. The Committee welcomes the fact that the contributions made during the period under consideration also aim to strengthen the link between the beneficiary and the beneficiary countries. It is good and must make it visible in the country of destination, where the funds come from. Traveling around many of the EU Member States that have received contributions from the community is made visible through the EU logo. Similarly, we must place small Norwegian flags, if not physically, so mentally, in these countries through our contributions. The European investigation proposed that we should agree with the European Union on a fixed amount, for example. a share of GDP, in order to avoid these four-year negotiations. The Committee rejects this. This is a voluntary contribution, which, once the major economic and social differences in the internal market have disappeared, must be superfluous. If this is tied up to a fixed size, it becomes more demanding to wind up the plan once. However, the Committee reiterates what it said when the Storting approved the government’s agreement four years ago: the EU cannot expect these contributions to make strong leaps every four years. The size may not only be assessed in the light of the need for it. It must also be assessed in the light of its voluntary contribution and the fact that the EFTA countries contribute to an effective and growth-promoting internal market simply by being part of this market. Financial contributions cover several important sectors and are linked to the EU's own programmes to generate new economic growth. I am not going into the different programme areas or countries, but I would just like to point out one area that the Committee highlights in its position, namely that 10 pst. of the relevant programmes in Romania and Bulgaria, the situation of the space people shall be improved. It supports the EU Commission’s space integration strategy, which identifies four key areas: access to education, access to work, access to health and access to housing. It is essentially a unanimous committee behind the vote. The progress party has an additional comment that I assume the party itself justifies. It addresses the need for good control of the funds. We all agree on that, but there's nothing to suggest that that's not the case. At the same time, the lot points to the need to use as little as possible of such funds as possible for administrative costs and as much as possible for actions. There is hardly any disagreement on this either, but there is an underlying criticism in the comments of the Progress Party, for which we do not find any basis, on the way in which the EEA funds are managed and used, which is why the party stands alone on these comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e999	The representative Svein Roald Hansen explained to the extent of our remarks. The reason why we want to have this controlled, I'll explain a little bit more. The party to the progress is of the opinion that the EEA Agreement is good and that it should be continued. Nevertheless, it is necessary to keep an eye on developments and also discuss whether some aspects of the agreement might need to be modernised somewhat. But I would have said once again, so that there is no basis for misunderstandings: the EEA Agreement is an important tool for Norway and not least for the movement of the four freedoms. Nevertheless, there are aspects of the use of EEA funds that we should be particularly closely following at a time of recession and economic crisis in Europe. In his statement on Tuesday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that corruption and weak governance have long been a challenge in many places in Europe. I want to add that organised crime is also part of the challenges that perhaps the weakest countries face. These problems hardly wane when more and more people have no fixed income, are in danger of losing their homes and perhaps with distress and scarce things to put food on the table every day. It is then important, as the Committee also points out, that the EEA funds are targeted at areas where Norway has special competence and builds up under the EU's own programmes. The most important thing is to follow the funds, so that we can be sure that they come to the right address. So the control activities of the EEA funds should remain central in the coming years. I would probably have been more comfortable with Norway itself for the follow-up of the EEA funds, which is a large amount of money. The Committee's comments also state that we are pleased that agreement has been reached with several beneficiary countries on programmes to improve the situation of the space people. Yeah – and that's great. The Rome people are the largest minority in Europe with their ca. 15 million, no one knows exactly how many are involved. But I have from secure sources in Romania – and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, after the Storting meeting, would like to have a reference to my secure sources – that projects that would end up with the space population, earmarked funds, end up on the wrong hands. It's clear it's upsetting a minority that's as cuddly as this, when organizations that come out to talk on behalf of the space people, drive around in fancy cars and rent fancy houses to office rooms, while nothing happens in the villages where the space people live and live. If we had better control of the EEA funds, we would also have the opportunity to make sure that the money came where they were going, which had consequences from the increase in the quality of life and not least the belief in the future, in the EU and in EEA funds. The Progress Party is of the opinion that good control and close follow-up of the use of EEA funds can contribute to the possibility of freedom, action and security also in the poorest countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1014	As we have just discussed in the previous case, the government will see Norway as an active participant in European cooperation and in European integration, and that we will express concrete and clear solidarity with common European challenges. Norway’s contribution through the EEA funds is an expression of precisely this exposure. It is based on the vision of an economically and socially stable Europe, where social and economic inequalities are being built up. It is therefore gratifying to record that the entire Committee is behind this view and supports the active European policy of the government, of which the EEA funds are part. I would like to thank the Committee for a good and interesting attitude with a clear emphasis on priority areas. As the Committee rightly points out, the EEA funds are not part of the EEA Agreement. We are not legally obliged to make contributions, and it is important to stress that this is not a payment for access to the internal market. That is why it is not the government's policy to make the arrangements permanent. But we can all see that the challenges Europe is facing today require answers. Several of the beneficiary countries are strongly influenced by the effects of the financial crisis. The consequences for people and society are growing unemployment, reduced well-being, social unrest and demanding transformations. This was also a key theme of the EU/EEA statement. We believe that what we are doing through the EEA funds is to contribute to stability and to support democratic development processes in the recipient countries. It's good that there's cross-political agreement to back it up. Then I want to say a little word to Karin S. Woldseth and the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee. They address important issues relating to corruption and the costs of managing the EEA funds. Corruption is a challenge in many countries in Europe. Corruption is a challenge that could potentially threaten the effective implementation of programmes and projects supported by EEA funds. We therefore place great emphasis on risk-monitoring, remedial measures and careful monitoring and control of the implementation of projects. To strengthen this work, we have entered into a partnership with the anti-corruption network Transparency International. This is an important agreement that, among other things, include integrity and corruption risk assessments in the recipient countries. Effort evaluations and an overview of issues of financial irregularities are regularly updated on the scheme’s website. Extensive control has been carried out and the previous phase of the EEA funds has revealed very few corruption cases. So the question of the cost of managing the EEA funds. I agree with the representatives of the Progress Party that the share of administrative support must be as low as possible, so that it is used as much as possible for projects and other actions. But this is precisely the case, for example. because we want to counteract corruption, we need to have a certain capacity for the necessary control measures and follow-up in countries to ensure that the objectives of the schemes are achieved. To put it another way: a small amount of bureaucracy is necessary to achieve another objective, which is to combat corruption. Through a secretariat in Brussels, we, together with the other two donor countries Iceland and Liechtenstein, have an effective instrument for the sound management of funds. This Secretariat has limited administrative costs, both on the donor side and on the recipient side, and these seem to be at an appropriate level. In addition to purely administrative costs, costs are incurred for participation in Norwegian cooperation areas. Overall, we have a good overview of how the costs of EEA funds have been allocated. I do not immediately see any need to carry out a study of this, but I stress again that the government is very concerned about keeping the costs of administration at a reasonable and sound level. The government's objective is to demonstrate that Norway is a stable and reliable partner, that we contribute to common European objectives in the fields of climate and environment, research and innovation, the building of competences and the strengthening of fundamental European values, such as democracy, the rule of law and tolerance. Norway is, through the EEA funds, one of the most important contributors to civil society in central European countries. In a Europe where we once again have to be prepared to fight for democratic standards that we may have adopted in the past, we are making a difference in important areas of society. By representing less prosperous EU countries, we show solidarity, and we show that Norway is an active and committed partner in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1031	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1045	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition of the individual submissions. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1054	On Thursday a week ago, the Council of State, Rigmor Aasrud, stood on this chair and presented the government's plans for more efficient administration. One of her main points was that the most important thing we can do to get more efficient management is digitize it. She justified this in the following way: ‘It will reduce the administrative resources, while making administration more user-oriented and user-friendly.’ In this context, she mentioned the follow-up to the digitisation programme, which is now putting pressure on further digitisation across the public sector. She referred to the Loan Fund, the Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs as good examples of agencies, which through digitisation projects have managed to reduce their administrative costs. The matter we are dealing with now is a concrete example of this. The budget will today adopt amendments to Section 29 of the National Act to enable the national authorities to obtain information from other public bodies, without prejudice to professional secrecy. It happens by exploiting the possibilities that lie in what some of us are still walking around calling new technology. At present, the Civil Code provides that the matter in question may be required to provide information which may be relevant to the decision and to provide the necessary documentation. It stays standing, but with slightly different practical consequences than before. To date, for many users, this provision has resulted in a process in which the same information has to be submitted several times to different departments or where they themselves need to obtain information from one public body in order to pass it on to another. With the new provisions proposed here, people applying for Norwegian citizenship can drop this in the future. In order to become a Norwegian citizen, the applicant is required to fulfil the conditions for permanent residence under the Foreign Affairs Act. In this context, information on income and wealth is needed. The same applies if it is appropriate to withdraw a Norwegian citizenship. In addition, information on employment, social security and social assistance, training and police investigations is needed. It is also necessary to demonstrate whether the applicant has completed any required Norwegian training, and last but not least: the conditions must be met at the time of the decision. It imposes additional requirements for up-to-date and complete information. A unanimous committee therefore states that information necessary to deal with matters under the Civil Code can be obtained directly from the police, the equality authorities, the Labour and Welfare Administration, the Loan Fund and from the municipalities by means of directives. The person who is able to obtain such information shall be specified in the instructions. The same applies to the types of cases in which the information may be obtained, the persons for whom information may be obtained and the information which may be obtained. It provides a flexible system if, in the future, it would be necessary to obtain other information, or more, in the civil matters. Then we don't have to go through the whole process of legislative changes. The proposal refers to the fact that the new provisions have a background to the so-called Impact Programme, which is the development programme of the foreign and national authorities in the field of ICT. The programme has been in place since 2007 and is now beginning to deliver good results in the form of a more efficient management that will deal with matters more quickly and provide a better user service. Through today's amendment of the law, we ensure that further gains are made from this significant investment. The management will save resources, the information gathered will be more accurate. It gives better decisions, faster procedures and better control. The users save time and get a better service. In its work, the Committee has not considered it necessary to hold its own hearing on the matter. 28 instances have already spoken out, most of them positive. Some have raised questions about privacy. It is an important and relevant question. However, a unanimous committee supports the government’s view that privacy is adequately protected – and recommends the legislative changes. Finally, I would also like to remind you that a unanimous increase of 11 June this year gave the foreign authorities access to the automatic collection of information, through similar changes in the Foreign Affairs Act as we now recommend in the Citizens' Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1078	The proposed amendments to the Act of Citizenship allow the national authorities to obtain information from other public bodies, without prejudice to professional secrecy. Where it is considered necessary for information on the case, they may require the police, the authorities responsible for the equation, the Nav, the Loan Fund or the municipalities to supply information which may be relevant to the case. Where a public body has information about a person’s personal circumstances, the starting point is that such information is confidential, unless otherwise provided by law. I have to admit that when I came here, I was surprised that public offices today do not have the opportunity to exchange such information, and of course I support the bill. The same issue was recently addressed in the media with regard to people who find it difficult to track down when going to settlement, where Nav does not have the ability to report, for example: address. This is a problem I also think we should look at. The consultation proposal has received broad support from the hearing bodies. It is made visible that important considerations, such as professional secrecy and privacy, are being taken into account. The citizen authorities have no opportunity to obtain more information than is necessary in each case. The goal of the change is two-part. A person who complies with the requirements of citizenship will have his/her case dealt with more quickly. It's good for someone who will become a Norwegian citizen. In addition, it will lead to less bureaucracy. Simplifying and reducing red tape are some of the Central Party's taboos. In addition, it is resource-saving for both the applicant and the administration that relevant information can be obtained automatically. The use of resources is reduced for both applicants and case handlers, by providing the user with information once, instead of filling in several different forms with the same information repeatedly in different public bodies. Electronic information collection directly from several bodies will significantly reduce the processing time so that the national authorities are able to obtain structured data, directly within the processing system. At the same time, we will have greater assurance that the management will use correct information. It reduces the risk that citizenship will have to be withdrawn at a later date. Information from Nav on employment, social security and social assistance may be relevant. The condition of not being punished or under investigation makes information from the police relevant. Many applicants have the right and obligation to participate in training in Norwegian and social sciences. Confirmation of such participation will be important information held by municipalities. The income data of the Equation Authorities will, of course, be able to confirm whether the income requirement has been met. The amendments to the Civil Code provide greater certainty that decisions are taken on the right basis. The proposal has received broad support from the Hearing Officers. Important considerations such as privacy, professional secrecy and the need to obtain no more information than is necessary have been addressed. That is why the Senterpartiet supports the legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1099	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The President will ask the Council of State now sitting in the Chamber to remain in office until the Minister of Finance arrives. The Minister of Finance is not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1115	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1129	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1143	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1157	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose giving rise to three lines of response following contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1166	It is an exciting proposal we are going to debate. It is not every day that we in the Grand Duchy debate the whole of the fundamental wall or the foundation of economic policy, nor so often do we experience that in these matters there is such a fundamental disagreement both across the blocks and internally in the blocks that they are now saying to rule Norway. The main aim of the proposal is to establish a new anchorage, a new rule on how to manage the oil wealth. After what I understand, it's going to be done in two ways. One is to put a roof on public consumption, that is, what's going to be above the government budget. On the other hand, a different framework for so-called socio-economic profitable investments is to be established, to be taken on the outside of the State budget. I'm busy with a lot of things. I am debating this, and should like to do that until the cramp takes me here today too. But I just want to tell you one thing first: it's that those who have defended today and the last ten years today's rule of action for the use and phase-in of oil money, that is. the current government, the former government of Stoltenberg, Per-Kristian Foss when he was Minister of Finance – yes, you can go quite far back, back to the rule was established – the parties, today and in the years that have passed, have no responsibility for proof, the burden of proof, because whether it is a good idea to change the rule now, because the results speak for themselves. There have been different economic cycles, there have been different results from different governments, but there is no doubt that most professional environments both in Norway and abroad will state that the rule on the use of oil money, the rule of action, has served Norway well. Unemployment is low, even after a very severe economic downturn in 2008-2009, employment is high, the growth in the economy is good, the health care situation is orderly in government finances. Therefore, it is those who now say that they will both throw away today's government and replace this rule with something new, which should have very good, well-founded suggestions and reasons why one wants to throw such a well-functioning rule on the boat. There, I do not think that, either in the proposal or in the Committee's work on the matter or in the public debate, the Progress Party, as the sole proposer, and as the only one who supports this proposal, has provided good enough explanations. Someone has asked me, is this something new from the Progress Party, a new line? No, I won't say it is. When the rule of action was established, it was more than ten years ago, the party of progress was against it. During the period that we have behind us, they have at several crossroads, among other things. argued against it – they had their own idea and proposal for a foreign budget in their own time, that many investments were to be lifted out of the state budget and entered into a foreign budget. Then they were no longer in favour of foreign budgets, and when the financial crisis hit Norway, there were more, and also in the alternative proposal, who set up an idea that less oil money should be spent than the government. Now you're back on track that somehow you're going to come around today's rule of action and open up to spend more oil money than today. I cannot understand the proposal in any other way. What else would be the purpose of this? I would strongly warn against that, and I am absolutely sure that Jan Tore Sanner and other speakers from the Right will say the same thing as me, that as far as the substance of the proposal is concerned, he does not think it will hold. For example, investments in the North Sea — or elsewhere on a Norwegian super-profit base — cannot be compared with large business returns in terms of dividends, taxes, etc. – and building roads. I'm really for roads, but roads in themselves don't give my own income. Weighing in ourselves is most of the places in our country, because we're quite few inhabitants, and because we live in the long term, a cost. Roads are something I'm very much for, but you have to discuss it within the framework of what a small, open economy tolerates. Both for purely political reasons – because there is broad agreement in the main hall, to reject the proposal – and also because the professional, factual arguments are not present, I am pleased that the Progress Party is all alone on this proposal here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1179	It was very strange here. But what it wasn't was one argument against what's in this document. It was a history of the Workers' Party's production of the Advance Party's alternative fiscal policy and a caricature of another party's political stance, but there was not one argument as to why one should not distinguish between consumption and investment, except that the representative Mikalsen mentioned some roads up north as he thought it was very important to build. When we say that we want to distinguish consumption from profitable investments, it's because we don't want to get a society that lives on social security. In today's society, public consumption of oil money has become extremely high, and more and more people are living on public transfers. The Progress Party wants to invest for the future, we want to create jobs. Then it is not useful to have an artificial distinction, with a 4 pst rule on the return of the pension fund, which otherwise began to be 4,75 pst. – admitted by Prime Minister Stoltenberg. Yes, it was estimated at 4.75 pst, but then you took a safety margin and put it down to 4 pst. Today, the governor says it should be on 3 pst. Then the responsible economic policy, regardless of how you spend the money. The money can be used for anything within the framework of the State budget, and it is equally responsible whether it is 3 pst., 4 pst. or 4,75 pst. – it is equally responsible every time. It's not credible. It is not the case that in 2001 the Labour Party laid the foundations for Norway’s economically responsible policy when trying to phase in money from the oil fund. The base wall goes back a long way. The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen should know that the ground wall was not laid in 2001, but much longer, as we had no oil revenues to use at all – and we were able to balance the budgets even without oil money. We had no chance of balancing the budget today without oil money. We would have seen this in a quite similar situation as the one in southern Europe, where they have no oil money to spend, but have a huge debt, because we spend money on consumption instead of investing in the future -- building new roads and doing what makes sense, and creating jobs. It's hip-hop for the representative, Micasen, how the oil money is used. It's sad. It's not like you've found the recipe in the eternal sky – or what I'm going to call it – when you've found exactly this 4 pst. rule. There are alternatives. Instead of caricing the options, you should argue against them. In fact, I think that the chairman of the Financial Committee should be too good to carve out the financial policies of other parties, not least when you have more than 20 p.m. by the population aged between 18 and 65 on social security. Then you should be a little careful about caricing other games. In fact, building roads around Norway today introduces tolls and establishes toll companies. These toll companies have to borrow money to build these roads. And then how do you finance these paths? Well, they have to raise the money and capital abroad through bonds. And what do you pay for those bonds? Yes, an average interest rate of 3 pst. When the State pension fund places its money in debt securities abroad — in exactly the same countries — the average is 1.8 pst. refunded. Is that a sensible and responsible economic policy? Is it so incredibly difficult to imagine that we don't have to go through Germany to build roads in Norway, when we have the money here? Do we have to buy bonds in Germany instead of building the roads directly – without going through tolls and via Germany? Actually, we're not. In the situation we are, we should invest in economically profitable investments. It is not the case that the money so-called within the framework of the State budget is within the framework of the State budget – no. When Statkraft needed money, of course, they could only be transferred via the state budget. But you wouldn't, because then you had to cut somewhere else. Every time you have billions of dollars outside the state budget, you argue that there is no pressure in the Norwegian economy. Then it's all right to spend a lot of money outside the state budget, because there's no pressure in the Norwegian economy. There is no credibility in that kind of budgeting. I ask the Council of State to clarify why there is no alternative way of looking at Norwegian fiscal policy, but just the way in which the government invented by chance – granted by Prime Minister Stoltenberg – and which should have been 4.75 pst., which was 4 pst., and which now might be 3 pst. Why is that the only option?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1194	The President assumes that Mr Tybring-Gjedde should make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1202	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde then brought up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1205	Let me start by saying that we have reason to be proud in Norway — not least political Norway — of how we have managed oil wealth. Oil assets are assets to be managed for the benefit of both current and future generations. There are probably few — if any — examples of countries that have come quickly to great wealth, which have not overarched wealth, and which have also undermined the rest of the economy. So far, I think we have reason to be proud of the way we manage our oil wealth. The debate raised in this draft document is not new. There has been a long discussion about investment versus consumption and how much will be used for the different purposes. There is also an old discussion about whether it makes sense to have an action rule or not. It is not just the Progress Party that has called into question the action rule. This was also done by the Center Party – ten months before the 2005 Grand Prix. Marit Arnstad, who is now in government, was then the parliamentary leader of the Central Party. When she presented the Centre's alternative budget for 2005, she characterised the rule of action as a dogma without content. I record that, fortunately, the Center Party has moderated its designation of the rule of action. The right is behind the broad consensus that has existed for two decades — first with the establishment of the oil fund, later renamed the pension fund. We also believe that the rule of action is a sensible and flexible rule that ensures a smooth phase-in and return of oil money, while at the same time managing the wealth to the satisfaction of those who come after us. It's going to be a little bit halfway when you make the economic debate in Norway just a discussion about the chalk line that's set for how much money is going to be spent. The development of the Norwegian economy, our ability to support well-being, depends primarily on labour and labour. It was seen when the rule of action was adopted. Then the government – then the Stoltenberg I government – said: ‘It shall therefore not cause a significant loss of revenue in the rest of the economy until the increased freedom of action granted by the petroleum revenues has been exhausted.’;» That's a little bit of the core of the way we use the oil revenue. Since 2006, i.e. after the red-green government took over, productivity growth in Norway has fallen and is today lower than that of our trading partners. If the use of oil revenue helps us to have lower productivity growth over time than we would otherwise have, the loss of well-being is eaten up very quickly – the gain of oil revenue. That is why – also in 2001 it said: ‘The Government therefore attaches considerable importance to the use of the space for action to increase the use of oil revenues in a way that will also enhance the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Lower taxes and taxes can improve working conditions for business to enhance competitiveness. Similarly, actions for improved infrastructure, as well as actions to generate new knowledge through research and development, will contribute to enhancing growth capacity.’.» This pronounced the Stoltenberg I government. At that time, a broad majority in Stortinget joined it. In this treatment it is alarming that only the four non-socialist parties join these wise formulations in St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001. It might have been interesting to hear why the government parties no longer support the use of oil revenues, how we use them into the Norwegian economy, actually is crucial to our growth capacity and how we can carry our well-being in the years that are coming. Let me just say in the end that the Right does not agree with the proposal of the Progress Party, but we are pleased that the Progress Party also recognises the need for an anchor fixation in the economy. We are pleased that the four non-socialist parties support the fact that the use of oil revenue is absolutely crucial to our ability to bear the welfare of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1233	We are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party on a new anchor for economic policy, where the rule of action for the use of oil revenues is to be replaced by a new model, and how much more money is to go to investment and less money is to go to operation, as it is called. Increased appropriations for investment shall mainly be linked to socially profitable investments. This means that less money will go to socio-economic — so-called — unprofitable investments. There's a lot one could have said about this proposal. It is a proposal for a new anchor fastener — in reality a new anchor fastener for more use of money in the state budget — and at the same time a clear indication that more money should go to what is defined as economically profitable. What is so socially profitable investment? In the transport sector – which we often debate in this Chamber, and which we are about to debate in the context of the national transport plan – the concept of a cost-benefit approach to socio-economic investment is being used. There's not a lot of investment going through it right now on the positive side. It's the big social investment around the big cities; Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. The rest of the country – and there aren't just a few roads up there in the north, as Tybring-Gjedde called it, that's the rest of the country – doesn't get through this loop. So, in reality, the leadership in the transport sector, but also in other major, heavy investment areas, will be a marked centralisation of the budget – by the use of money – in this country. The Progress Party should come forward and tell how to cut investment in the rest of the country, for example. in the transport sector. What about spending less on operating oil money? There is also a clear line in the budget: more on investments, less on operations. So what's the operation in the state budget? Well, it's the operation of hospitals, it's the operation of the railway, it's the operation of the road, it's the transfers to the municipal sector, it's the care of the elderly, it's the schools of childhood and high school, it's kindergartens, etc. It's the construction of the welfare state we're talking about. Much less money will be spent on this, and that means a large cut in the budgets for these purposes. Where's the Progress Party going to cut? At the same time, when we take into account that the Progress Party proposes large tax reductions in the order of 100 billion. kr over a four-year period, then the Progress Party gets a big explanation problem, which I hope they can help clarify in this debate. How is this to be related? The proposal for a new anchor for economic policy as presented is, in effect, a proposal to reduce the use of money for the operation of schools, for the operation of hospitals, for the operation of universities. At the same time, there is a shift in investment policy, from spending money across the country to mainly using it in the central strata of the country. It is a proposal for a large-scale centralisation. I am pleased that the Progress Party is alone on this proposal so far, but I expect the parties that will cooperate with the Progress Party during this four-year period to be very clear that this is a policy they do not agree with. It is expected that there will be a clear clarification – much clearer than the one that Mr Sanner made in his speech – in the further debate. And I'm glad that the government and government parties will not at all approach the ideas promoted in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1250	The principle of phase-in of oil money into the economy is one of the biggest and most fundamental questions we address in Norwegian policy. It is obvious that there is such a broad majority on the Stortinget who are gathering to reject the Progress Party's proposal to set aside the rule of action. It is so important that I quote from the setting: ‘The majority underline that the rule of action is more than an economic dash. There is a social contract between politicians and the Norwegian people, which has changed governments over time. [[...]] The majority indicate that since 2001, alternating governments have spent 11 years building up the legitimacy and credibility of the rule of action. That credibility shall not be shaken away." This is clear speech. It must be read as an ultimatum from the Progress Party's partners on who will be responsible for shooting in any Progress Party/Right Order when the economic policy course is to be drawn up. So what the Progress Party will set instead of the action rule. Here they partially open doors by suggesting that ‘economic, profitable investments in, inter alia, infrastructure’ should be prioritised. From the Center Party's side, we are quite a few in that the wealth we are now so lucky to possess must benefit the future. We do that both by saving oil money through state pension funds abroad and by building an infrastructure that provides the basis for taking full use of Norway through value creation and construction. The red-green government can be proud of its investment in infrastructure, through road, track and broadband. In 2009, we delivered a national transport plan that led to a promise increase of 100 billion. kr, and next year we will present a plan that will sum up the last four years as an overfill of the framework, and that will also have similar ambitious targets for the next four years. So the red-green government can sum up so far that with the roads that are either open to traffic, under construction, or have a start in the near future, it is built, for example. 1000 km by new national road – that corresponds to the route Stavanger-Oslo-Trondheim. It is also such that when all railway projects are completed, it will be 100 km by double-track railway. And that's how today goes over 90 pst. by passenger train on route. I mention this to stress that the Progress Party does not need to reject the action rule to participate in an infrastructure bet. So to the next element in the Progress Party's new anchor fixture – we remember Sanner's joy that the Progress Party has actually found an anchor fixture, but to the second element: they will therefore limit the use of oil money that goes to sustainable, state-owned consumption. In this I understand that the Right and Left are on the team, but the Christian People's Party is making a reservation. What is actually involved in government consumption becomes somewhat diffuse, but it is close to believing that a person does not want to tell — as is true — that reduced government consumption can quickly be about reducing ambitions for children and the elderly. It is precisely these groups that have benefited from an increase in the budget in this government's working period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1266	There was a lot of road and rail in the last post – it may not have been so surprising from a former Minister of Transport. With regard to the representative’s proposal from the Progress Party itself, I am from a party that is very enthusiastic about anchor fasteners – perhaps often of a slightly different character than what is described in this proposal. But I notice that the Progress Party points to the need to have an anchor fast for economic policy. We see that in a positive light. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I use this opportunity both to remind you of our agreement and to say that it is still necessary for us to have a long-term economic policy. We actually see the pension fund, or the oil fund if you want, as an important part of this, and the rule of action as a key factor in keeping order in the Norwegian economy. There's a lot of consensus here in this room, mostly. At the same time, I agree with the representative Sanner that one thing is the extent of what we phase into oil money in the Norwegian economy, another thing is how we spend this money. Let us not be surprised that we agreed on what the phase-in of oil money was going to do in 2001, namely to improve infrastructure, to develop new knowledge through research and development, and to contribute to enhancing growth capacity and thus also to ensuring the basis of public welfare systems. These are elements that you can ask yourself how changing governments have fulfilled. I would say that the Bondevik II government was quite good at that. Now it's probably a little bit more diffuse what the oil crowns actually do, except that they go for different good purposes within our budgets. Why are both pension funds and action rules so important? The best example we have in Europe of the importance of this is the Netherlands and how they managed their gas resources at the end of the 1970s. There the money was phased into the economy very quickly, and when the income fell, a collapse, in part, into the Dutch economy, which in professional terminology is referred to as the Dutch sick person. That's what we have to bring with us when it's attacked by different teams how we treat our fund and the rule of action. Let us not hesitate either – at least I have experienced it when we on the Financial Committee are on our trips and meet our colleagues and financial institutions, etc. – that there is a rather unison praise from Norway and the management of our natural resources, which have such a clear framework as they have. The frame itself is important – whether it's 3 or 4 pst. on the rule of action, it can be discussed, but knowing in the markets that you have such a rule, it is important in itself. It is said in an old, good Norwegian saying that it should have a good back to carry good days. I think that is the basis for the large majority here in this Chamber joining both the creation of a pension fund and a subsequent rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1280	Do we need a new anchoring in economic policy? My left and my left answers are no. Overall, the rule of action is a good enough anchor for economic policy, but that does not mean that everything in today's practice of the rule of action is perfect, or that the way we conduct budgetary policies in the Storting is optimal. Firstly, I and the Left are open to looking at solutions that mean that we have a clearer two-thirds of the state budget in an investment budget and an operating budget. It will provide greater predictability, and it will also provide Norwegian citizens with a better overview of what is actually used for investment and what is used for operations. It is unreasonably strange that four-year investment budgets are good for the local government sector, while in practice it is completely unrecognizable for the Stortinget. Secondly, for the Left, it is vital that most of the space provided by the current rule of action is used for long-term investment in the future – in infrastructure, knowledge and innovation – and not least contributes to the development of Norway from a fossil nation to a renewable nation. Today, this is not the case. This government uses almost 80 pst. of the operating oil money and 20 pst. to invest in the future. Under the previous government it was the opposite – 80 pst. was invested in the future, 20 pst. was used for operations. There's one thing I'm wondering about, and it's that the government and government parties lately – and almost overnight – have come to the conclusion that the rule of action does not put priorities in the budget. In the setting we are currently handling, the government parties write that ‘The rule of action imposes requirements on the use of oil money over time, but does not prejudge the priorities of the budget’. In the treaty debate, the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, former Minister of Finance and current Councillor Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, challenged the use of oil money in relation to the intention of the rule of action. To my surprise, the Council of State replied: «I must say that I remember the rule of action very well and am afraid that it is the representative who remembers the rule of action incorrectly. There is nothing in the rules of action on the use of the money.’ I was going to quote from St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001, economic policy guidelines, i.e. the rule of action. Now there are several representatives who have done it before me, both the representative Sanner and the representative Syversen, so of course I should not. But there were clear leads there on what the rule of action was to be used for. I will give the Progress Party a straight line in some of the objections they raise with regard to today's practice of action rules and budgetary procedures. That is not all that is above and below the line of budgetary policy, which is equally logical. It is quite obvious that you have a point that it is really to circumvent the rule of action if one year you add a state-owned company several billions in capital injections below the line, and then to take back a lot of it in dividends over the line the next year. It is somewhat illogical for Avinor – although self-financing due to the tax-free sale – to be able to build airports and air transport infrastructure without delay and possibly to capitalise on the route to purchase property from SAS, while we cannot do the same in today's legislation on rail development. Nor is there any doubt that current budgetary practices and rules of action stimulate very little to improve the efficiency of the public sector. There are few or no incentives to make long-term investments that contribute to efficiency and savings in the long term, while there are similar incentives to distribute slightly to everything, price adjustments, the continuation of last year’s appropriations, and not making real priorities, as practice has been in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1305	This is an important debate on a fundamental part of economic policy in Norway. It is good to note that the reasons for the proposal for a representative praise both the present and the former governments for a wise and offensive oil policy. In my view, this is well deserved. Over time, several governments and magnifications have built up a good system for managing their oil revenues. The pension fund and the action rule are carriers in this system. Our framework is being noticed internationally. The action rule provides a framework for the development of the oil-corrected budget balance over time. The rule does not prejudge budgetary priorities, including the level of taxation or the size of the budget. These are priorities that will vary from government to government and from batch to batch. However, so far there has been broad agreement on the generational distribution of the use of oil revenues, which the rule of action implies. The proposal we are discussing today means that there will no longer be an overall framework for the use of oil revenues from the State budget. If public expenditure other than investment is to follow GDP while making a strong upturn in capital formation, the consequence will be that the public sector will seize an increasing proportion of the resources of the Norwegian economy in the coming years. This will result in higher domestic cost growth, with negative consequences for the krone price, competitiveness and parts of the economy facing competition from abroad. It will also make it more difficult to fund pensions and other welfare schemes in the future. According to the proposal, the date of implementation of investments should be adjusted to avoid any pressure. This is in itself an important consideration, in isolation. The treatment of the state budget and the rule of action help us with precisely this, since the projects are seen together, within an overall framework. Technical changes to budgetary rules do not give us more money or human resources at our disposal. A wish for the guidelines to focus on productivity-enhancing investments in infrastructure, education, research and a more competitive fiscal and fiscal policy. There is nothing to prevent one from prioritizing these objectives within the framework of the use of oil money set by the rule of action – on the contrary. The rules of action and an overall budget provide a good basis for policy choices between different objectives in the context of taking into account balanced economic developments. Within the budgetary framework of the action rule, in recent years the government has implemented a strong uplift not only for road and rail but also for kindergartens, schools and research. In this way, we will facilitate continued good development in the Norwegian economy. Let me finally say that the situation in several countries around us shows how important it is to keep order in your own economy. Other countries are now tightening up their fiscal framework to improve governance of public finances. So in this situation, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal to scrape a rule that has worked well. As a substitute, a rule is proposed which does not provide an overall framework for the budget, with difficult limits and great opportunities for circumvention of budgeting. I would strongly warn against this. We do not create a more growth-intensive business by that one can call creative accounting on the state budget, or that one can also call an irresponsible economic policy. The good development of the Norwegian economy is not self-evident, and I believe that a troubled international environment should not initiate projects that contribute to experimenting with the security of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1328	First of all, I think it is sad that the Minister of Finance does not discuss the proposal that is actually there, but dictates his own version of it. It's unfortunate. But to take that, the Minister of Finance himself mentions: he says that the alternative of the Progress Party does not have an overall framework for the use of oil money. It doesn't have government policy either, because it's an overall framework for what you can use in the state budget, but there's nothing that controls what you can use outside the state budget. So in this year's budget, we're going to say OK that Petoro spends 28 billion. oil crowns outside the State budget. So we're going to get 5 billion. oil crowns to the House Bank, and now even the government is talking about giving loans to SAS at high risk. This means that there will have to be losses inside this, which means that there will also be oil money spent on the outside of the state budget. Can the Council of State say what is the overall framework — including oil money through asset relocation and all kinds of things — underpinned by the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1337	This is a discussion we've had on several occasions, and I'm not sure if a new answer from the Minister of Finance makes the representative Solvik-Olsen say he's satisfied with it, because we probably have a very different approach here. There's one amount in the state budget that describes how much oil money we spend in the state budget, and that's the transfer being made to cover the oil-corrected deficit. That's the amount we're dealing with. If you go back and look at the law on the petroleum fund, you will also see a clear definition of what is to be counted within and outside this so-called oil money use. There is a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. So it's one amount, and it's the item covering the oil-corrected deficit transferred from the State pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1342	This is very interesting for those who come along, because the Council of State now says that money is also being spent outside the state budget. It defines what is to be used in the state budget, and what you can use outside, so this government has two taps. What the Progress Party says is wrong here is that you don't have a rule dealing with what's happening on the outside of the state budget. It will be the rule of the Progress Party that will take over and wear something. That is why we will continue to challenge the Minister of Finance to respond with the same premise for both his own policies and the policies of the Progress Party. The next point is that the government is now saying that they are not making any headway in the government budget for the priorities of oil money use. When the rule of action was adopted ten to twelve years ago, he said that the money should primarily go to growth-creating investments through tax relief, investment in infrastructure and research. Is it not then to break the rule even when you say that there is not a single priority that is taken into account through the state budget for how oil money should actually be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1349	I'm just repeating the previous main point, and it's that there's one entry on the state budget that describes the use of oil money as such, according to the law around the State pension fund. There is capital investment in government, in government enterprises and in other things that are otherwise financed, through the borrowing transactions made by the government, but the total use of money — both above and below the line — is shown in the figures of the government budget. There is no attempt to hide or circumvent this. It is clear from the state budget what is the total use of money in the economy. I don't think we agree on what are the main priorities of the state budget, because this is a debate about what the individual parties focus on. But I think when one sums up this period, one will see that this government has made a big leap in areas that mean forward-looking investments for growth in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1356	I want to go back to St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001, presented by the Stoltenberg I Government. I referred in my main contribution to wise quotes from the big message and to the fact that a broad majority of the Stortinget agreed that oil money would be used to build up under the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, to growth-enhancing tax cuts and to investment in knowledge, research and infrastructure. This was also the working party behind when the matter was dealt with. Today, only the four non-socialist parties have joined these wise words from the Stoltenberg I government. Is it a coincidence, a forgetfulness, or a deliberate reorientation from the Stoltenberg II government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1361	It is the result of a policy to prioritise important welfare tasks, a policy to prioritise important investments in infrastructure in Norway. For example, if you look at the 2005 traffic allocations in relation to what was granted in 2011, in fixed 2012 kroner, the level is about 10 billion. kr higher. It is true that tolls are part of that calculation, but toll rates for highways are about. 1 billion. kr higher than they were in 2005. In other words, there is a significant rise on the transport side, as one example. One can look at the growth in research appropriations — a significant real growth in this period. It is that investing in kindergartens, for example, helps us to get a bigger workforce than we would otherwise have. It is also an important investment for the future in Norway, because in fact, labour – human capital – accounts for about 80pst. of national wealth, and measures to strengthen the return on human capital may be the most important thing we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1366	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1370	Government parties give the impression that today's economic situation is largely due to a good rule of action. We agree that there should be regulatory governance in the economy. It shall be predictable and shall be the responsibility of money use. The party of progress has never disagreed with that. If one goes back and sees when the rule of action was adopted, one will see that the Progress Party was against the current rule of action, but we proposed a cost rule to limit the growth of government expenditure in order to reduce the growth in consumption. Today, we see that our approach was the most correct one, because most of the oil money use has gone to increase the consumption of the state – not investment. For the period 2010–2019, access to EUR 1622 billion will be available. oil crowns within the action rule. When the government says they're prioritizing infrastructure and research, that's not right, because they've promised 100 of these 1,600 billion. kr shall go to infrastructure investments. Less than 100 is going to go to research, and that means less than 200 out of 1600 billion. kr goes to what was said that the rule of action should be applied. These are inflation-adjusted numbers that the government itself has provided. This means that the main part here is for consumption, which is therefore in breach of the policy of action. Today we have a rule of action saying that oil investments are on the outside, and that there is no pressure in the economy, but if you instead build a path for the same money, you break the rule of action. If you give money to Statkraft to build wind turbines in Norway, there is no pressure in the Norwegian economy because it goes through a state company. But if you give the same money to Norad to build wind turbines in Africa, it suddenly has an inflation effect in the Norwegian economy because it comes into the state budget. It is obvious that the rule of action is not a good instrument for controlling the pressure in the Norwegian economy, because you can donate money through so-called wealth repositioning, on the outside, and it's done in a big way. So the government has a rule for oil money usage in the state budget, but no rule for oil money usage through state companies, and that's exactly what the Progress Party is trying to do. We don't want to scratch any rule, as many people have given the impression. We're trying to get better precision, make sure that there's investment that takes precedence – not consumption – and that's a responsible economic policy. This has been confirmed by the SSB by analysing the state budgets of the Progress Party for many years, and they say that you will have increased GDP, increased employment, lower inflation and lower interest rates by shifting money consumption to investment and away from consumption, even if you also increase money consumption slightly. We're not alone in saying this. I am a little surprised when both the Senterpartet and SV give the impression that these are bad thoughts. Because in these days, the S.V. representative actually sent letters of readers to the country's newspapers, arguing that he is using more oil money to build lightning trains, that the rule of action is a restriction on building this country. Then we had hoped that they also meant the same thing in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1383	Now I've been told to be a little gentler, so now I'm going to be a little gentler and not as angry as the last time, but I'm really not that angry – I just look like that! There are several points I can address here, not least the representative Meltveit Kleppas and Geir-Ketil Hansen's rowing and ridicule of the Progress Party's policy. It must be liberating to have so much economic knowledge that they are able to ridicule the Progress Party and the thoughts that we are making. I guess they're on safe ground and have their academic credentials in order, so the economics are then. So I'm going to decorate a little bit of the representative Tenden: the left shows that they actually understand that there is a difference between consumption and investment. That's very good, and we hope that the other parties will always pay attention to that, and that they understand that it's better to spend the money than to invest the money. When we talk about ‘wage investments’, the representative Hansen wondered what ‘wage investments’ are for something. After all, there will be no money left for other things, said the representative Hansen. Yes, because ‘social economic profitability’ means that you get more back than you give — hence the term ‘social economic profitability’. Then you get more back, which you can then apply to other things. So they're not used up. That's the difference. Then we say that what goes on the consumption side should not exceed the growth in GDP, and when you make socio-economic, profitable adjustments, you get more money in, and then you get a higher growth in GDP, and then you can spend more money on consumption, because then you've earned this money – instead of spending money from the sea's bottom on consumption and fun. It is a responsible economic policy. Today’s economic and financial policies are leading to an even greater number of people in social security, which makes it even more difficult to run the business competitively from Norway, so as to lose competitiveness, unfortunately. But it's when we get profitable investments, it's easier to transport Norwegian goods, etc. – and not least competitive tax relief, which means that you give solid tax relief at the bottom of a very, very rich state, to a competitive business that is struggling to sell its goods on the continent. For this reason, the wage requirements may be somewhat lower in pay terms, the salaries for enterprises are falling slightly so that they can compete more effectively on the European market and in the rest of the world. This is a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1394	Now I'm going to be gentle, and then I'm going to say that we have our system. It's been tested and tested for over ten years. Therefore, my point is that it is not I who have the burden of proof here, it is Solvik-Olsen, Tybring-Gjedde and the others who will throw it on the boat, at least in the form it appears today. So to some comments about substance, which I feel can – at least maybe – make a certain impression on the Progress Party. The Tybring-Gjedde deals with «Societal economic profitability» is not correct. When calculating socio-economic benefits, it is true that it has some effects that can come back in terms of money, but in such calculations often a large proportion of those estimates are an estimate of the value of what increased leisure time is, the value of getting into a cabin earlier on Friday afternoon — and not effects that you can balance government budgets with if you are to rule a country. Point one. That doesn't mean I'm against socio-economic analyses. It can be very good and an important tool, but you shouldn't be blind to it. When you compare it with financial positions abroad, when you buy German government bonds, it's not a socially profitable investment, it's a corporate economical profitable investment. It's an investment where you put money that you can, hopefully, not only place, but where you also get payment back every year – like cash, money in your hand – that you can spend on other purposes. And you can also realize the investments, in the sense that you can choose to sell them and get your money back. I am very for roads up in Hallingdal and elsewhere for people going to the cabin or running goods across the mountain, but this is not comparable, as the Progress Party gives the impression. So to this budgetary system that Solvik-Olsen and others are very busy, both above and below the line – you can go wild in this. But what this is essentially about, is that this is not something we've figured out, or something that Solvik-Olsen and others have figured out now. This has been a well-known system for many years, a system that not only I have been familiar with, but all the market forces in Norway. Those who assess where to place their money have understood that it should be done that way. And once again, there's a difference between shooting capital into e.g. State power, where, on the other hand, you withdraw dividends from that year, so that you don't have to be accused of being able to trick with the money, so that you have a money machine that gives money back every year in the years that come, which we again then – to use Tybring-Gjedde's own words – can have it'moro' with. So this is not my word, but Tybring-Gjedde's word. And once again, there's a big difference. And finally, what I think the Progress Party should say is – if you criticise these alleged gaps in the rule of action – whether the Progress Party should then raise the petroleum investments, State power, others who borrow money and toll companies into the state budget? No, you don't have any plans for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1407	In conclusion, I think I understand what the term ‘social economy profitability’ means. What I tried to say in my post was that we might most clearly meet this term when we deal with the national transport plan, in connection with cost-benefit calculations. The calculation models in this context have shown us that there are very few investments – for example: on road and rail – which gives positive results from socio-economic calculations. What I'm trying to say in the post, what I mean, is that the calculation models we have here in the country for socio-economic profitability, for example, provide. non-positive impact on the functioning of a maternity ward. But in general, it may be that the very kind of institutions, or the operation of them, are the most socio-economically profitable we're doing here in the country. In this context, midwives are highly socio-economically profitable. But in the calculation models that are discussed here, I don't think they will turn out very positively. My claim is, and it is from a political point of view, that the most socio-economical one has done in this country in the post-war period, is to develop the welfare state we have, and that we have managed to balance differences. All international analyses of the best-performing nations in economic and industrial crises show that there are the nations with the least differences and a high redistribution tax policy. It's socio-economically profitable. In this context, it becomes too subtle and completely wrong to lock the use of oil money to what the Progress Party proposes, namely more for investment, less for operation, and more for what is defined as – in a narrow sense – business and socio-economically profitable. This will result in large-scale centralization, and the Progress Party does not respond to where to cut. Indeed, budget cuts must be made in order to follow the proposal made by the Progress Party: it is cut in hospital operations, cut in maintenance and operation of the transport sector, it is cut in school and cut in universities. That's the operation of the nation of Norway we're talking about cutting in. You have not answered that, and I am not surprised that you have not answered that, because you have no explanation for that. But that's what we're going to get back to when we're going to debate the state budget for 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1418	The proposal of the Progress Party is that we should separate consumption and investment, we should limit the growth of government consumption because we should force ourselves to more effectively than what we are doing today, and we should be able to accelerate investment. What we're pointing out is that it's just customs to pretend that the rule of action guarantees that you don't spend too much oil money in the Norwegian economy, because by placing wealth around you can spend unlimited amounts of money in the Norwegian economy. So then the finance committee's leader challenges us on what we want to do with it. Well, that's exactly what we've proposed. If we had started discussing our proposal, we would at least have gone one step further instead of pretending that we don't have an alternative. This is precisely the criticism we have raised, which means that we are also promoting a solution to it. And pretending that the Progress Party has two taps into the oil fund while the government doesn't have it is artificial, because the government itself says they have one through the state budget, and they have a rule on it. Then you have wealth repositioning. There are no rules at all, and that's where we want it to actually become some principles. But what I disagree with today's government is pretending that oil investments do not affect Norwegian economy – but once you build a path for the same money, you can dramatically influence Norwegian economy. And that is why I ask the chairman of the finance committee to become a little more factual and read the documents he is debating, instead of just making claims about the counterparty that is going to be completely wrong. Then it's given the impression that if we had spent a little more of the oil money in socially profitable investments, it wouldn't have made people work any more – they'd rather have traveled to the cabin earlier. The reason why some people today end up a little early on Friday to go to the cabin is that they just want to avoid the queue. If you had got better transport systems, people could have been sitting at work until the clock was four instead of sneaking into the lunch to try to get ahead of the queue. It could actually have made us work more instead of traveling earlier on a cabin, as people do today. And then he says it's important that we be able to shoot money into Statkraft, because there we can take dividends. But in one way you can't take out a dividend. We represent the people, we manage the people's tax money. If we can use them so that most people get a little better life, a little more income, save some expenses, that's actually good. We're not going to look at the state as a business-economy unit where things have to be done only if the state makes money on it. We are for the people here, and if we suddenly later as if Statkraft were a good investment, how does the representative Micaelsen defend that he has given billions of dollars to SAS in recent years, outside the rule of action? Where is the profitability of this? I remember that there have been calculations that show that for each of the heads you spend on improving the national road system in Norway, you get three and a half heads back through a better economy. It is true that some roads are unprofitable in Norway. The Progress Party has then said: you must continue to be given priority within the framework of the State budget. It's the socio-economic profitable projects we're going to raise on the outside, just like oil investments, just like power investment -- that it's a whole and a red thread.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1431	I will take the floor to the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, to discuss the proposal, because, unfortunately, there are a number of questions about the proposal that have not been clarified, either in comments, in the proposal itself or here in the Chamber. So then I have some questions, and I hope that the representative Solvik-Olsen can inform us others who obviously can't understand anything, from this pulpit. What should be defined as consumption and what should be defined as investment? It is quite right, as the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen says, that most road projects with today's system are not socio-economically profitable. Some more people might change the system a little bit, but it's just that, in any case, a lot of people will still be socially unprofitable. What should the objective in the world of Solvik-Olsen be for what it is reasonable that the consumption of the country should increase? Is this how he suggested at the Progress Party national meeting in spring, that it should follow the growth of GDP – something else the growth of public expenditure has followed in the course of the course of action – or is it another objective? Indeed, it is not mentioned in the proposal, a relatively significant part if a new anchorage is first to be established for what is to apply. Or in another way: if you see that you get a number of proposals for investments that are individually socio-economically profitable, does the representative Solvik-Olsen agree that if you put together a number of socio-economically profitable projects, and start them up at the same time, then many of the projects are no longer profitable? - Yeah, he's nodding. The question then is: who should determine the order, and how should the dosage be when you have a number of socio-economically profitable projects – which, incidentally, the representatives of the Progress Party across the country have promised to go completely away in terms of appropriations, and what will happen to transport? I think I'm going to end there, because I want Solvik-Olsen now to answer us in all reverence for what we're about to raise. Because I find it annoying that we are constantly being accused of not discussing substance from this pulpit, without getting clear answers to one of the most central components of an economic policy he himself and his party believes should form the basis of a new government for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1442	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has 1 minute to answer all of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1445	I think the representative Micaelsen is able to understand, but I don't think he will, and that's what this is all about. I actually answered the question before he came up and asked the question. What is socio-economically profitable – i.e. where it is estimated that the value of society is greater than the cost – is to be implemented through state-owned companies. The unprofitable thing, you take it in the state budget. I just said that. Is it that hard to listen to? Priority: Avinor is able to prioritize the order of the projects. State power is able to prioritize the order of the projects. Why don't a road company and a railway company handle it? Petoro can invest in the right order, Statnett can do it. This is possible if the right systems are set up, but the problem is that the government refuses to have a state-owned road investment company and a railway investment company. We have it on power, and we have it on everything else. We can use imported labour, and we can use our own labour better if we have long-term projects instead of today's funding, which is'stop and go'. The answers to Micaelsen's questions exist, if he just starts listening.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1452	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1466	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1475	It is obvious that border trade is a challenge. This is both the size, which is now approaching 12 billion. kr, and the growth that we see in the border trade. Border trade has many reasons. It is at wage and cost level and national charging policy. It's going on currency terms, which makes us see movements in border policy. That's a big deal. And it is a major challenge for a targeted industrial policy. There is also a strong consensus in the Committee that it is responding to key challenges in the formulation of Norwegian policies. This applies to jobs, particularly along the border. It is estimated that there may be 10,000-12000 jobs moving across the border. But this is also true of our national tax policy, public health policy and alcohol and tobacco policy. Here one can notice that border trade is not just a strange problem. It's probably in a lot of ways a problem everywhere there's a limit. It is then necessary to draw some lines that relate both to national autonomy and to the extent to which one should be guided by what can in many ways be a least common multiple. So here's the big challenge. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, strongly agrees that our charging policy is an important part of public health policy. As you can see, border trade is a major challenge. When the Committee does not adopt this proposal, it is not because it does not consider the border trade issue to be important. But the balance between national policies and targets in the areas I have mentioned should always be with us – and it is with us when the state budget is designed. What is the majority’s position is that these kinds of questions are settled when the State budget is addressed. That's where you set the level of taxes, that's where you set the levels of taxes and all the other levels. And the border trade issue should be a natural part of that debate. I am addressing a proposal that, in the event of an editing error or an incursion, has fallen out of the setting. I have been told from Stortinget's office that it is distributed in the hall. The right and left propose, in a comment on the vote, that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes, while the majority propose that it be rejected. A proposal from the Right and the Left that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes has thus been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1494	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1497	I would like to start by saying that trade across borders is initially something that is positive. In general, we want to build barriers to trade because it means efficiency, it means that people have access to several types of goods, it means more competition, and we think that is good. So that's the starting point for us. However, as a joint committee writes in the vote, this creates some challenges especially for the trade industry in Norway, and in particular a negative impact in border crossings with our neighbouring countries. There is absolutely no doubt that there are many jobs, we are talking about several thousand, developing in our neighbouring countries instead of in Norway. So the question of whether the answer to the border trade challenge is to erase the costs of, for example. tobacco and alcohol. It's an honest thing to think that's right. Policies are largely about making priorities, taking into account each other, and taxes on alcohol and tobacco have a strong health policy justification. It shall in no way be underestimated that price differences are a significant driver of border trade. It is quite obvious why people cross the border to act, so reducing the charges on the kind of goods down on the Swedish level would have helped to reduce border trade. It's quite obvious. However, it is also obvious that the level of charges we have on the type of goods in Norway per day contributes to a reduction in the consumption of products harmful to health — and this would increase if we chose to reduce the charges to Swedish level. So this is a balance. It is necessary to find a balance sheet that reduces the level of products harmful to health and balances it with the negative effects of taxes, such as border trade. It is quite clear that the approach to health policy weighs more heavily on us than on the part of the proposers. It should also not be underestimated that this has a strong impact on the state's proceeds. If we were to reduce the level of taxation on that type of goods down to the Swedish level, it would be 18 billion. kr in lost income. In the light of the tax debate we've had going on in the last few weeks, it's clear to everyone that it's a pretty huge sum. For example, it represents: more than the entire taxes on wealth. So, within the overall tax regime, we haven't prioritised it. Just to put things in perspective: when the Progress Party presented its alternative budget yesterday, they launched a reduction in wine and beer fees of 830 million. kr, and they have removed the chocolate charge. But they're not close to proposing tax reliefs that would bring us down to the Swedish level, because then you're talking about taking quite huge steps. Then, of course, customs protection on agricultural products also has a major impact on price differences. Food is an important part of what people travel across the border to do. Here we have fundamentally different policies, simply. An important part of the foundation of the current government is that we maintain Norwegian agriculture, that we should increase Norwegian food production and make housing throughout the country. This requires us, for example: uses the instrument that customs is within the trade agreements that we have. Here, too, we are fundamentally different from the right, which will more or less tear legs away under Norwegian agriculture, completely independent of the border trade problem. I am pleased that the representative Gundersen sees that these considerations must be taken together in the context of the treatment of the State budget. We are therefore proposing that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1516	Since we in the Progress Party promoted this proposal for a representative, where we ask the government to present a case on how to reduce border trade, the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research has published a report on this very point. It is called Border Trade – development, causes and effects. I hope everyone in the Financial Committee has read it, especially those who have debated, will debate and not least vote later today. It's both interesting and frightening reading. It concludes, inter alia: that border trade will increase even more if today's policy is pursued. I thought in that context – as this is so interesting and perhaps not everyone has read it – to read out some excerpts from this report, where it is, among other things. concluded with: ‘There has been a significant increase in border trade since the mid-1990s. From 2008 to 2011, the total amount of border trade increased by 29% to 11.5 billion surveys show that the Nordics are the people in Europe who trade the most. [[...]] 1 out of 2 Nordics are on border trade in a year, compared with an average of 1 out of 10 EU citizens. There has also been an increase in seizures by the customs services in the period 2008–2011, in particular for beer and spirits. [[40 %]] [[68 %]] So this is a dramatic increase in smuggling. As mentioned earlier, it is without doubt as stated in the report: ‘Increases in cross-border trade have consequences in several areas. The calculations in this report show that – border trade in 2011 resulted in 7700 fewer Norwegian jobs – border trade and tax-free trade reduced the country’s revenue from fees by SEK 2.4 billion.’ For those concerned with the environment, the report shows that: – ‘road transport related to border trade resulted in emissions of 93000 tonnes of CO2, i.e. more than all car traffic in Finnmark causes.’» Further: – ‘From 2004 to 2011, the difference between Norwegian and Swedish prices for all product groups increased from 48,5 percentage points to 60,5 percentage points.’ It's alarming. If we look at employment figures, they are also of concern, given the challenges facing Norwegian businesses. This applies to retail trade, with a loss of approx. 2 800 annual works, wholesale, with a loss of approx. 500 mills, and the food and drink industry, with a loss of approx. 1 100 years' worth of work. Then you have the primary production, i.e. agriculture here in Norway. It has often been debated from the pulpit. Here it's reduced by approx. 3 100 annual works. The supplier industry, which is expected to suffer a significant loss of turnover due to border trade, is around the same level. 300 lost annual works. A number of consultations have been held in connection with the treatment of the State budget. Many of the hearing bodies are concerned about this, in particular Norwegian breweries, all Norwegian chocolate producers and farmers. That is why, in the Progress Party, we are disappointed that no other party will support our proposal, especially when, in this report, the conclusion on proposals for action clearly refers to, among other things. Denmark, which has had challenges in border trade against Germany. The best tool there was to lower the fees. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that there is a need to do something about tax relief, especially on wine and beer, and to lower the high customs barriers around Norway. I am pleased that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left agree that there should be a test scheme with Sunday-open shops, but disappointed that we are alone in the second proposal. Finally, I would like to make a proposal to the Progress Party and say that we will subsidise the proposal of the Right and the Left – which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber – that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes, if it turns out that our proposal falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1570	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1573	The Progress Party will reduce customs duties on food, reduce taxes on alcohol and tobacco and have Sunday-open shops. In the case we are dealing with today, this well-known Progress Party position is linked to the desire for reduced border trade. But there are still political positions from the Progress Party that apply to the whole country, and not just the border counties to Sweden. Increasing cross-border daily trade is a challenge, but it is not a curious challenge. Swedish trades in Denmark, Danish travels to Germany. Different levels of prices come partly from different levels of charges, but as much of the different levels of costs relate to levels of wages and salaries and to exchange rates. This is also the case between Norway and Sweden. Even if we adapt customs protection and charges, there will still be cheaper goods in Sweden because of a low price on the Swedish krona and lower costs in Swedish business. We may be able to reduce the border trade somewhat with the Progress Party's medicine, but it will still pay to cross the border to buy tobacco, alcohol and meat, as well as other goods. Norwegian taxes on alcohol and tobacco are high. This is because the level of charges affects consumption and therefore has a good health basis. Customs protection on food is a political basis in the desire to maintain Norwegian food production and the food industry. From the centre party’s side – and fortunately also from a broad majority in Stortinget’s side – we are not willing to throw over these concerns in order to achieve a somewhat reduced border trade. Border trade is particularly related to border crossings in Eastfold and Hedmark. In this context, it may be useful to know that these two counties are large in terms of food production and processing. Hedmark has more than 2 000 jobs in the food industry. In the inner Eastfold, a large production plant is now being built that will provide 800 new jobs. Workplaces in food production and processing in Eastfold and Hedmark depend entirely on Norwegian agricultural policy, including customs protection. It is wise to reject the proposal of the Progress Party for measures to limit border trade. Taxes on tobacco and alcohol have health consequences that cannot be defended. Reduced customs protection on food has implications for both national food security and Norwegian workplaces and cannot be defended. In the case of the request for Sunday-open shops, the Right and Left follow-up to the Progress Party in the proposal to set up a trial scheme. This is a question that we believe will continue to be discussed in a much broader context than as a measure to limit border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1592	As has been pointed out earlier in the debate, open borders, peaceful coexistence across borders are, above all, a good thing. Since 1814 we have had peaceful coexistence with, for example. Sweden — across the border between Norway and Sweden. Then there is some competition in commercial activities. It's probably gone through times both ways. I see alive the long queues into Magnor in the 1950s to buy butter. So it goes a little bit both ways. There are several factors that affect border trade. There are price differences, different product ranges and the relative price level between Norway and Sweden. However, the most important thing may be the level of costs and differences in cost levels between countries. I think it's the most important thing. The Norwegian level of costs has accelerated in relation to the Swedish level of costs in recent years. I think that's one of the most important factors, of course, in addition to exchange rates. So-called baits in the border trade are e.g. alcohol, tobacco, chocolate and other products of that type. These are goods subject to a charge. The fees have several purposes. One purpose is that of the Gundersen representative, a strong public health perspective, which it is important to bring with him. As far as I can see, the right has proposed, in its alternative budget, an increase in the tobacco tax based on more health policy reasons. That is an important consideration of charges. Fees shall, of course, provide revenue in the common fund. Overall, taxes on these goods, alcohol, tobacco, confectionery and non-alcoholic beverages amount to about 23 billion. kr. I think it is that in order for fees to also meet this important public health objective, it is not to avoid a getting tax at a relatively high level. One has to have it in this picture. Then I just want to say a few words about the second proposal that exists in the case, namely a proposal for a test scheme to keep shops open on Sundays. Now I am not responsible for that matter in the government, but I still allow myself to have a few considerations around it. We have the law of holidays that imposes, as a general rule, that fixed outlets should remain closed on Sundays and public holidays. An important reason for this is that limits of commercial activity on Sundays and public holidays will help to make these days slightly different from the other days of the week. However, in order to ensure that consumers have access to goods for which there are specific reasons to allow, a number of derogations from the general rule are provided for. Where the limit should go and the considerations to be taken into account, there are enough different opinions on – there are considerations ranging from the consideration of the employees in the trade in goods to the more general provision of the weekend peace. I believe that we in Norway today have a good balance between different reasons for allowing trade on public holidays, so I am glad that that proposal is rejected. Otherwise, I agree with the representative, Mr Gundersen, that the more general things that relate to the setting of fees etc. belong to the usual budgetary procedure, and that is what we will do at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1614	I wonder if the Council of State can tell whether he is not concerned about developments, as border trade is increasing and increasing and this report shows that it is going to increase even more because of the increase in taxes in Norway, now even on non-alcoholic drinks, but does it prohibit the construction of shopping centres outside urban centres, while on the Swedish side more and more shopping centres are being built? Are you not concerned that Norwegian jobs are also at the expense of no doubt? It is also mentioned that one has this tax regime because of public health. Now there's shared opinions about that. I would rather claim that it is actually healthy to eat chocolate in new and noe, and it is healthy to take a glass of red wine in new and noe – the same with beer. I don't want to say that it's more healthy to drink wine and beer if you've bought it in Sweden than in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1622	I shall not go far into a debate about what is healthy and unhealthy. I guess that's a little up to what the individual feels and thinks is reasonable and correct. But when you're going to do it first, I'm because it should be done with a certain fee so that it also benefits the community, and I think it's a broad consensus on that. Regarding the issue of jobs: Yes, border trade, which means that, for example: trade is shifted to Sweden, initially leading to fewer jobs in Norway. On the other hand, if one looks at labour market statistics, the so-called AKU survey that comes out once a quarter, it is that if one looks at the growth of employment, it is what is defined as trade in goods in Norway, one of the areas that has had the strongest growth in employment. So if you see this in a larger context, it's a sector that's had good growth in employment. But I agree that at the border there can be an employment growth that goes the other way, i.e. above the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1629	Then I take another question because no one else has taken a line. A little follow-up to it with Sunday-open shops, although it may not be the domain of the Finance Committee. As the Minister of Finance also said, that is an exception to this rule. Then I would like to ask the question: why do you have an exception when you want a weekend peace? In Christmas, for example, where you might especially have most holidays and peace and quiet, it's an exception, then it's opening up because the shops may have been open on Sundays, and also have longer open. A few days ago, I was in the Municipality of Få in Buskerud. There were the Sunday-open shops, and then I was told that the reason was that it is a tourist municipality. Then it's obviously okay. So there's a difference between municipalities and people. Another thing is that the wine monopoly increased prices one year ago, with the reason that people traded less on the wine monopoly. Would it mean, then, that if we Nordics now actually trade more on the wine monopoly, will prices go down on the wine monopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1638	I think I'll be careful to point out what I said in my main post, and I think it's right, as it was said, that there are some exceptions in the case of Sunday-open shops. I've also had, I was saying, the pleasure of dealing with that legislation, especially in connection with so-called designated tourist sites – we also have a part of it in Hedmark. I guess there's a good balance between the need that is, in the law of the holiday peace today, and the exceptions that one has, so I don't think it's necessary to go any closer to it, except to point out what I said in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1645	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1651	Storting goes to voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1675	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters held at the Storting meeting on 13 November 2012 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1822	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1832	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1888	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to replace the current rules of action on the use of oil revenues with a new anchor for economic policy, which will focus on: defining socio-economic, profitable investments in, inter alia, infrastructure, major acquisitions of equipment, etc. as a change of assets – this is in addition to today’s opportunities for real estate relocation. Enable a much greater degree of socio-economic investment by taking into account the socio-economic profitability of a calculation rate that better harmonises with the expected return from the oil fund's foreign location. Limit the growth of oil money consumption towards sustainable government consumption, with the aim that national consumption should not grow faster than gross domestic product and the values of the oil fund rather than looking at the value of the oil fund alone. [[GDP]] Focusing on productivity-enhancing investment in infrastructure, education, research and more competitive fiscal and fiscal policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1931	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left motion No. 2 by Jørund Rytman, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 3, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left Proposal No. 3 has been promoted after the deadline for submission of proposals, as set out below. Paragraph 39 of the Rules of Procedure, but the President will nevertheless propose that the Storting should refer the proposal to voting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a case on how to reduce border trade. The matter shall include a plan for the reduction of customs duties on food and a strategy for the reduction of excise duties to the Swedish level on goods subject to border trade.» The voting boards showed that 71 votes were cast against and 24 votes in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.10.05.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1959	The watering system at my house is not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1964	It's not okay with me either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1969	The watering plant is unable to keep pace with the President. Then we take the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Advancement Party, one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1974	The wetting plant still does not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1979	Is this the case for more representatives? The President asks whether there are several representatives who have the same problem. The President asks the representative of Skovholt Gitmark to move to another place – one place forward. It's moving forward! Then the president asks if the representative Røbekk Nørve's voting facility is working now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1986	I think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1991	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1994	It's still not okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e1999	The president tried to investigate whether it was possible to register manually, but it is not possible. That is why we have asked the representative of Skovholt Gitmark to move to another place. We have problems with the plant. It does not record the voice of the representative Skovholt Gitmark today. Then we do it so that we still register the representative Skovholt Gitmark's voice manually, and it will be recorded in the protocol as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e2004	Thank you for the chair play, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e2010	Then the president has recorded that there are 73 votes against the proposal and 21 votes in favour. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads: 'The government is asking the government to promote a case on how to reduce border trade. The matter shall include a plan for the reduction of customs duties on food and a strategy for the reduction of excise duties to the Swedish level on goods subject to border trade.» The vote of the representative Skovholt Gitmark shall be recorded manually.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e2020	The wetting plant is now functioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e2025	That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e2041	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 3, from the Right and Left, which reads: ‘Document 8:117 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e2047	The Progress Party has warned that they support this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-15.ana.ud1099e2069	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
