ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e67	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e118	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e129	It is a pleasure for me to recommend the majority voting in the matters we now have to deal with. Stability and predictability are essential for business. The period 2005–2012 is the strongest growth period in Norwegian business ever. Yes, ever – one has never experienced such growth in the past seven and a half years as we have witnessed. It's not obvious. We constantly carry out thorough assessments of industrial policy and policies and meet what we see as necessary, through the budgets that we present each year. That's something we've repeated, and that's something we're going to repeat, and it's coming out of the nutritional conditions that we're now dealing with in the various propositions and decisions that are proposed. Most Norwegian business schemes work well, yes very well. Operations should not be modified; they should be reinforced and adjusted, if appropriate. But it turns out with all due clarity that the schemes that are in place, they might demand a little bit more business, and so it's a very clear example that the direction we have in business policy is right and it's good. Another feature of this period we have now been through, from 2005 to today, is that one has a government with a positive influence on business. Not least through the challenges we have seen globally, through a financial crisis, a euro crisis, the government is acting to underpin what is needed in business. Overall, the State budget has an overall objective: safe economic governance, thereby ensuring the competitive export-oriented part of Norwegian business, and underpinning high employment and low unemployment. Not to be too self-sufficient and boasting too much, I just want to read some headlines from the Evening Post lately. On November 2, it says: ‘Even fewer unemployed in Norway. While unemployment in Europe only rose and reached 11.6 per cent in September, Norway is experiencing a decline in already very low unemployment rates.’ On November 29, we read in the Evening Post: ‘Norwegian cities fight for labour. The Bergens region is now running a major campaign to fill 32,000 unoccupied jobs. They're worth over 10 million. crowns to attract new employees.» We can also read that Norway cares about the rest of the world. It's going very well. It's not just the red-green parts that have that perception. You also have that idea in the media. In this picture, we have also presented a government budget, with 50 000 more people dropping property taxes. The headlines that I was now referring to are of course not. It is about political priorities, it is about political directions, and it underlines a strong commitment to Norwegian business. In the 2005 budget, Innovation Norway had a loan item of 30,5 billion. kr. Today, in the 2012 budget, it was 43.6 billion. kr. Nutritional research has increased well between 2005 and now by 1 billion. kr. We see the guarantee framework within GIEK, which in 2005 was 44 billion. kr, today is SEK 148 billion. kr. It tells of the growth in Norwegian business. We support and maintain important schemes as net wages for seafarers, so that one contributes to the employment of Norwegian seafarers, we strengthen SIVA, we have invested more heavily in the BIA, so that in 2013 one can release a total of 400 million. for research-related business-related tasks. We also have measures in a number of other budget areas that are important to support Norwegian business, not least the regional development funds and Enova, where we could read in November that Enova is worth 350 million. kr i support for energy recovery of waste heat at Elektem Salten. In addition, we're simplifying, and we're the government that actually implements business simplification measures. In addition to that, we make sure that capital comes to business. We have notified up to six new seed funds. We had to capitalise two of them in connection with the state budget we are now dealing with. It is very good and important that we support these conditions. These are political actions. It is political choices that lie in this. Since 2005, Norway has evolved in the right direction. What we can read in the budgetary settings that we are discussing now is that the opposition, the Party of Advancement and the Right, refers to the concern that many in the business world now point to, among other things. the decline we are now seeing in the number of industrial workplaces. But if an SSB reads, there are more than 5,000 employees in industry and mining in the third quarter. There are now more than 257 000 employees in industry and mining. The concern that many in the business community should have is not for the growth of employment, but for what the parties that express this concern actually mean. The property tax has been the Mantra of the Right Party and the Advance Party for seven and a half years, and for three and a half years I have heard the representative Fleet talk about what the wealth tax will contribute to the development of the economy in Norway only if they get rid of it. But in these days we are experiencing a very diffuse entrance to the property tax from the Right and the Advance Party. What's left of the mantra they've had now for three and a half years? Well, it's a highly uncertain input to the property tax, which has been the means of realising redemptions for Norwegian business. It was not just Norwegian business, but all agriculture would also benefit from the property tax that the Right would do. What are we experiencing now? Has the wealth tax debate and the tax evasion been cancelled, or is it deferred? It is at least now so diffuse that even business doesn't even know what the Right believes about it. Then it's amazing that a party that chooses to be held accountable purely economically, as the Right does, actually acknowledges much of what the Advance Party does in its budget, where they cut administratively flat in all administrative posts. I haven't exactly summed up all of the numbers, but it's well over 300 million. kr. For example, for the Fisheries Directorate, they propose a cut of 39 million. kr. It is then 50–60 posts to be removed from 1 January 2013, if the proposals of the Progress Party are adopted. I certainly believe that there is no responsible budgeting in any way. It is not a responsible policy, and it is not a responsible attitude towards Norwegian business, because it is actually the way that the people who are there do a task – not least for Norwegian business. It's really looking at as a toy. Actually, there's a false budgeting when they can't refer to more real relationships than they actually do. Instead, they should say that there are 50–60 posts to leave the Directorate of Fisheries, rather than toy budgets with fake money, which they actually do. And the Right legitimizes it by acknowledging that they are far on the way to supporting the economic policy that the Progress Party is putting forward. I want to end by saying that Norway is going well. 340,000 more jobs have been created in Norway. The deciduous largest share of this is in the private sector. It's the best indicator we have of the growth power of the Norwegian economy and business. Figures from the SSB now show that between June and September, the number of persons employed increased by 17 000, while population growth was 12 000 — probably an increase in the level of employment. The period 2005–2012 is the strongest growth period, as I said, in Norwegian business. This despite the financial crisis and the euro crisis. There is no doubt that the actual figures show that Norway is the potential arena for Norwegian business. We believe safe people create more. It's the people that establish the businesses, and it's the people that make the businesses profitable. Then we have to bet on the people. That's what this government is doing. We also believe that small differences and a flat management structure are beneficial for productivity. It makes people take more responsibility, feel identity and ownership of their businesses and is an important cause of our productivity, which is still well over 50 pst. of the EU average. Stability, predictability and sound economic governance are the most important foundations for industrial development. So far, and especially this morning, the opposition testifies that it is very unclear, very diffuse and has no idea what it wants with Norwegian business or Norwegian business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e181	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e184	The Chairman of the Committee stated in his statement that the two new, nationwide seed funds should be raised in this budget. The Seed Funds were established in the revised national budget for the current year. Unfortunately, these have not yet been put in place, even though we know what capital drought is out there, precisely for some companies that have problems getting hold of this seed capital. We know that the funds that have already been established do not open up to new ones because they are empty of money. My question then is to the chairman of the committee: what should we do now to get the private capital into this fund? As we heard a few days ago, the Council of State just pointed out the problems of putting these funds in place. To apply other fiscal measures etc. in order to raise private capital, so that capital is made available?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e193	First of all, we're also impatient to put the funds in place. But we have to follow the rules and rules that apply. In this way, it is now important to notify the arrangements that come, by ESA, so that they are approved. Secondly, I fully agree that by providing public funds, as this government does through up to six seed funds, two of which are now being established, the private capital is stimulated to participate in this. I am absolutely convinced that when you go through how the scheme will work – if you get the facilitated way in which those funds will work – then the private capital will also come into place. It is at least very clear that areas that may have been very special in the absence of capital are now able to raise capital against those funds by competing for ownership of some of the seed funds. I think that is very good. I believe that we should be able to establish those funds even with the private share that is now there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e200	The big concern in Norwegian business is hardly what the Right believes about the property tax. I think Norwegian business know perfectly well that we're going to reduce it and eventually remove it, but not from the opposition here in Stortinget. We have to in other positions. The committee leader skips elegantly, is what Norwegian business is most concerned about at the moment. It is the two-track economy and the lack of investment in mainland Norway. It is alarming that the red-green majority is able to write such long, good remarks that you boast of yourself, holding such long posts where you boast of yourself – in the hall here – without mentioning that challenge. What are the measures that the committee leader will take to improve the situation of the Norwegian mainland industry, which everyone is aware of, and to improve the competitiveness of the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e209	The most important thing for the mainland industry is that we keep order in the Norwegian economy, that there is stability and predictability behind the state budgets we present each year, and that they take into account that we are in a strong competitive situation where the global picture changes almost daily and where the competitive situation is challenged. Keeping the economy in order and making sure that it does not have an interest rate and crown rate that evolves through political decisions is the most important thing. There is no doubt that the developments we have seen in relation to oil and gas, where they may leave farms with the greatest attractiveness of future labour, etc., give rise to reflections and reflections. The most important thing we can do in this context is that, through the wage-earning arrangements, we help the parties act responsibly so that we can control wage developments over time. But, as I said, the most important thing is to keep order in the Norwegian economy and make sure that, through political decisions, you don't get interest and dollar rates out of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e218	The opposition is often alone on proposals, and this time it is the proposal for an industrial notification. Last time this was discussed, which is less than a week ago, the representative of Aasland drew the following conclusion: ‘Our main conclusion in this case, which is that – let’s say – the clarifications about an industrial notification or a notice that mentions business, including industry, are continuously assessed’. It didn't make me or anyone much wiser, and my question to the representative is, Why does the Workers' Party have so much scepticism for an industrial message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e227	What we are most concerned about is Norwegian industry and Norwegian business, is to implement the right measures in a timely manner. This government has shown this from 2005 until now. The launch of massive investigations and, perhaps, the provision of some unnecessary public bureaucracy, is perhaps unwise. In terms of industry reporting in concrete terms, if you had turned back four years in time, it would have been a relevant discussion. In the last four years, however, we have strengthened Enova towards industry, we are putting in place a CO2 compensation scheme for industry, we have put in place a guarantee scheme for power contracts for industry, and we have put in place an environmental technology scheme for industry. I could mention several measures, but a number of things have been done that support the future of industry in Norway, without an industrial message being delivered. From this point of view, I do not fully see what should have been mentioned in that industrial communication, for most areas the government has already been in and done something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e237	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e241	Like Chairman of the Committee, Terje Aasland, I also intend to use most of my contribution to talk about the Advance Party budget. But now we're going to get the correct version of the budget and not the rewriting that the committee chairman tried to do in his statement. Never before has any government had more money at its disposal. Never before have we had a bigger room for action in the Norwegian economy. We in the Progress Party have created our alternative budget. This budget we chose to send to the Statistical Central Bureau because we would have assessed how this budget would affect the parameters on which the Committee's chairman himself was involved in his statement. The feedback from the Statistical Central Bureau was: no change in the exchange rate, a decrease in unemployment and an increase in economic growth – just what is actually needed in the coming period. I would first of all like to say that very much goes well in Norwegian business. It's doing a lot of good on many levels. When we look at what's happening in the world around us, Norway is actually a small oasis in a very golden landscape. Fortunately, there is also a sign of improvement in the world economy. However, what has started in many ways as a fiscal crisis related to bank lending practices and lack of security has now evolved into a very demanding situation in many countries, with extremely high government debt and high unemployment. There are particular reasons for concern when looking at the high levels of youth unemployment. In Norway, we have completely different challenges. Norway has no sovereign debt. We're actually lending money to these states. We have low leave, and we need outside labour to solve some of the problems we have in several areas. What is in many ways the big challenge here in Norway is that we have a two-part economy in terms of business. Oil and gas industries have a high level of performance because of their very good performance and their high performance due to high prices and high rates of extraction worldwide. While the traditional mainland industry, and especially the fishing industry, is struggling with low profitability and increasing costs just as a result of this two-part economy that we have. We're a relatively small country. That is why we are also very vulnerable to the competitiveness of the mainland industry. Not least, we are very dependent on being able to sell our goods and services in an international market. Norway's absolute largest market in this respect is the EU market, where we export nearly 80 pst. of our goods. Of course, it is worrying that the market is struggling. However, Norway is largely also a member of that market, through the EEA Agreement, which gives us access to the internal market, with the exception of agriculture and fish. In these two areas, however, we have bilateral agreements with quotas and the like. It brings us to the proposal that the government has promoted relating to the import protection of various cheese varieties and meat. The reactions to this have not been delayed by the EU team. It has been pointed out from very central people in the EU system that, if you choose to maintain this proposal, counter-reactions in this area could be expected, as the government has absolutely said. It'll be problematic. An overall fishing industry, which is already struggling with profitability, has expressed great dissatisfaction with the strengthening of this import protection as long as this government also relies on good quota conditions for fish species for export to the EU. If the EU chooses to respond to the Norwegian protectionist policy in the agricultural field of which we now see an even greater strengthening, this could cause problems for Norwegian fish exports in a longer perspective. This brings me to another field, and it is of course about the TaxFUNN scheme. It is regrettable that this government has chosen not to strengthen the TaxFUNN. TaxFUNN is a very good scheme to bring about better and greater innovation for Norwegian business in order to make us more competitive. Norway will never be able to compete in an international market because of its labour costs. We must then be more innovative – we must be among those who are at the forefront of technology in order to be able to maintain our competitiveness in terms of export-oriented business. Here the government should make a completely different effort than the one that exists. The Progress Party proposes in its budget to remove the tax FUNN ceiling, and in addition we propose to increase the hourly price that is also there. It could also be, if we read NHO Economic Survey No. 4 from this year that came in these days, it seems that there is an almost investment drought in the mainland economy. This may also be closely linked to the restrictive nature of bank lending to business. It is against this background that I point out the importance of just putting in place these seed funds, which I addressed in my line exchange with the committee's chairman. It's urgent to put these systems in place. What the government has proposed is to put in place two of the six, which you have previously marketed that you would get in place. I hope that this work is intensified. I also hope that other fiscal instruments will be looked at in order to raise more private capital in these funds, and of course tax depreciation is important here. So I want to go over what some people call net pay for seafarers, but that's actually a reimbursement scheme. The current scheme was introduced on 1 July 2008. A reimbursement scheme was introduced in Norway to cover labour costs, but limited up to a ceiling of DKK 198 000. This roof has been standing still since then. It has not been adjusted. That is, the scheme is getting worse for every single year that goes. We also see that the number of seafarers entering the scheme is decreasing. Therefore, the amount is SEK 1.6 billion. kr. We have to do something about this. The Progress Party believes that if we are to be competitive in the future in the light of shipping, we must ensure that we have a statutory net wage system that makes us competitive for years to come, and ask the government to submit proposals on this to the Stortinget. Until we get this in place, we must at least adjust the ceiling to the wage and price developments that we have had since the scheme was introduced on 1 July 2008. The Progress Party has included an increase in this sum in its alternative budget and an adjustment to that ceiling. Let's stop talking about Norway having a net pay scheme. This is not the case – we have a reimbursement scheme, as the ceiling of NOK 198 000 lies there. As I said at the outset, very much goes well in the Norwegian economy. We have a government that has great opportunities because there has never been more money available. What this room questions is the money you have – and that's why you have alternative budgets: If we spend the money correctly, will we get as much money as possible back for the money that's made available to society, the government that sits there and the government that sits there? The Progress Party has provided a budget. It has, as I have said, been calculated by the SSB, which has come to the conclusion that the budget of the Progress Party leads to lower crown prices, higher employment and increased economic growth. Finally, it may be worthwhile to consider the proposals that we either have on our own or that we have with others. It's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e273	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he himself mentioned. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e278	The City Council of Ålesund, where the representative Nesvik is a member, took a decision to increase – I repeat – the property tax by 10 pst. during the year's budgetary management. I thought the Progress Party was against property taxes, but it does show that theory and practice can be two different things. I'd like to quote what's in today's business today: «The tax policy of the Party of Frontiers slides around this fall like a Christmas table guest with fine shoes on a hole. The lot has neither a fortification nor a direction.» Can the representative of Nesvik understand that the voters are uncertain about where the Progress Party is in tax policy, and what do they actually think about when it comes to property taxes and wealth taxes, and can he provide us with an explanation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e290	Yes, I would love to. In Ålesund, the Progress Party promoted an alternative budget. The selected Ålesund City Council to vote. In that budget there was no property tax, there was a real decrease in the budget of property tax. It is the municipal law that says that when it comes to final voting, the municipality must have a budget. There were two alternatives left, and the municipal law made one vote for one of them – both containing property taxes. That's the result of what happened there. That's it. With regard to the tax on wealth, the alternative of the Progress Party has shown the direction of fiscal policy. We've increased the asset tax base. We've taken a number of steps that have positive effects on the majority of people, so yes, with regard to the tax policy of the Progress Party, it's the way it has been throughout the period. The Progress Party, like the Workers' Party, has a programme work in progress. Then you see what's going to be the final result when we get to the national meeting in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e299	In the innumerable food debates here in the Chamber, the Progress Party has attacked the property tax. But if you look at their alternative budget, and the budget that was discussed yesterday, there are marginal changes the Progress Party is making in the wealth tax, even when they are in opposition. Then my question is: is there a lack of action in the Progress Party that means that they will not be able to take advantage of their alternative budget for what they have promised for four years – even when they are in opposition – or is it simply to show the voters where they must cut in order to reduce the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e306	This is a historic day. I'm going to write in my book the day SV's Holmelid criticized the Progress Party because we don't have enough tax cuts. It's a brand day, and we're going to take it with us. If we look at the tax structure underpinned by the Progress Party, it is considerable relief. There's relief in taxes on wealth, there's relief in deductions, there's relief in a whole range of areas. We have improvements to the FUNN scheme. I think that Norwegian business would benefit significantly more from the Advance Party's budget than the SV's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e313	After the Progress Party presented its alternative budget, the differences between red-green policy and the Progress Party are very clear. Where the red-greens will ensure enhanced import protection, providing farmers with improved income opportunities, the Progress Party will reduce the protection support. Where the government will continue to increase transfers to agriculture, the Progress Party will greatly reduce budget support. Most importantly, the Progress Party will reduce the subsidies directly affecting the farmer’s wallet, as a price subsidy. The Progress Party clearly states that agricultural policy should no longer be part of rural policy. It will be hard for agriculture in District Norway, which is among the most dependent on the instruments available in the red-green agricultural policy. My question to the Progress Party is therefore: How will the Progress Party explain to the Norwegian Lander that he is no longer wanted?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e320	It is obvious that the central part of agricultural policy has gone wild in the forest. What the government has done is simply to reinforce further the means that are not actually operating in agriculture. Every day farms are laid down in Norway, while the Centre Party sits with the Minister of Agriculture. Every day, lights are turned off in a series of agricultural homes, because the framework conditions of this government are not sufficient for agriculture. So I think that the representative, Lange Nordahl, is also going to go on his own and in the government's policy. The Progress Party clearly has a different approach to agricultural policy. It was just supposed to be missing! The Progress Party is thinking of all consumers in Norway. We will ensure that Norwegian consumers are offered and a good selection of goods – not only Norwegian goods, but also foreign goods – so that they can choose for themselves. The centre party will choose for them. The Progress Party also wants other industries to have opportunities, such as: the export of fish. It's obviously not a theme for the Center Party. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e327	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e330	The major challenge for industrial policy both in the budget for the coming year and not least in the coming years is to maintain and recover our competitiveness where it is lost. It is our high cost level that has helped us to lose a lot of competitiveness in relation to the trading partners, as well as an increasingly strong krone price that weakens in particular the export businesses of the land-based industry. There are oil-related industries on the one hand, stimulated by high commodity prices, and other industries on the other hand, which face high cost levels and fierce competition for capital and, in particular, expensive labour, and a mainland industry which does not tolerate changes in the same way. We need to regain competitiveness, and this can be done by compensatory measures in the short term, not least in the longer term. That's what industrial policy, not just for next year, but for years to come, has to be about. We've seen OECD surveys, and we've seen NHO economic barometers pointing to the fall in industrial investment in Norwegian business. We must take this seriously when we know that we are fighting against competitors, who will be able to reduce their cost levels. We score high on many international measurements, but we can't use it as a sleeping cushion. As the chairman of the committee has said earlier today, the government is working in many fields and has done a lot of good, but the future is what you intend to do. We're trying to address some of this in our alternative budget. Education and research policies come in other budgets, but they are central to the competitiveness of the future. We have found room for another seed fund, rather fragmented to make it easier to raise private capital. I can certainly characterise this as more than a very good proposal, since the chairman of the Committee felt that his proposals on the same subject were very good. Then ours must be even better! We are strengthening the nationwide innovation loan scheme in Innovation Norway. We grant an increase in the nationwide establishment grant schemes. These are important mechanisms for bringing about innovation. I also want to stress our launch of an innovation stock exchange, which is just creating opportunities for private capital when businesses are in the phase where they can no longer obtain this. We want to spend more money on the BIA than the government. There's the potty project for hundreds of millions that you should take advantage of. We have often debated the tax FUNN scheme. The framework should be increased, not least for self-employment in enterprises on the research side. We also have good measures to strengthen the NCE programme, as well as the launch of the Global Center of Expertise. Then I want to point to partnership in the future's businesses. There we have not a large budget allocation, but an important signal that co-ownership in future businesses is going to be much more important than it has ever been. It is the heads and not the hands that are going to be the important thing, and in order to ensure both national membership and competence in the country, it will be very important to transform tax systems to stimulate increased ownership. The rules we have are from anno to that. This should do something about, probably more than what we have found space for in our budget. But first and foremost, the two-track economy is important. Although much is going well, we need to focus on the future competitiveness. I have also understood that the strategy of the opposition parties today is that there is dissatisfaction with the clarity of this with the taxes on wealth, and the committee's chairman gave a very strong visit to this area. Let me put it this way: our program is standing by. We both want to reduce and eventually eliminate the wealth tax, but unlike the Workers' Party, which is occupied by the 50-100-150 richest people in this country, we are occupied by some hundred thousand small business owners, who are struggling every day to make the company pay, and for whom the wealth tax means a great deal, given the future investments that can be made in the company to strengthen the competitiveness of one company that may often be in mainland Norway, which I talked about initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e347	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e351	First of all, a little clarification about the property tax. The Labour Party is occupied by the most prosperous people in this country in connection with the property tax in order to maintain a legitimacy in the Norwegian tax system, precisely to be involved and contribute to the community. Now I have registered that the Right Leader really believes the same thing. They don't want to remove the property tax until they're in and they pay. Removing taxes on wealth has been the most important and obvious signal to business. It has even been said by the representative Fleet – if I have not misunderstood him – in a number of debates that the wealth tax should be removed as soon as the Right comes into the government position. Therefore, a timely question – given the last few days’ opinions of both the Right Leader and the Right Financial Policy Spokesman: Does the representative understand the fact that it has created an uncertain picture out there of what the Right actually means? If applicable, can the representative Fleet clarify what is the Right Entry to the property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e358	I can at least help to clarify the confusion of Aasland's representative about this, because in the Right there is actually no confusion. It's quite right, as Aasland says, that Erna Solberg has said the same thing as the Workers' Party says, that those who have tax powers have to pay. But the removal of property taxes overnight is a statement that the representative of Aasland himself has made. What we have written about in our alternative budgets – it says that in the budget this year, which was discussed in the financial debate not long ago – are reductions, severe reductions, and the removal of wealth taxes. We also want to find a solution to make sure that those who have tax powers, perhaps with large assets, also pay taxes on wealth. But we're going to be careful, so we don't go into legal disputes, with political decisions and ideas here in the Stortinget that don't keep water when they get into the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e363	The next replicator is Irene Lange Nordahl. The president records that Terje Aasland wants a reply. The President would like to stress that when a lot is due to two lines, there is an opportunity to ask for it from the representative's place in the Chamber. The President has only registered the wish for one line, but it is a line available, so the representative Aasland will get it – before the representative Irene Lange Nordahl gets his line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e368	Thank you very much, President. It might have been interesting to challenge the representative Fleet on how the most prosperous could contribute, but I will not challenge it. We are waiting for answers from the Right Leader on that very topic – if they can ever answer what they actually think about it. I have seen the representative Fleet many times there that the Right is talking about the features of the property tax in business relief, not least in agriculture, etc., are incentives – which come immediately when the Right comes to power. Then I have a little reflection. Is that so when the Right now cuts about 1.5 billion? kr in the transfers to Norwegian agriculture, that one can expect 10 pst., 20 pst. or 50 pst. contributions to the reduction of taxes on wealth — or what is the nature of the tax? I record that in the documents, in the setting, they suggest tax relief for Norwegian agriculture of 800 million. on the basis of these tax proposals. Then I have to ask the representative Fleet if these tax proposals are still on the table – based on what has happened in the last 14 days?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e377	Nothing has happened in the last 14 days that has changed our views on fiscal policy. We have always said that this should be removed over time. It is clear that this will not take effect from day one, but I think the representative of Aasland knows very well that any alternative budget put forward in this house will not take effect from day one. That shows a direction. Even the government budget presented here does not have effect from day one. First, it's the first year. It also applies to the years that come. A good example of this is the seed funds, which you grant, but which you can't get started. So politics is a little bit longer-term than what Aasland's representative says. And I don't really understand that he can't see it for agriculture, when he looks at his own policy and at its implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e382	The right has long criticized the government for not doing enough for agriculture. When the Right now shows us what they themselves will do for this industry if they have access to the government offices, it makes the warning lights flash in the layers. Norway’s Bondelag concludes that the main effect of the Higher Agricultural Policy will be that most of today’s farmers will have to stop their operations. At the same time, the Right says that they have a goal of increasing Norwegian food production. My question to the Right is therefore: Does the Right really believe that an industrialized agriculture on the Jären and in the areas around Oslofjorden and Trondheimsfjorden will be able to cover up all the areas in District Norway that will undoubtedly be lying fallow with Right Policy? It is likely that Norwegian bramat production would be significantly reduced by Higher Agricultural Policy, so I will ask further: How does the Right consider that, for example. the food industry in the districts to survive?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e391	I am surprised that a calculation of Høre's agricultural policy, based on assumptions, based on a merger of the 2012 budget, of the 2013 budget and of various proposals for our forthcoming programme, written by the Norwegian Bondelag in Schweigaardsgate, is used as a basis for a responsible party in the Stortinget in a budget debate like this. Norges Bondelag, who has done this, and who has provided the Centre with this – let me call it – scare propaganda, assumes a number of figures based on something that is not the figures either in our agricultural reports or in our budgets. It's a play, it's a political play, it's based on scaring those who are in the industry. Right is a business party, and we will always have a predictable business policy for those who are in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e396	Europe is still in economic crisis. The unemployment rate is dramatic, and we are losing an entire generation of young people. But here in the country the situation is quite different. We have low unemployment, and new jobs are created every day. An offensive and forward-looking industrial policy contributes to this positive development here in the country. Success in Norwegian industrial policy is based on two important pillars: a broad commitment to competence as an important part of the Norwegian welfare model, and an offensive and forward-looking environmental policy. One of the strengths of competition in Norwegian business is competent and self-employed workers at all levels of the organisation. Norwegian workers are good at working independently, and they are good at taking initiatives across disciplines. The public sphere is the basis for this valuable competence that exists in Norwegian working life, and it is therefore gratifying that the results of the public sphere have improved during this government. The interaction between the knowledge environment and business is an important element of a dynamic and innovative business. SV is engaged in strengthening cooperation between industry and the university and higher education community. In many cases, cluster cooperation between large and small enterprises and the research community has proved to be very sensible and has good results. It is therefore gratifying that a Joint Committee wishes to build on these experiences and strengthen the mechanisms that build up during cluster collaboration. The goal must be to develop clusters in the international top layer of the selected area. We look forward to good cooperation between Innovation Norway, Business and Academia to further develop support schemes for cluster cooperation. But the opposition has a strange note about cluster collaboration. They mean to know that cluster collaboration is a non-red-green policy measure. It is probably just red-green politicians who have the tradition of developing and strengthening cooperation in the world of work. And the Progress Party, which owes it to the red-greens not to have the heart for cluster collaboration, cuts in this budget into national regional development measures – a budget line that is just about to strengthen cluster cooperation, i.e. the National Centre of Expertice. So on the one hand, you're criticizing the red-green not to have the heart for cluster collaboration, and on the other hand, the Progress Party cuts the funds for cluster collaboration. I would say that is consistent policy. Another area that is important for innovation in business is the transition from research and development to full-scale production. We have many schemes to support research and development, but we often have major problems when research and development are going to full-scale production. That's why we're very happy that SIVA has now added 250 million. kr in equity so that SIVA can contribute more to industrial piloting, both on process pilots and on product pilots. SV has always argued that good environmental policies are good business policies, and there are increasing numbers who are beginning to convey the same opinion. Environmental requirements combined with support schemes have led Norway to become a leading technological country in many areas. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the process industry, where I have extensive experience. Recently, we also received a strong declaration from the oil technology industry, where a central player said that without strict environmental requirements, we had not had the leading technological developments in the oil technology industry in Norway. What many people have fought against in the process, and for which SV has consistently been involved, is now proving to be one of the things that has actually raised Norwegian industry to the level of competence we have today. The farming industry is now facing major environmental challenges. It is probably the industry that has the fastest growth rate and that also has the most complex environmental challenges. That's why it's very happy that we've put in place green concessions, which SV sees as a clear commitment to that industry being able to develop a technology that makes it viable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e420	SV is one of the three government parties that are for increased organic food production, and perhaps the most intense batch. At the same time, these batches say that Norwegian food production will increase year by year. When you know that organic food production requires a lot more space to produce the same amount of food as normal food produced, you'd think this was a problem. At the same time, one knows that never before have so many tens of thousands of targets been built up, while not encouraging innovation. Then my question becomes: how will the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government manage to achieve its goals of increasing Norwegian agricultural food, while at the same time producing a larger part of organically?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e427	I'm very happy to have this question this year too. I think it's the third year I get the question, so that's why I'm good at it. I know some organic farmers, and I was recently visiting an organic farmer in Mandal. He lives on some knuckles that I don't think any traditional farmers would have used. There are many of the organic agricultural projects and many of the organic farmers who actually use land that is either steep or hilly, which means that other farmers wouldn't have found it economically defenceable to work there. In addition, the methods developed in organic farming are now largely infecting traditional agriculture and making it more resilient.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e435	SV has, like, the life of the last knowledge debate. Now it has been recognised that good results in school are important. It has even been said that when our young people deliver good results on the math test, it is a plus for the nation. But SV still holds on to the old mantra that it is the single school and the common school that really make way for the well-being. When I'm not a politician, I'm a business manager and I look after young people very often. For me, it is important to have an educational system that stands for diversity, because the need for business can be very different in terms of the type of training that young people should have. In view of Holmelid's struggle for the single school and the single school, I have a question: how am I going to be able to distinguish between two pupils who both have good results, one can come from a private school and the other from a single school? And what is the father if I hire the student who comes from private school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e442	I believe the representative has misunderstood the notion of the 'common sphere'. The common ball means that we're going to have space for everyone, unlike the right is often busy, that a single one should have space for the elite. In the common sphere, there's room for everyone, but it has nothing to do with not wanting to do. There are far greater possibilities of having a lack of a common school, where we all have a common school, where we can bet on different disciplines, and where we can bet on different disciplines, as we do in the continuing school, in contrast to the private schools that are very often single-tracked and uniform.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e447	On 6 March, a alarming report came from the Riksrevision. It insisted on white that the aquaculture industry had neither been sustainable nor adapted to the environment, and that there had been far too little done by the authorities to contribute to a more environmentally friendly industry. The industry itself said in the hearing on 3 December that the biggest challenge had been the increase in biomass without any sustainability requirements. This is the responsibility of the governing authorities at all times. Does SV think that the National Audit Office is wrong, or has the government had a management of the aquaculture industry that has not been sustainable and that has not been environmentally adapted?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e454	SV is very happy that the Christian People's Party is also engaged in sustainable farming, and we are – as I said in my main post, if the representative had listened to – very busy with sustainable industries. We're some of the people who need to tighten up their nutrition requirements. That's exactly why SV now has been given the advantage of awarding green concessions that impose extra stringent requirements on bearer power, and of developing a technology that allows the Christian People's Party and SV to be satisfied – perhaps in the longer term – with the sustainability strategy that is in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e459	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e462	The central party is proud of the budget presented by the government for 2013. The red-green government is now taking several important steps to ensure increased value creation and development across the country. Since 2005, the red-green government has been pursuing an active policy to secure the Norwegian economy and to secure Norwegian jobs. Since 2005, 300,000 new jobs have been created. Two thirds of them are in the private sector. Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and is classified as the sixth best country in the world to operate in. Only in 2012 have more than 20 000 new enterprises been started. Export growth is 34 pst. There is good reason to remember this when we see what challenges Europe is facing. The government has therefore been particularly concerned with pursuing a responsible economic policy – as we see in the budget – so that we maintain the competitiveness of our export-oriented business. Norway is going well. There is reason to stress when we are now debating the food budget. From the centre party we are pleased that the red-green majority, with the centre party at the head, has chosen to bet on trafficking in the budget for 2013. Strengthening infrastructure is important in order to strengthen the competitiveness of industry, and it is an area in which businesses throughout the country are particularly concerned. The central party is therefore proud that it is now granted over 14 billion. kr more for transport purposes than when the red-green government took over in 2005. This means that the growth in trade under the red-green government is 64 pst. In comparison, the appropriations for transport rose only by 6 pst. then the right last sat in government. Such a shift in trade was absolutely necessary, and we are going to continue this great effort even after the next fall. The centre party is concerned that we should have a viable agriculture across the country. To achieve this, and to achieve the goal of increasing our food production by 20 pst. The next 20 years, political will is required. It is then important to remember the three main pillars of agricultural policy: the agricultural agreement, the role of the cooperative and the protection of imports. In this budget, the red-green government strengthens the main support, namely customs protection. The government saw that customs protection was so vulnerable when it came to beef, lamb and cheese that in order to secure an agriculture and a food industry throughout the country, it was absolutely essential to go from the dollar to the dollar now. Through this intervention, the government ensures the volume of the food industry, ensures the possibility that one can discuss the price as other costs in society increase, and one can ensure the development of Norwegian agriculture in future agricultural settlements. When the government takes advantage of the scope of action provided by the WTO Agreement and converts from a dollar to a percentage, this is because the government will pursue a national agricultural policy and have a large, own food production across the country. Over time, inflation ate up the value of the dollar. Now the government provides a basis for balancing consumer considerations such as price and diversity over time with farmers’ need for price developments in raw materials that are proportionate to cost developments in Norway. In agricultural policy, we see the political divisions between the red-green and right-wing parties in particular well. While the red-green parties are concerned with strengthening agriculture, the Right will reverse this customs regime and remove budgetary resources. This is what the Norwegian Bondelag strongly warns against. Bondelagsführer Nils Bjørke says straight away that if the Right implements what they say they want, we get a dramatic change in Norwegian agricultural policy that we have never seen before. For all those concerned with Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry, there is good reason to call for warnings to prevent this. In the 2013 state budget, the government is following up a number of areas that are important to facilitate growth and development across the country. This applies not least to industry, tourism, mineral industry and the maritime food industry. The centre party has a strong commitment to the powerful industry, and we are therefore very pleased that the government in this year's budget was able to present a compensation scheme for CO2. These enterprises account for a large number of jobs and value creation in the districts, so this scheme also represents a good district policy. It is gratifying that the government in the budget is following up the new strategy for Norwegian travel. We are pleased that the government continues to focus on the mapping of minerals both north and south, and we look forward to the new mineral strategy to be presented over the New Year. We are also positive in the Centre Party for Green Growth in the Aquaculture Industry, and indicate that 45 new green salmon concessions are proposed. The red-green government shows the ability to invest and at the same time a balanced development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e502	This year there are only two sailors who have pulled out to drive self-afraid. We know that the cell stock is growing, and we also know that a cell eats 15 kg of fish every day. This could be a problem for the fish population. The red-green government has been running for almost eight years now, and we see that the number of shots goes down, and you reduce the self-anxiety. This is a problem. That's why I want to ask the representative: what does the government do to facilitate more shooting? And what will the government do in the future to make sure that we can keep the cell stock in check?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e509	This is a question to which enough the Minister for Fisheries is closest to answering, and I expect that the representative of the Minister for Fisheries will put the same question to the Minister for Fisheries. Let me stress that the Centre Party is very concerned that we are going to have sustainable development, and we are concerned that it must be harvested by the resources we have in the sea. We are also receiving a new year report on seafood, and there we are committed to facilitating sustainable development, where we need to harvest the animals that live in the sea, while at the same time facilitating growth and development throughout the marine food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e516	On November 27, the representative Lange Nordahl wrote an inauguration in the nations in which she strongly called for the retention of ownership restrictions in the farming industry. Today we were told that the government will liberalize these constraints. The proposed programme for the Centre Party states that the limitations of ownership should be maintained. I therefore assume that the representative will work to reintroduce these restrictions. The different opinions of the government parties create uncertainty for the farming industry. Will the representative support the liberalisation of ownership restrictions, or do we get red-green chaos in the aquaculture industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e523	The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has today sent out a press release on the topic addressed by the representative from the Right. There's a whole government that's behind it. I would also like to stress what the Minister for Fisheries says in this press release, that the government maintains the principle view of aquaculture in relation to the EEA Agreement, and that the government itself, on the basis that we have – our starting point is that it is important to have a restriction on ownership – has nevertheless come to the conclusion that they need to change the legislation that is in place. In what has now been sent out, there is also a sketch for future arrangements, where concrete demands are made on the large companies in particular. I would like to stress that from the centre party and from the government you are concerned that we need both large and small companies in the aquaculture industry. We're very committed to facilitating the small companies further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e533	Both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party know that many farmers around the country struggle to make ends meet. The agricultural settlement did not provide for the necessary increase in income, despite the fact that the agricultural notification established that income balancing was one of the most important things that could be done to maintain agriculture in the country. We also see that the tax system has a negative impact on the active farmers. The profit from the sale of agricultural land is currently taxed as revenue by up to 50 pst. if operating on the farm. If there is no operation on the farm, the gain is taxed by up to 28 pst. So it's worth cutting down. The Christian People's Party wants to change this, so that the sale of agricultural land, whether voluntary or involuntary, is exempt from taxation if the gain is reinvested in the agricultural holding. Does the Centre Party agree that tax exemptions should be introduced for the gain on the sale of agricultural land when the gain is reinvested in the agricultural holding?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e542	Let me first make it clear that on behalf of the Centre Party, I am proud of what we have done for agriculture in the government. We have achieved a chronically equal wage trend as other groups, we have increased transfers, the decline in consumption is significantly reduced, the degradation of food soil is halved, and now we are doing important customs duties. I will answer the representative of the Christian People's Party that in the partnership with the Right and the Advance Party in which they have thought, there will be completely different questions than tax to discuss. This will be the very basis for the overall use of agriculture that will be the major challenge for agriculture. I would like to repeat that to the Christian People's Party: in what way has the Christian People's Party intended to contribute to the goals they share with the red-green parties, in a government with the Right and the Advance Party, which wants an entirely contrary development of agriculture than what the Christian People's Party is engaged in?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e549	No answer is given to questions given in the reply in the reply. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e554	The high degree of industrial commitment of the Christian People's Party is based on administrative responsibility. Managing responsibility is about securing future generations the opportunities and rights we have now. It's about the environment, climate, value creation and food security. The custodian's responsibility is that we should be able to look our grandchildren in the eye and say, "I did everything in my power to make you grow up in a world and a society that is just as good and even better than what I grew up in." Then we need those who take care of our earth and who manage the food resources for future generations. We need those that every day put down a huge effort to get food on the table, namely the farmers. The Christian People's Party wants to build up under the active peasant to secure agriculture in all parts of the country. That is why it has been so important for the Christian People's Party to achieve a good and committed agricultural policy that ensures better instruments and clearer strategies and objectives. Unfortunately, the will has not been the same in the government corridors. The agricultural message arrived at this time of the year last year and offered better times for farmers. The formulations of the government parties in the agricultural debates during the spring created high expectations, which in no way were followed up at the farm settlement this summer. Negotiations were broken, and transfers in this budget are the result of a settlement with which neither the actors nor the authorities are satisfied, despite the fact that everyone agrees that sealing the income gap will be the most effective approach to increasing the recruitment of agriculture and halting the decline in the number of farmers. The tax system also has an adverse effect on the farmers. Earnings on the sale of agricultural land are currently taxed as personal income by up to 50 p.m. if operating on the farm. If there is no operation on the farm, the gain is taxed by up to 28 pst. So the tax rules on the sale of property give incentives to shut down operations. The Christian People's Party wants to change this so that the sale of agricultural land, whether voluntary or involuntary, is exempt from taxation if the gain is reinvested in the agricultural holding. At the same time, we want to remove taxes on working capital, and we want an investment fund by model from the forest fund. These are measures that will improve the profitability and conditions of farmers throughout the country. The Christian People's Party also believes that other industries need to be built from below, and that the main role of politicians is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and profits for distribution to important public goods. We must not forget that it is the future value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. Increased investment in research and innovation are key success criteria for a value-creating business. Innovation is probably the main driving force in the development of society. The Christian People's Party has a goal of Norway being the world's most innovative country, and innovation and innovation are driving Norway forward. I believe that the draft budget is characterised by a lack of commitment to precise innovation and innovation. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes, in its alternative budget, to strengthen innovation promotion and industrial research by about 250 million. kr and increase the appropriations for transport by approximately 790 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. The farming industry is one of the strongest growing industries in Norway, and it forms a major part of the value-added and job creation across the coast. The aquaculture industry is a large export industry and the export value in 2011 was close to 30 billion. kr. Norway has all the prerequisites to ensure that the Norwegian farming industry is world-leading in the environment, but this requires long-term structural changes in the regulation of the industry. To date, developments have not been sustainable and environmentally adapted, and this was confirmed in the National Audit Office’s communication, which recently carried out a verification hearing. The Christian People's Party is calling for action before new concessions are given, so that you can participate and ensure that the industry is sustainable in the future. There has been a significant development in closed and liquid farms, and a plan should be presented for the transition to an environmentally sustainable farming industry with closed maritime installations, or alternatively; measures to achieve an equivalent level of safety by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e587	In these times we talk a lot about double communication, and I think the Christian People's Party has beat all the records. Some time ago, the Christian People's Party went into the media in More and Romesdal and criticized the government's proposed CO2 refund for the fishing fleet, and they thought that this would lead to the hook on the door too many, and that this was also a anti-food policy. It is then worth noting that the inspection fee is being cut at the same time, resulting in a total reduction of 1.6 million. kr. This is the climate agreement in practice, and the Christian People's Party has been involved in the climate agreement. The size is, as I said, including the Christian People's Party. This needs an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e597	It is not double communication on the part of the Christian People's Party. We carefully reviewed the climate proposal and the climate agreement, and we found no conflict in reducing or removing the CO2 tax on the loaded fishing fleet we have today. That's why the Christian People's Party went in to remove that fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e605	Christian People's Party writes in its comments on generational shifts and not least on the safety of employees in connection with generational shifts. In this context, employee ownership is a very important issue, and we have addressed it in particular. in the post I kept here earlier today. It's about how important it is in the future that employees can also own, and that there will be better tax conditions, and that one looks at the whole of this, precisely because it's the heads that become more important than the hands in the future, but preferably both. I understand that the Christian People's Party cannot support our budget, it has already been adopted, but what I want to ask the Christian People's Party about is: Will the Christian People's Party support these intentions in future proposals from the Right to get a much stronger focus on employee participation and the conditions for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e612	We have recorded the comments from the Right and the alternative budget they have in this area. We see that several countries are facilitating exactly what the right here is proposing, with increased ownership. This we think creates loyalty. A good example of that must be if we compare SAS and Norwegian, where Norwegian has just this with the benefit of partnership. I think we can say that in the future we can have good conversations about a theme that the Christian People's Party thinks is interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e621	The Christian People's Party complains in a note that the government has shown little commitment to facilitating Alcoa in Finnmark, but now it's worth noting that the project that it was about when it came to Alcoa in Finnmark was built on gas power without CO2 capture. So does this comment mean that the Christian People's Party is now for gas power without CO2 capture in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e632	The answer to that is quite short from the Christian People's Party, and that is no. We are positive about the development that we see and want in Finnmark in terms of mineral extraction, but if we're going to go into a project with Alcoa, it has to be purification from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e638	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e641	The left wants a strong improvement in the framework conditions for Norwegian business in general and the smaller enterprises in particular. Norway needs a new and active enterprise policy that stimulates more innovation and facilitates business start-ups and diverse businesses throughout the country. A diverse and innovative business life is essential for Norway to succeed in an increasingly globalised economy. Public sector and public welfare depend entirely on the value creation of the private sector and on the fact that initiative-rich people rate, take a significant risk and turn ideas into action. Therefore, an increased focus on research and innovation is needed and better opportunities are needed for those who will create a job for themselves and others. Through reliable environmental taxes, the Left will guide business in an environmentally friendly and climate-friendly direction. The left will make it more expensive for businesses to pollute and much more profitable to convert into an environment-friendly and climate-friendly direction. Both in the financial debate and in the environmental debate last night, a lot of time and energy from the government parties were spent pointing out that the opposition did not agree with everything. That's absolutely true. But if there's one area where we're going in the same direction and we agree on a lot, it's in business policy. I am convinced that there will be a completely different and much more active industrial policy with a new majority after the elections in autumn 2013. The left is ready to take a leadership to pursue such a policy. In particular, we will work to make it easier for entrepreneurs to gain access to capital and knowledge in the first critical start-up phase. We will work for a strong increase in R & D investment in industry, both through increased appropriations for industrial research and grant schemes in the public sector and through the tax system. We want a tax system that stimulates the development and investment of Norwegian jobs and businesses. We are going to be working on improving the conditions for self-employed and individual enterprises. We will sharpen and release Innovation Norway, strengthen SIVA and coordinate public efforts in investment in and support for environmental and climate technologies. And we'll get further progress in the simplification work. Business costs relating to the form fields and administration of public bureaucracy and reporting have to be reduced by at least 25 pst. in the course of four years. All the 30 simplification proposals that the government parties voted down last week will be realised. In addition, let me dwell on a few points in the budget options of both the Left and the Government. To take the positive first: the left is very pleased that the Minister of Industry is following up an old Left representative proposal on the distortion of public resources in the start-up phase of growth enterprises – all credit for it. However, we believe that an internal redistribution of 34 million. kr within the Innovation Norway portfolio is at least made and proposed in our alternative budget to double the scheme with a further 34 million. kr. The most important thing, however, is that the scheme is in place. I am also aware that the government is working on a strategy to ensure an increased innovation effect of public acquisitions. It is good because public tenders tend to focus on safe but old solutions, rather than stimulating new and more forward-looking solutions. The Left believes that innovative public acquisitions have the potential to become a powerful innovation tool capable of addressing key societal challenges. If we are to succeed, however, we need incentive mechanisms to make the public sector an innovation driver for private business. The left therefore proposes the establishment of a 50 million grant scheme. for innovative public acquisitions which allow public undertakings to apply for exceptional public funds in order to make particularly demanding innovative purchases. We think it might be a profitable investment. A little about agriculture and fisheries at the end. The Left, in effect, proposes a few changes in these areas in its alternative budget. We propose strengthening resource research in the fisheries sector and increasing efforts in the field of nutrient measures in the fisheries sector, and we propose to wind up some agricultural schemes that we believe are directly in conflict with international commitments signed by Norway, such as: the management of biodiversity and the disposal of export subsidies for food.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e660	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e663	The left is engaged in manufacturing itself as a business, but is nauseated by the LO manager and the LO members. It sounds very bad about party cooperation and getting value creation here in the country. The left also states in a press release that the last seven years have been ‘the years of lost opportunities’. But 330,000 new jobs are created, 20,000 new share companies are going on this year, we have the highest employment ever, and we have the lowest unemployment rates. Where has Left actually been for the last seven years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e668	The short answer to that is that we've been in opposition. The longer answer is that a lot is done that's good. That's good order in the economy, that's what this government needs, and that's what we've been supporting. But then, as I also said in my speech, we want more incentives for new businesses and new jobs, and to do so, the Left has a number of measures. I can sum them up, because I have time for that. It is true that we want net tax relief on value creation, it is about reducing property taxes, it is about inheritance taxes, it is about better and more environmentally friendly depreciation rules, and it is going on better terms for tax discovery, fundraising and various other measures. Much good has been done, but much more remains to create new, innovative jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e675	Borghild Tenden just said on the pulpit that one was very much in agreement on the civil side. I would like to remind you that with regard to the net pay scheme, the red-green parties have provided predictability and competitiveness for Norwegian seafarers. But I don't see the consensus she talked about, in terms of just net pay, because the Progress Party will legislate, the Right and Christian People's Party will have a model of competence, and the Left will have nothing. So I think, where's that consensus gone? I also think, how will this be stressed in any negotiation between those parties? Does the Tend believe that there is a great deal of power in that debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e682	I also heard that the committee leader boasted of this net pay scheme, and that must be a major problem for the Workers' Party, which is internally a little divided – perhaps not only a little, but perhaps a lot of disagreement. I stand here with a quote from the Minister of Finance of today's Business June 13th this year: ‘We are too level playing field at the lowest level of subsidies. I believe that the EU countries are now making good sense to reduce their subsidies from A to Å and to use the funds for growth-promoting employment-promoting measures.’ So the challenge there I think is greater within the Workers' Party than it is between the parties that are in opposition. So it's also that this is subsidizing the shipping companies, subsidizing the rich. I find it strange that someone from the Workers' Party is too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e696	The left is hard on trade when they fight for the weakest in the world of work. Does this mean that the Left wants to get away from the Norwegian social model and will the tripartite cooperation between employers, workers and the public that has been a success in Norwegian working life and for Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e701	In no way – and we have actually been a driver of the tripartite cooperation asked by the representative. We have also been an inciter to popularism, which is also important. We have good history and good traditions to attend to what the representative challenges me, so he doesn't have to worry about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e706	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e709	This is the last budget debate in this prime budget period for the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and there may be reason to look up a little and see what a new four-year period of red-green policy has resulted in. On 9 August 2005, the then Minister of Industry, Børge Brende, said the following to the VG – he warned against a crisis in Norwegian business if the industrial policy of the Stoltenberg government was implemented: ‘Your policies will have dramatic consequences. The krone price will rise, the interest rate will rise by more percentage points, and it will chase jobs out of the country. Tens of thousands of jobs will be lost.» So the Minister of Industry, from the Right, said this in 2005. One would think that after nearly eight years of red-green government, the Right, Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left could now stand on the pulpit and brighter with the decline in Norwegian business, bankruptcies, job losses, high crown prices, high interest rates, lack of competitiveness and bad times. But this nutrition debate shows everything other than that. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are looking for some number or other that can describe that things are going bad in Norway. However, it is very difficult to find, and the proposals for an alternative industrial policy are also very difficult to find. On the contrary, what has been the flagship throughout the mass destruction period, namely the removal of the property tax, is being avoided. On the contrary, we now see that we have record growth in the number of jobs – 330,000 new jobs since 2005, two thirds of them in the private sector. We have record creation of new companies. In particular, since the simplification policy removed the audit obligation and reduced the share capital requirement, it has become easier to start up new companies. Our unemployment rate is the lowest in the entire OECD area. In 2005, the Minister of Economic Affairs was right in prediction of a crisis, but it came anywhere other than in Norway. Norway is simply the country that is the best in Europe. So one would think that in such a situation the government leaned back a little bit and said that now it's going so well that now we can relax a little bit on business policy. On the contrary: in the year that goes by, the best in Norway’s history – we have the highest GDP, the lowest unemployment, the highest employment growth, good competitiveness, record profits on the state budget, profit on trade balance – we strengthen industrial policy. We are increasing our efforts to make Norwegian business more innovative, more research-oriented, more competitive, focus more on simplification and support for the development of a dynamic business life. We strengthen the simplification work, we continue good ownership management in the department, we maintain and establish a fabulously good export financing system. There is also a record increase there that tells us that companies selling to other countries are doing very well. We are facilitating innovation and innovation, and we are strengthening what was the main direction after we took over, from the passive, business-neutral ‘toolbox is empty policy’ to a specific cluster policy, where we are betting on maritime industry, travel life, space activities and many other sectors where we are strong. The net pay system is a very, very important thing that symbolizes this clustering idea. However, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right propose a deep cut in this arrangement that ensures that we have this whole clustering framework around maritime policy, and the Progress Party is all alone in wanting a strengthening. It will be exciting to see if a majority of these parties are going to implement their policies – three plus one, of which the Progress Party is then in a minority, says quite clearly what direction another policy will take. One thing is the net pay system itself, but what's serious is to weaken the clustering. A country with five million inhabitants can't be the best at everything, but we can be the best at anything. The changes work, and we continue to simplify it by 100 million. kr extra to Altin in order to ensure quality, deliverability and operational safety in Altin. It's one of the best simplification measures we have. We're also strengthening the effort on EDAG, which will be a long step forward in using modern technology to improve the working day of business owners, managers and employees. We also strengthen research and development, by 2.4 billion. kr for nutrient research. The funds go to the Research Council and to space-related research, and we set off at the top of 1.5 billion. SEK to Innovation Norway. The GIEK guarantee framework is extended to 135 billion. kr. Export credit Norway has received 28.5 billion. kr to export loans in 2013. We conduct an active, good business policy, and let's continue it in a new four-year period for the benefit of Norwegian companies and Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e747	I hear a government council that boasts of the government and how much it has succeeded. But there have never been as many opportunities to succeed in business as it has been in these years, with the large revenues we have had in oil, gas, fish, etc. My question will be about mining and the message that has been promised for a long time. It would come in spring, it would come in summer, it would come in autumn, and it would come before Christmas – and now I have heard that it will come in spring 2013. Another thing Progression Party demand, is the mapping of the minerals we have around the country. For example: Finland and Sweden have surveyed 100 and 90 pst respectively. of the country, Norway has surveyed approx. 30 pst. My questions will then be: When will the message come? Why does the government not give priority to this important task of mapping our great natural resources in terms of minerals?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e758	Let me do it first. It is a fundamental misunderstanding to say that no government has had such great opportunities because things are going so well in Norwegian business. That's the opposite: it's because we're facilitating that we're doing well, that we're creating these possibilities. It is not that things are going badly in other countries because of lack of opportunities, but it is going a lot wrong because of misguided policies – lack of competitiveness, lack of investment in productivity, innovation and knowledge – while we have had a very active and forward-looking policy. Now we also see on the knowledge side that we succeed in creating greater knowledge results in school. The opportunity we have in the mineral industry is something we want to bet on. In the new year, the strategy will come. We've spent time, because we want to have good consultation with the sector itself. But we've already started the bet. Last year we increased the search in North Norway by 25 million. kr per year – 100 million. kr over a four-year period. In this budget, we also focus on the mineral industry, this time on mapping in South Norway, on strengthening mineral management and strengthening a professorate at NTNU. So we're already implementing the strategy, and it's coming in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e767	I said in my post that very much goes well in Norwegian business, so I can support much of what the Council of State has said – I have repeated that in this room several times as well. I don't think I can join the Council of State in concluding that they're going to have four new years. I really hope that won't happen. But we'll take that when we get out next year. My question to the Council of State is just about the two-part economy. It is clear that the competitive sector, which is very export-oriented from Norway — one can look at fish exports and some other things — is struggling in the markets as a result of the increase in wages and costs associated with the oil and gas sectors and affecting other sectors as well. The Council of State was not in it at all. I also believe that the Council of State must take over, in its eagerness to tell about how well the government is doing, that, after all, Norway has been somewhat affected by what is happening in the oil and gas sector – off our coast. Can the Council of State say anything about the two-part economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e776	It is very important to be aware that when things go as well in Norway as they do now, with as low unemployment and so strong growth in some industries, there will be demand for key labour. That's good, because that means that the labour force is channelled into industries that are very productive and provide us with good income. At the same time, it's an independent goal not to become too one-sided in our business structure, so it's to contribute to, for example. training more, attracting external skills to Norway, ensuring that we have a good supply of labour and continuing training is extremely important. We also strengthen the competitiveness of different sectors through the innovation package. We did so with the paint industry – as the representative knows well from his own state – in the spring of 2010, when they did not. We helped them over a knuckle, not by subsidizing, but by innovation and supporting development. We did the same with the woodworking industry in ours, and we are going to be busy helping with innovative programmes in the sectors that are struggling during the drop in exports and high cost levels in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e787	The state council has in its articles framed up all the good things that go well. A lot of that is agreed. It is also true, as the Council of State says, that mineral mapping is being done — first in the north and then in the south. We have agreed to this both in the comments and in the budgetary process. It's not that the rapid growth in China can be due to the amazing red-green policy. They probably had a lot of work to do themselves. It's probably that we need to grow in other parts of the world we're going to sell minerals – but I'm not sure if I'm going to get the Council to agree with me in such a statement. In any case, the mineral strategy has been called for, and now it is announced that it will come in the new year. Among other things in the United Nations, the Council of State stated that the professional basis for the maritime landfill in Fördefjorden was good, while the Ministry of the Environment has raised doubts as to what the professional basis should be. My question to the Council of State is: Will the strategy, when it is available, provide an answer to what should be on a professional basis for these processes? I think that might be important for long-term industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e800	Environmental considerations and the processes of taking the precautionary principle seriously also in relation to the landfill of waste after mineral activity will be part of the strategy. But we're not going to make system changes on how this device works. We give our input, but ultimately it is the Ministry of the Environment that makes decisions based on the knowledge that has been generated. We know that the learners often struggle, and experts may have different opinions. The more important it is that we have competent professional environments that can make thorough assessments. No one has earned that the mineral industry repeats the sins of old times not to take the environment seriously. The industry historically has a well-deserved bad reputation. Now we've got a new legislation, we've got strict rules and we've been asked to set aside money to clean up the process during the production phase. I think that should help us combine good nutrition, good mineral development and contribute to the world's mineral supply while taking good care of environmental, fisheries and nature interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e805	I want to raise a question that I asked the Minister of Industry last week when we dealt with small and medium-sized enterprises. I did not get an answer – I did not get a good enough answer, I think – so I tried again. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the opposition, wants the Alliance and the NHO to eliminate the wealth tax on working capital. Why is it so important for the Council of State not to remove the wealth tax on working capital, when almost everyone agrees that it will benefit both industry, maritime industry, small and medium-sized enterprises and all other industrial activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e812	I have been among those who have made themselves spokespersons so that we should look at corporate taxation in Norway, among other things. to tax different property items more equally. But I also said at the time that there are three more solar assumptions for such a conversion. We have to maintain the tax revenue. We don't have a penny to lose either in the health sector, in the school sector or in the care of the elderly. Simplification, improvement and efficiency should lead to even more services, not tax cuts. We have to maintain distributional effects, and we have to maintain that no one becomes zero-taxors. Now, after seven years, it seems that the opposition has suddenly discovered that removing the property tax is giving zero value added tax providers. However, they should be taxed, possibly because a letter and a nice recommendation to deposit some money into an account – after removing this tax. Working capital and other capital are a difficult distinction, because bank deposits also give rise to investment in business and produce, and it can also lead to more bureaucracy. We're very concerned about simplifying the situation for Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e819	The Government writes in its Communication on Innovation Norway and SIVA that SIVA’s incubation programme has contributed to the establishment of business development environments where a significant number of enterprises have received decisive early-stage assistance. The evaluation of SIVA shows that incubation as an instrument contributes to the effective development of start-ups. I am aware that SIVA has asked the government to step up its efforts to incubate as a result of the good results. The left has strengthened this scheme by 75 million. kr in its alternative budget. My question to the Council of State is: why does the government not want to be involved in a strengthening of the SIVA information program, as we know that this works?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e827	We have a significant commitment to that kind of support for incubation and networking, etc. in the budget, inter alia: We also announce a bet on the network for Business Angels, which I know the representative's party has been busy. In the 2013 budget, we prioritised a formidable strengthening of property investment in SIVA. That's where the shoe pressed most. That was where large industrial projects could be realized by having a solid increase. We hope that we will also contribute to the launching of several industrial projects. We also have to remember that not all the incubator environments are necessarily public. Universities, colleges and research parks make such arenas. Last morning I was at a private incubator environment, MESH, which lies right down the street here in Oslo. There are many initiatives that help to provide entrepreneurs with good working conditions. That's the sum of this I think is very good in the budget for 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e836	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e839	Norway is doing well, with stable and predictable economic governance and responsible use of money. There are policies that ensure the well-being of the country and provide a high level of employment, innovation and a stable framework for business. It is a characteristic of this government and a policy to be pursued. There are challenges for parts of the mainland industry, including. a. having a Europe in crisis as its main market. It is then important that we have a government closely following developments, which is willing to take action when necessary, support for business development, identify new markets, products, etc. There are many examples of this. The Labour Party will have work and housing throughout the country. District and agricultural policies are interrelated. The development of agriculture has a major impact on the food industry. The volume production of milk and meat in districts is important for maintaining the food industry throughout the country. Agriculture demands service industries and is the basis for many types of competence jobs in the districts. Even in the case of travel, rural agriculture plays a major role, with experience products and cultural landscapes. The strong trends in centralisation and urbanisation we have in society call for active rural and agricultural policies. Then we have to have policies that enable young people to get opportunities and want to establish themselves with work and housing in District Norway. Imports of agricultural products, especially from the EU, are strongly increasing. In order to ensure our own volume production of milk and meat in the districts, the percentage duty on some meat and cheese products is extremely significant. This overall agricultural and rural policy is in stark contrast to the liberalisation of agricultural policy by the right-wing parties, the reduction of rural policy and the protection of the borders of agriculture. If we look at the experience of liberalising agricultural policy, it has led to a decline in production. Swedish agriculture, concentrated in South Sweden, has a poor economy, and in Denmark, agriculture has been so indebted that bankruptcy is not uncommon at all. I am startled by the fact that the right parties in Norway now announce that they will copy this policy towards Norwegian agriculture – the same policy that has been so negative in the countries that have practiced it. I noticed that the Right cutter approx. NOK 32000 per year in the agricultural holding, and then the impression is that this is to be compensated by tax relief. In my view, the relief in the taxes on wealth will be of little benefit to the active, investing farmers. This, together with the other cut-off proposals in the Right Budget and the reduction of border protection, will have devastating consequences for rural agriculture in my view. It will further speed up structural changes and ensure that food production concentrates only on the very best areas. In a constellation with the Progress Party, which cuts DKK 140 000 in the agricultural agreement, this will dramatically reinforce the negative impact on agriculture. It is this agricultural policy the Christian People's Party will lean against in a possible government option – the party that argues in debate for a more red-green agricultural policy than what we are almost able to deliver! I interpret this in such a way that the Christian People's Party is sacrificing agriculture to government. Government parties will help us to have active agriculture across the country, an agricultural sector based on the leadership of the agricultural notification. We will preserve, not rage, the agricultural agreement, build on cooperatives as market regulators and have robust border protection. This is what gives farmers across the country opportunities to invest in agriculture, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e858	The Progress Party wants an agricultural policy from political governance to see the farmer as a self-employed person in line with other small business managers and small business owners. The farmer's task is to produce good, healthy and safe food and not to stand by the bureaucrats in the department. The Progress Party will facilitate food production rather than a system of some kind of community gardeners. Norwegian farmers need to have a simpler regulatory framework to deal with and to a greater extent to be released from public governance. The work on simplifying and modernising agriculture has stopped completely with the red-green government. The Progress Party believes that it is time for the government to show the power of action and give farmers the opportunity to decide for themselves how they will operate their own business. We want to reintroduce the full freedom of property and production for the food producers. The need for the current system of aid schemes will then gradually be reduced. We will also introduce a compensation scheme, which will support those who are adversely affected by changes in agricultural policy for a period of time. We also believe that conversion measures must be implemented for those who want to produce new industries in agriculture and who want to market their output. With the Progress Party in government, Norwegian farmers will receive significant tax relief. The Progress Party will have a new agricultural policy that can underpin robust Norwegian food production across the country and which can offensively face international competition and exploit export opportunities in a freer food trade. The Progress Party also believes that the socialist agricultural governance system is an obstacle to developing food production towards consumer considerations and away from bureaucratic constraints. The Progress Party is disappointed that the other parties in the Grand Duchy are not taking a settlement with an agricultural policy that has failed in terms of the objectives of housing, employment and income levels. We see three farms being closed down every day, 21 farms per week — even on Sundays, farms are being reduced in Norway. The agricultural industry has undergone major upheavals, and in the last 20 years the number of production units has halved. Despite negative developments in low incomes and closures, production regulation policies and limited ownership continue to exist. The Progress Party considers it urgent to introduce a new agricultural policy through an entrepreneurship model where private ownership and industrial freedom are central. We believe it is important to separate business and district policies and to ensure that the farmer regains freedom of nutrition through full ownership and the right to control his own production. Competition is an important prerequisite for a good entrepreneurship environment and therefore the established mechanisms preventing this need to be phased out as soon as possible. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals to strengthen the freedom of nutrition of the farmer, such as: by softening rigid production and market regulation which restricts competition and prevents producers from developing production. The Party considers that freedom of establishment in all productions must be restored and will only maintain production restrictions which ensure the environment and good animal protection. The party proposing a reduction in subsidies on production and indicates that greater freedom of nutrition will provide better income for food producers than passive support schemes provide the basis for. We also want to transfer a support scheme from land to production. As one party, we have put forward proposals for a 1.5-billion-dollar scheme. kr in conversion aid for agriculture, which shall contribute to conversion and innovation. The Party considers that the agricultural industry must find its place among the usual productions seeking a market in the most open competition possible. Our policy provides for modern framework conditions that will create new opportunities for food production across the country. Those who have followed in recent agricultural development have also recorded that more and more farmers are now going public and criticising the government's agricultural policy. We saw it, among other things. in the agricultural sector, when demonstrations were made against the Centre Party and the Red-Green Policy. The agricultural industry is characterised by decline and pessimism due to its framework conditions. Farmers are dissatisfied with low income opportunities and low nutrition freedom, and consumers are dissatisfied with Europe's highest food prices. The Progress Party also notes a challenge for agriculture due to floods and landraces, as we have seen this year. We saw this, among others. in the state of Troms, where the municipality of Målselv was hit hard. There was the Minister of Agriculture visiting, promising gold and green forests, and helping. Today the farmers stand back, disappointed that you do not get the help you were promised. This is what the Progress Party believes is important, and so we've added another 8 million. kr on an item in the budget to help farmers in the event of natural damage. It's also important to look at the excesses because if you have rented land today, you pay a fraction on land rent and a fraction on other land, instead of paying one fraction for all the land you run. That way, you punish farmers who want to drive a little bit bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e881	Most Nordics have a close relationship with the food served on our plates. It can be salmon from Hitra, fenal years from Bjorli, wild sauce from Austevoll, cheese from Tingvoll, bathed meat from Namdalen, apples from Hardanger or peas from Ringerijke. Norway is a country with long food traditions. While we are friends of new and good tastes from abroad, we get an increasingly strong relationship with Norwegian food. For the Right, it is important that we have a viable agriculture in the future that can still give us good Norwegian tastes. We want agriculture to meet the challenges of the future and farmers to see profitability in delivering good Norwegian food by applying healthy agronomic principles. Agriculture has a strong link with traditional civic values such as respect for private property rights, the belief in local self-government, the freedom to conduct business and the protection of culture and nature. We see more often that these values are put under pressure. Farmers experience interference with ownership, through the prohibition of sharing, the obligation to live and the pricing of agricultural property. The concept of ‘INON’, so-called non-interventional natural areas, is a major challenge in rural areas. State environmental management has defined a natural area as a non-interventional zone if it lies more than 1 km from heavier technical interventions such as roads, power lines, construction, etc. These areas affect today 70 pst. of the land area in Norway and imposes considerable restrictions on what you can build on your own property. INON, which is not statutory, is the largest attack on ownership in recent times and does not compensate for the loss of land value. Another example of agricultural values being put under pressure is the many regulations. Many farmers meet concession limits on production. Co-operations close their heads to the quota ceiling and are not allowed to continue on efficient poultry farming. These are limitations that put an end to the local initiative and value creation. The right-hand starting point for agricultural policy is that farmers should be self-employed and that this is a job that needs to be strengthened. The right agricultural policy shall pave the way for all stages of food from land to table. Agriculture and food production are also important for the food and drink industry. The right will pursue a policy to increase Norwegian food production by creating a more profitable and viable Norwegian agriculture. The most important thing is to give the industry new opportunities to develop and reduce dependence on public support. A profitable agriculture will provide the basis for housing and cultural landscapes in Norway but will also provide the basis for other industrial activities. The right considers that the country should continue to provide financial support to agriculture. But subsidies need to be more targeted and less bureaucratic, so that the farmer has to fill out forms to a lesser extent than today rather than spending time on making value. One of the major challenges facing Norwegian agriculture is detailed, complex grant schemes and strict management. Many of the grants are also ‘side’ of what can be called agriculture and do not stimulate food production. The right considers that this should be amended. We want to focus agricultural aid on stimulating increased food production, within the framework of international legislation. We want to strengthen profitability and investment by providing targeted tax reductions that benefit farmers. Increased agricultural deductions and increased depreciation rates are examples of this. We will also implement a strong strengthening of ownership by removing the price regulation on property, removing the ‘state’ dwelling obligation, removing the INN as a concept and softening the ban on sharing. Much concrete action can be taken to increase profitability and stimulate increased food production. I want to highlight the organisational form of ‘cooperation’. A cooperative is an association of several dairy farmers that combines production and provides an efficient form of operation. Many co-operatives are struggling with weak economies in connection with large investments in new operating buildings and new technologies. The current quota limit is inadequate because the milk robots used today cannot be used optimally. One of the benefits of working in a joint venture is that overall competence makes operations more professional and efficient. Under the current government, cooperatives have felt undesirable. The discussion of a common quota cap on milk is one of the greatest uncertainties. The ambiguity of the government's signals prevents the deployment. The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research makes calculations using the model «Jordmod», an advanced model that can simulate the effects of agricultural policy. Right-wing agricultural policy for the period 2009–2013 was expected to provide: approximately the same level of production as the government batches approximately equal to the regional profile of the Centre lot;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e912	Norway's natural wealth comes from the sea. Here we find Norway's largest natural resources. The sea gives us work, food, transportation routes and energy. In addition, it's literally a source of recreation. By managing life in the sea and the marine environment in a sound manner, we are guaranteed eternally renewable resources. It is important, not least for the supply of food, because in the future, the need for food for a growing world population in general and for increased demand for seafood is expected to increase in particular. These factors will drive growth in marine value creation in Norway. Although the natural assumptions are good, we must constantly develop and improve the opportunities that the sea provides us with. The government's goal is for Norway to be the world's leading maritime nation, and I will present my own maritime food report to the Stortinget in spring 2013. Let's take Norway on. In autumn the government proposed the award of 45 new green salmon concessions in 2013. These concessions provide opportunities for increased seafood production within sustainable coastal environments, and in particular in Finnmark and Troms. I hope and believe that this round of awards will increase the incentives for innovation and help accelerate the development of new and more environmentally friendly technological and operational solutions. I want solutions that are better than what is currently in general commercial use for the sake of salmon and escape. In addition to the environmental benefits that green concessions can bring, I hope that an additional effect may be increased export of farming technology. The government has today announced changes to the rules on ownership control in the aquaculture industry. It will be opened for companies to own more than 25 pst. of the production capacity of the salmon farming industry. At the same time, there are stricter requirements to contribute to local activity, to recruit apprentices and to research and development. Through these proposals, we will ensure increased value creation and activity in coastal districts. The current budget is important for the development of Norwegian seafood. But even more important is the overall economic policy. Therefore, many along the coast are waiting for the line of a bourgeois government with the Right and the Advance Party at the head. If we get some clarification today, it remains to be seen. At least it is not possible to read what such a line should be. For here, too, it cracks violently on the bourgeois side, from the Christian People's Party and the Left on the one hand to the Progress Party on the other – and then we have the Right a little in between here. As I said, the coast is waiting in suspense. Let me end by stressing what the Minister of Industry said in his speech: Norwegian business is doing well. This also applies to the seafood industry. With the exception of last year, and possibly now this year – now the year is not over yet, so of course we do not have the total list of export figures – Norwegian seafood has increased the export value every year with a red-green government. It would not be a belief when the doomsday prophecies were read up by a former bourgeois government. I also record that the maritime food industry appreciates a government active in improving market access, a government that demands sustainability, and a government that is tough in international negotiations – in short, a government that operates an active industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e936	Active business policy of the Government for fisheries and, inter alia: increasing the protection of agricultural imports creates problems for the fishing industry. You say you have to introduce 45 new green concessions. I'm questioning what these green concessions are, because it's not from the proposition of the Council of State. But the Council of State is able to budget with the use of the money, both with the money for county councils – as the Council of State says – and the revenue for the state, but cannot tell Stortinget what these green concessions should be. That's why I want to challenge the state council here and now. In fact, I believe that all concessions should be green, because the farming industry itself is very important to the coast and must have strict demands on it. But what's the special, new thing about these concessions that make them so very green? What's in that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e943	At least I agree with Mr Nesvik's representative on one point, and that is that the farming industry is important for the coast. So we're going to look at a lot of big and small places. Let me also take two words about this increased import protection. We had a row earlier here in another debate where it was shown that the EU threatens the marine food industry when it is irritated. The European Union and representatives of the European Union are annoyed, but I have checked with those who were in Brussels on the same day as the representative of Nesvik. Seafood was not mentioned in a word when it came to that matter. In the case of green concessions, at least most trade unions agree that there are two challenges: lice and escape. Now we're going to work on the allocation regulation in the department. It will be sent to the hearing, and certainly everyone will be able to make recordings of it. Fully measurable requirements will be set for improving the lice level and improving the safety of escape in relation to green concessions. Otherwise, there are two green colors. It's a little bit light green, and then it's a dark green class.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e954	Now I'm surprised if you're no longer in the process. What is the case here is simply that you have budgeted the money, and I expect that when this government is going to keep its budgets, the real money you're discussing is. Here it turns out that it's almost monopoly money, because you don't know if the requirements you want to impose will make someone want to sign up for these concessions. The requirements for the concessions – 35 of them – are for you to submit a concession and get two more back, with the extra strict requirements to which the council refers. Here, there is uncertainty as to whether or not to meet this during the year. It depends on what requirements you set. But you've managed to budget 450 million. of this money in the budget. It must be respectfully declared to be a monopoly money if it has not yet been established with regard to the requirements and certainty that someone will actually have those concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e961	I've played a lot of monopoly in my life, but I've been working a long time in the aquaculture industry. If there's something I feel completely secure about, it's that these concessions will be traded. I have now had many visits to my office, and I have been out a lot and traveled and have been presented one sustainable solution before and the other after. It's everything from grids around the facilities to closed systems – there's an abundance of solutions – escape-proof nuts – I could have rammed up the pole and stashed down. I am absolutely sure that the farming industry is going to put this into practice with the incentive that lies here. That regulation will be ready for consultation relatively quickly in the new year. We also need experts to evaluate it, not least when the award is to be made. But with the power of the Norwegian aquaculture industry, and the will and desire for growth, I can be absolutely sure that that money will come in, both to the county municipalities – eventually – and to the state treasury.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e969	‘So shimmering was never the sea’ – and now it is shimmering green, in some shade. The Minister of Industry, as one of the key principles of the Red-Green Government, presented simplification for business. The State Councils of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast have recently brought together three different issues. One is consultation on the delivery obligations of transmission lines. The second is the concession round with 45 more or less green concessions. The third is today, where a hearing on this issue is announced with ownership restrictions – ownership restrictions that, incidentally, not very long ago, should be ‘dose’ Right out of the country, because they claimed that we would only have one owner. I am a little interested in how the Council of State believes that the government's simplification principle has been managed in the three processes I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e978	The three areas on which the representative Bakke-Jensen points out here, I am aware that the Right has a different view. I am convinced that the people of Finnmark must have value creation based on the fish that is fished outside Finnmark. If Bakke-Jensen disagrees with that, it's fine. The same goes for green concessions. There I am aware that the Right wants to release it: the more, the better. In terms of ownership restrictions, it's exactly the same, there's no constraints either. I record that the business community appreciates what we come up with, at the latest the decision to change the restrictions related to ownership. I'm recording that Marine Harvest, who will probably notice this to the degrees, says that the department makes tough demands, but there are demands that bring the industry in the right direction. It will certainly create new jobs and develop new skills. We believe that the new rules are wise and forward-looking. That's what Marine Harvest says. It's a confirmation that this is something the industry wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e987	I also want to get into these green concessions. I think it's both exciting and not least environmentally friendly, but it's hard to figure out what the requirements of the concessions are, and how to meet them. The Minister for the Environment said in the hearing on 3 December: ‘What we have published says is that a professional body, a college, will be set up that is responsible for defining precisely those requirements.’ The document we received in connection with the proposal states: ‘A professional collegial body, appointed by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast, shall assess whether the minimum criteria have been met for the 35 authorisations requiring redemption.’;» [[...]] Is it true that the requirements are set, as the Minister for the Environment claims, or are they set, as the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs claims? To be honest, who's wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1002	It will continue to be that the regulations are adopted by the ministry, no doubt about it. It's not something that becomes "outsourced" to experts. But the experts have to be absolutely involved in the design and the technical requirements, so that we are absolutely sure that we are meeting the objective: to put in place new solutions that are better environmental in terms of lice and escape than we have today. But there is no doubt that it is the department that is still going to lay down the regulation. It should, of course, also be consulted, so that all those who wish to take a stand on the matter will of course have the opportunity to do so, in line with normal practice, as regulations are laid down. But I am also very concerned that we should bring professionals into this, so that we are absolutely sure that we will meet, and we should also involve professionals in the selection of the best solutions for new, environmentally sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1009	The left has taken a clear stand. We will ban the release of mining sludge and other pollution in our fjords. It's a policy we also see around us in other countries. The EU closed its mine landfill in 2003 and countries such as China, the United States, Australia, Brazil and Canada have in practice also banned maritime landfills. As the Left sees it, it's both eye-catching and unacceptable if the government wants something else. I could imagine hearing the Fisheries Minister's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1014	I am a member of a professionally based policy development, including in this area. I believe that in these kinds of questions – as in many other questions – professionalism and knowledge must be at the bottom. Knowledge developments in this area are very important. That is why I and my department have asked many questions that need to be clarified first. The first thing to decide is that a just total and absolute is opposite everything – however – and put your heels in the ground and say no, no, no, I am not a follower of. On the other hand, I am very much in favour of getting a knowledge of the effects of any measures, of emissions from the mining industry or of any other discharge for that matter. The sea is – as I said in my post – our source of food, it's a source of energy, it's a source of recreation. It's an eternal resource that we're going to take good care of – as this government has done and will continue to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1019	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1022	I noticed that the representatives of the Right were clearly annoyed in the debate in this Chamber yesterday at the representative of Ingelill Olsen and other workers' party representatives who spent part of their speaking time talking about Right Policy. Today, the representative fleet reacted to seem very frustrated that the representative Terje Aasland took a long time in his speech to tell us about our policy. This is my last budget debate in this Chamber and the last before the 2013 elections. I'm not going to let this opportunity focus on the differences in blue-blue and red-green fisheries policy go away from me. When you read the budgetary remarks – and to the extent that if we take the opposition's programme in the same sling – it is quite clear that with the Right and the Advance Party in these government corridors, well supported by the Christian People's Party, there will be a marked change in the direction of the fisheries policy. But if we stop up a little bit and take a little look around the coast, we see that our fisheries management is a success. It's going well along the coast. There's actually not so much poverty to track. I'm also very tempted to say that the fish that swims around the sea is better off with red-green politics, but it's probably going too far. We have solid fish stocks, the spawning stock of cod in the Barents Sea is at its highest level after the war, and we have large quotas. During the examination of the fisheries agreement last week, I registered that the Progress Party praised our Minister for Fisheries and Coast for good work. That's good, and it's very deserved – even though the representative Nesvik today broke with the springs in a line change with the minister. It is a good budget in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. In place are the start-up appropriations for a new ice-going vessel, more to the coast of NTP, more to BarentsWatch, more to the monitoring of the marine environment, more to climate research, more to research on fish health, removal of coastal fees, continuation of the leadership grant, as well as support schemes for reception stations – which are important measures to contribute to a decentralised reception structure. But the most important thing is that the government's 2013 draft budget is well adapted to the economic situation, with great international concerns. We are a small country with close economic ties to the world around us. Europe is our largest export market. If you stop this export here, Norwegian fishing will be very hard. That's why it's important to have ice in your stomach and not open to such economic experiments as the Progress Party stands for. I have to say that I am satisfied that the Progress Party does not put anything in between and is honest in the direction they want for this industry. It's very clear in the comments. Worse is it with the Right. It is quite clear that it is an election year. Right is careful to get out of the closet, precisely because they know that the majority of people along the coast don't want this kind of right-wing policy. The most concrete is actually the Right's proposal for the program, which Right's repeatedly trying to turn away. If we move this a little together, along with the policies of the Progress Party, we will experience a new direction – a strong liberalisation of this industry. That's bad news for the country. The right’s proposal for amendments to the Raw Fish Act and the Participation Act will lead to the collapse of power and capital. As a result, fishing resources are no longer the property of the community, resources that in turn form the basis for coastal settlement and employment. The working party will tighten delivery obligations to ensure coastal land-based fishing work places and to increase the profitability of the fishing industry. I record that it will neither the Advancement Party nor the Right. They believe that tightening is not the way to go. The Progress Party proposes, as we have heard earlier today, to cut significantly to the Fisheries Directorate. In total, this is a dramatic conversion of Norwegian fisheries policy. The Labour Party does not want such a policy. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Torgair Tåldal: I have not seen any demonstration trains in support of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1045	Are you a sportsman — for example: football players – and are able to make goals, whether in the sixth division or in the top level, you are a hero and are held up by the big masses. For example, you win. Five million. kr in Lotto, you are congratulated and wanted happiness, get flowers and become popular. If you dare to create your own job by betting everything you have and more into, as well as sacrificing all your leisure time, you will experience very little of that which came out in the other two examples I gave. If you are able to expand your business and create more jobs, you will receive strict legislation as a thank you. If, after all this, you go bankrupt or volunteer, the comment you can get is, what I said, this will never go well. The Progress Party believes that it is very good that some people create their own and others' jobs, and the Progress Party will be of those who cooperate with them. We've been doing that every year, and we'll keep doing that. In order to create values, we need legislation, framework conditions and predictability that will give people a sense of urgency. In Norway, we have never been as rich as we are today. While other countries are struggling, we are doing well in many ways. But we're struggling a lot in competition with other countries. Never before have we, for example, imported as much timber as we do now, while Norway is growing again at the same time – think about it! Never before have we imported as much food grain as we now have. But this may not be so strange when the food soil is being built up, while there is no desire for new cultivation — or innovation — in agriculture. If you want to grow more than 15 goals a year, there is a comprehensive application process and regulations that are needed, which many people simply don't care about. Norway has many natural advantages: oil, fish, mining opportunities, forest, soil, gas, etc. We have good technology, and we have a lot of people who want to contribute more than you can expect. At the same time, competition from low-cost countries is alarming. It must be more ok to succeed for the Norwegian entrepreneurs, while it must be allowed to fail – at least one has tried. Maybe you succeed next time, or someone else takes the idea and succeeds – what do I know? The progress party believes it must be allowed to cheer on those who become masters, even in business. Some become so-called capitalists. There will be jobs, positive ring-fences and money to the state fund, which will benefit others again. Competition in business is good. It's healthy, and it creates development. To believe that you have the best result or the best service is not a permanent condition. It has to be for development and new thoughts all the time. What is important is to give opportunities and space to all enterprises, regardless of size — large and small. This is also important. that they cannot have the same legislation. I am thinking about reporting, etc. Small companies do not have the same possibilities as the large ones, the resources are too different. There has to be a difference between the requirements if you have a few employees, and if you have maybe hundreds. We have to realize that Norway has probably lost the fight for volume in some areas due to too high a salary level. But we can win the battle for technology, and we have also partly won it. That's why we need a better school, where it must be allowed to be nice – not only nice, but perhaps also nicest. I record that the government parties boast that they have created 330,000 new jobs. I agree that 330,000 jobs are excellent. But I think many of these have not been created because of the red-green government, but despite the red-green government. We hear the members of the government parties boast that they have reduced the capital requirement by AS formation and reduced the audit requirements. This is good, but both measures were proposals from the Progress Party, which was first voted down in Stortinget to become a reality of the majority. The state must be a co-player – not a competitor or opponent, as many feel it is, precisely because of, among other things. taxes, taxes and public intervention. I can mention two of these on the go: the property tax, especially on working capital and the inheritance tax. So I'd like to say a little bit about the mining industry. Here, Norway has unique and unparalleled opportunities for both wealth and jobs, and for this purpose has a positive ringing effect on districts. We have been called for and promised a mineral message that will look at the possibilities of using all these values, but no message has come so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1071	In the opinion of the Right, business policy is to facilitate more growth and competitiveness for Norwegian enterprises. It's a little special that, on days like this, we mostly get involved in – from all parties – talking about Right Policy. I very much appreciate that people are interested in Right Business Policy, but I think you should have read a little better about the facts before you go to attack, but that's it. It's got to be choices others make. Due to the high level of Norwegian costs, Norwegian companies rely on the best efficiency, technology, innovation and research to compete in international competition. Seafood is, to the highest degree, such an industry. The fishing fleet competes to be the most effective at the fishing stage measured against competitors from, among others. Russia, Iceland, Faeroe Islands and the EU. They compete for a well-paying fleet in the maritime sector, a maritime sector that is constantly increasing its capacity, which is present in almost all seas, and which, because of the profitability of the oil industry, can refer to an economy with the power to develop new fleets. In this competition, the job of industrial policy is to provide the fishing fleet with long-term framework conditions both economically and within the legal industry. Tax regimes, business research resources and industry legal certainty are factors that have affected the right in this field in the past. There are factors right-thinking that are important. Whitefish industry competes against products and producers from low-priced countries around the world. Here, a market-adjusted raw material price will be absolutely essential in the years to come. The traditional markets are struggling with the ability to pay, and that, combined with record stocks, tells only one thing: the price must be adjusted to market conditions. The plus side of this scenario is that at a lower raw material price, we have to expect new markets for the world's best raw material to be established. In this image, the economic environment and the ability of companies to develop new technologies will determine whether we are competing. The right-hand removal of cyclically-blind taxes and taxes, as well as our strong commitment to business research funds, are the right tools for such development. The aquaculture industry has been shown to be both competitive and market-adapted over several years. Strong growth in production, new markets, product development, the ability to develop new technologies and the improvement of fish health in production make aquaculture a flagship in the marine food industry. Nevertheless, this is an industry that depends on good conditions to grow further. Complicated concessional processes in which much of the energy and effort is diverted into the judicial system do not point forward. The attempt now to use the concession system for a development in a more environmentally friendly direction is in the Right's view very good, but the scheme seems to have ended up with a new beauty contest, where the outcome is not safe at all – and the path to the legal system unfortunately does not have to be long. The industry has, in the Right's view, earned a much more clear process than it has been able to add up to now. Environmental requirements should be able to preside over concession calls, not believe that they can take the form of glossy paper and pious promises. Fuzzy policies are not what businesses need when markets are struggling. More than ever, predictability and competitive conditions are needed. So to the ownership constraints. After a long harvest, in which the representatives of the government parties have struggled to criticise the programme process in the Right, with the statement that the Right will only have one owner in the field of aquaculture, it turns out that fundamentalism has been adopted. The right has argued that there must be competitive considerations governing the degree of ownership within the industry, not just an imaginary percentage used to mark policy changes. Today's press release from the Council of State shows that the Council of State is thinking new, and that the positionists who are more concerned with painting scares of the Right than thinking about industrial policy appear to be small and unproductive. We in the Right are not sceptical about the press release that came from the Council of State today. We see that it could be a step in the right direction. We're waiting for the hearing note with excitement. We believe that there must be room for both large and small. Finally, I want to take a round of delivery obligations. It becomes very special – at the limit of dishonesty – that when the Right has made proposals in the Storting to change the delivery obligations so that one can comply with the purpose paragraph of the regulation, one is today accused by the Council of State in order to remove the delivery obligations. I ask the Council of State to explain to me how our proposal that the coastal fleet can fish part of these resources will mean that we get less fish on land along the Finnmark coast. It's a rebus race I don't solve myself. Green concessions are a good solution, and I note that the Council of State believes we are against them. We haven't said we're against it. We honestly believe that the requirements for green concessions must be clear before going into a beauty contest for the award of concessions. We have the previous concession award refreshed in memory. We didn't think it came out lucky – and I think that the Council of State doesn't mean it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1099	I always have great expectations when going to a debate in Stortinget, but today I had no particularly high expectations for the debate. For what would the High Representative Svein Fleet say about what was the main act in their budget? What would Harald T. Nesvik of the Progress Party say about the major changes in their budget? I listened with interest to the representative Svein Flätten – and what was he saying? Nothing. The representative of Svein Flätten said nothing about the biggest change made in the budget of the Economic and Social Committee on agriculture. It is surprising that when attacking the two main pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy, customs protection and budgetary policy, the Højres main figure in this debate does not use one word to explain why it is felt that there should be a more offensive food industry in Norway, when one point, at customs, does not want to introduce a percentage duty, when that is the whole industry's demand. You don't mention it. In the case of the second pillar, which is budget support, you cut a billion and a half, but choose not to say a word in the main post about why you think it's right. Harald T. Nesvik of the Progress Party actually said a few words about agriculture. But the only words the main figure of the Progress Party used on Norwegian agriculture were that Norwegian agriculture is a major problem for Norwegian fishing industry. What is the message of reaching one of the largest and most important industries in the country — Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry? The progress party has cut approx. 5.5 B.C.E. in addition to the desire to reduce customs protection. Farming in Norway would not be profitable. The Right and Advance Party will, is to tear down a fantastic nourishment with approx. 50 000 people employed in agriculture, with around 40 000 employees in the country-based food industry – and it is around Norway. In the six months I've been Minister of Agriculture, I've traveled a lot around. I have e.g. have been a lot in North Norway. Only in North Norway there are 7,600 employees in these industries, with significant ring-effects. Then I was in the Mathallen here in Oslo – someone has read about it in the newspaper. There I distributed the Norwegian speciality mark to e.g. Lofotlam. This is a product of having an agriculture around the whole of Norway that creates the unique tastes. I've been to Sogn and Fjordane and I've been looking at the production of morals there, with a significant growth. I've been looking at the milk production in Hordaland, and I've also looked at the local cheeses there. I've been to Rogaland and I've run past the new dairies, which have an investment of half a billion dollars, with new value creation. I've been to Eastfold, where there are 2,400 people employed only in primary agriculture, and I've been to Hærland slaughterhouse, where you have to invest about 600 million. kr in inner Eastfold, with 500 employees in one facility. To the representative of Bredvold: I have, of course, been in Hedmark and seen how heavy that industry is and has been, for example. on Nortura at Rudhögda, which with 500 employees and a turnover of several billion kroner is Hedmark's largest enterprise. The reason why we're now introducing percentages is that we saw that a lot of that food and many of the companies were threatened, because at some point it'll be more profitable for the food chains to import large volumes instead of using Norwegian volumes. In the case of oysters, the cheeses we in practice protect, Synnøve Finden, Jarlsberg and Norvegia. The cheeses take between 40 and 50 pst. of Norwegian milk volume. If it had not been profitable in that production, the whole milk production could in principle be shut down throughout the West and throughout Northern Norway. The government couldn't stand there and look at it, so we stood up for this right here. I am surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party, when attacked by these main pillars, do not explain why, how they want agriculture to develop and how they believe it to be profitable. In many parts of Norwegian agriculture it is not possible to obtain profitability, because we are a steep, cold and wet country. Farming in Norway is quite different from farming in Denmark or France, and it is therefore the view of the Norwegian Government that we should stand up for Norwegian farmers, for Norwegian interests and for Norwegian food workers, not for Danish farmers and Danish food workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1115	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1118	We've recorded that the border trade this year is going to increase and most likely exceed 12 billion. kr. 12 B.C.E. kr is – also based on the number of the SSB – the same as 12 000 jobs. Yesterday, NTB sent the following message: ‘Norway has Europe’s highest food prices’. Norway is the most expensive food country in Europe, with a food price of 64 pst. above the EU average. It is the SCB – the Swedish Statistical Central Agency – that has collected these figures here. Border trade is increasing, and we also see that the food industry today lacks raw materials to do what they need to do to give customers what they want. So my question is whether the Council of State is satisfied that government's policy is actually increasing border trade, while you don't have enough raw materials yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1127	Norway also has, of course, among Europe’s highest housing prices, among Europe’s highest wages and car prices – we are at the highest in many areas. Nevertheless, as a population, we spend almost the least of our income on food. As long as things go so well in Norway, as long as the Norwegian economy has such a speed, it will always be a form of border trade. There is border trade between Norway and Sweden, there is border trade between Sweden and Denmark, there is border trade between Denmark and Germany, and there is border trade between Germany and Poland. It has to do with salary levels and cost levels in different countries. But if we are to be able to have a Norwegian raw material-based industry, we have to do so, among other things. use customs duties for the purpose of maintaining production in Norway. That's why we've done this, because we think it's a goal to be able to produce food for our own people. It has a price, and that price is the government willing to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1132	I am recording that the Council of State does not answer the question I am asking, possibly because he does not have an answer. I'll keep going on with another thing. I was on a debate and a talk with the minister at the NHO last week, several from the nutrition committee were there too. There the council said that they had cut the ditch grant in the farm settlement this year, which he was against, but he was told from the Farm that they wanted it that way. When the Farmer said that, it was like that in the settlement. Then you can ask who is in charge of agricultural policy in this country – whether it is the Farming Team or the Government. One of my questions is whether the Council of State is in favour of that opinion. It also turned out that KIWI couldn't run the beef campaign because you didn't have enough raw material. That is why I ask: the Minister is pleased that the Farmers are in charge, but what about the food industry, which today does not get enough raw material because of the government's misguided policy – when will the Minister think about them and not just the Farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1141	In terms of the percentage change that has been made, there was a common pressure from NHO Food and Agriculture, the NNN – that is LO – and the Farming Team, so there were many who were concerned about that change. As far as I'm concerned about funeral grants, I personally wasn't a big fan of the 100 million that comes into the budget now, it's quite right – I stand for that. But my point is that in Norway we have a unique, close and good cooperation between the state and the industry through the Agricultural Agreement Institute. My assessment is that those who are in the industry can often assess things as well as we are public authorities. I know that the Progress Party wants to abolish the Agricultural Agreement Institute, but this government wants to have it, precisely because we want strong trade unions that can have an impact on policy. If you're going to have real dialogue, make real recordings, you can't always give priority to what you think is most important, you also have to listen to what the industry thinks is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1148	Lerum in Sogn and Fjordane is a family-owned company that produces juice – good, tasty juice based on Norwegian raw materials. The juice is sold throughout the country and is a great example of how natural Norwegian products can gain market shares. However, the government has increased the levy, leading to a high tax burden on Lerum’s products, which, after all, is based on Norwegian fruit and berries. In Sogn Avis yesterday, 11/12, the director of Lerum says that he knows a need to be told what the Central Party really thinks about this fee. In the alternative budget of the Right, we halve the levy. What does the government want, and what does the Centerparte want to do with the juice tax so that it won't be a problem for the farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1155	As the representative knows, the Central Party is behind the draft budget presented by the government, both the tax and tax regime, the percentage duty and other types of grip – including the changes mentioned by the representative Røbekk Nørve. That's part of the whole thing. There are always different considerations to balance, also in terms of public health and other things. We believe that the whole of the budget is good, and that the whole of the tax system is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1160	The operational review of the accounts of Norwegian farmers — carried out by the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, NILF — shows that farmers averaged almost NOK 5000 in income last year and that the average bond had less than DKK 120 per hour, i.e. less than the minimum wage. After the agricultural settlement for 2010, the parties said that the framework would provide a basis for an income increase of approximately NOK 11 500 per year in 2011. Now we see that the results show a decrease of almost NOK 5000. When we know that income is the most important factor in increasing recruitment and preventing industrial decline, I would like to ask: How will the Minister of Agriculture ensure that the income gap between farmers and comparable groups decreases, and not – which is now – just increasing and increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1165	As Andersen Eide knows well, farmers are self-employed. What is done through the Agricultural Contracts Institute is to make a possibility of income visible. Agriculture is very weather-dependent. I am grain farmers myself, and know that I had much worse crops last year, because. bad weather, than I had this year, because. Better be. Hopefully I'll get even a little better crops next year, because then I'm even more competent and the weather is even nicer. One of the main challenges — when we look at the operational reviews — is that it was especially in the grain economy that it was very depressed. It was a particularly bad grain year last year. We can't look at one year's operational reviews, we have to look over time at the tools we've put in. If you don't have to adjust them and have new offensive bets. It's not easy to just measure, for example. the grain economy, as I know it, based on the annual impact. We need to see the impact over several years to see if it gives us a better development. The development of the spring was particularly poor in cereals, but it was largely due to the weather.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1172	The predecessors of the state councils were well-priced. From Stortinget's pulpit he said that the government would phase out export subsidies on Jarlsbergost. In Report. [[2012-2013]] St. 1 ‘In the field of agriculture, the negotiating mandate requires a new WTO agreement to lead to a significant reduction in trade distorting aid, the liquidation of export subsidies and significantly improved market access.’ It may seem that the new Minister of Agriculture has not got this right. Now we're both going to have a world record of high customs on cheese into the country, and we're going to spend over 100 million dollars. kr to dump cheap cheese abroad. Does the Council of State feel that this is solidarity and forward-looking, and in line with the agreement we entered into in Doha in 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1182	There are some premises on the question that I do not agree with. That we dump cheap cheese abroad is not right. We export a high-quality, great product called Jarlsbergost, which is produced in Elnesvågen, and which gives 67 employees jobs, I have been told. The main export is to the US market – it is a high-cost market. When you hear the word ‘export subsidies’, you often think that you both dump it in some low-cost country and shut down local agriculture. There is no discussion as regards Jarlsbergost. It's about an export product to a high-cost country, and it's a high-cost product. The government's position is that the aim is to phase out export subsidies in the long term, but this must be done in a comprehensive debate on future agricultural policy. We want to safeguard Norwegian interests in a forthcoming WTO round, and then we will not negotiate on individual elements until we see the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1190	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1193	Norway has a proud maritime tradition and history. The sea is very close to us. It is hardly a coincidence that we have become so good at building boats, and that through shipping we have connected ourselves to the international market. However, maritime industry is exposed to competition and needs an active industrial policy based on predictability and competitive framework conditions. After a time of civil chaos, the Bondevik government in 2004 tried to turn the course and make the big message Want to grow. But what came out of it? The ships were on their way out of the country, but they did not have a competitive shipping tax scheme. The right parties talked about maritime education, but there was no action. They said they would strengthen the conditions of competition for the Norwegian flag, but we were red-green who put in place the net pay scheme that is today. The Bondevik government proposed to open the traffic control, but didn't do anything about it. Even Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Ansgar Gabrielsen said that the toolbox was empty. The Stoltenberg government took over in 2005 and came up with its own maritime strategy in 2007, which was called the ‘Big Course’. It contained a number of measures, including: base pillars such as the net pay scheme and the shipping tax scheme. We have provided a package of measures for shipyards and equipment suppliers, and we are doing well – we get positive feedback from the entire industry on a strong fleet renewal. In the last four years, the fleet has increased by 64 pst. and approaching 1 100 ships. It shows a good trend and shows that a negative trend has turned around. In the 2013 state budget, we clearly see the differences between the different parties in terms of the net pay scheme. Right and Christian People's Party cuts into the arrangement and justifies it by wanting a so-called model of competence. But what does it actually mean? On me, they seem pretty winged. In 2004, the Bondevik government introduced a competence model without a roof, i.e. without an upper limit of payment. It included both the so-called competence workstations in the NOR offshore fleet and the NIS and NOR certification posts. In the 2012 budget, the Right would have a ceiling of NOK 120 000 for the model of competence. Now they are going for a different model of competence, which only applies to certifying posts with a ceiling of NOK 198 000. The sailors shall be completely excluded from the scheme. Offshore vessels have previously been inside, with different roofs, while the Right now takes them out completely. It's playing pingpong with competence jobs in the maritime industry. Such unforeseeability does not provide for safety, predictability or competitiveness for seafarers. Recruitment must be made on a broader basis if we are to maintain all the steps of the seafarers' career ladder. While the Christian People's Party locks the ceiling on the entry of the top tax, the Right will reduce the max. to 120 000 kroner, the Left will remove the entire scheme and the Progress Party will legislate the scheme. That suggests that the bourgeois chaos just keeps going.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1204	Today’s debate has focused in various ways on how to further develop business in Norway. Norwegian enterprises claim well abroad despite a high cost level. This shows that they have good productivity. Much of this productivity growth takes place through the use of ICT. Some studies have shown that over time half of the productivity growth in Europe has come through the use of ICT. An analysis in nine countries shows that 21 p.m. GDP growth comes from ICT and the Internet. This will continue, but it does not happen by itself. The state has an important role to play in facilitating. We want to encourage Norway as a society to take advantage of the opportunities offered by ICT and the Internet for value creation and innovation. The banks, the record stores and the travel agencies are well on their way through what I would call a revolution. Elsewhere we've just begun to see evolution. The health and care sector is reformed using new technologies. The government helps to digitise business processes and make them cheaper for everyone by using e-commerce solutions and e-invoice solutions. The agricultural industry is one of the most technology-intensive. The Government’s digitisation programme shows how to digitise the public sector. Altin is an important tool for business. EDAY will contribute to new simplifications. The ICT sector is an important contributor to value creation and employment in Norway. In 2010, the 200-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. SEK, 74 000 persons That's 50 pst. more than in the rest of the mainland economy. Evolution has been very positive. The number of persons employed in the ICT sector increased by 8 pst. from 2007 to 2010. It is much higher than the growth of the general economy. During the same period, the number of persons employed in mainland Norway increased by 2.4 pst. This is a development I think we should applaud and value in discussions about future industries in Norway. The public sector is a major buyer. In order for us to have good solutions in the future, it is important that we get more innovation in the sector. That is why we are going to present a strategy on innovation in public acquisitions. We also follow up by reviewing public procurement legislation to see if we can simplify and improve it. Just over the New Year, I am going to present changes to the Competition Act, which will also be an important contribution to making business easier to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1217	The government's economic policy has produced amazing results, as has been said many times here today. Norway is doing well – workplaces are being created. In the first half of 2012, around 20,000 new limited liability companies were set up in Norway – a huge amount – since 2005 it has been created approx. 340 000 new jobs, and so far we have simplified for 3 billion. kr. There is a historically high framework for the adoption of GIEK, new climate fund and new seed funds, as well as packages of measures both for the yard and the supplier industry and for the wood processing industry. In addition, SIVA and Innovation Norway are rigged for larger projects – this to mention something when it comes to our land-based industry. In October 2012, Norway was garnered by the World Bank for the sixth best country to run business. The number of enterprises that grow and make good money increases in 2011 by almost 50 pst. - 50 percent! And this happens at a time when large parts of Europe experience stagnation and mass unemployment. I am also very pleased that employment in mines and industry is at about the same level as it was before the financial crisis. Recently we could read that Enova had supported two new major energy saving projects. Elkem Salten alone shall invest for 350 million. kr, and Elkem Carbon Fiskaa is allocated SEK 39 million. kr for energy saving. To put this in perspective, Elkem Salten will provide energy savings corresponding to the electricity consumption of about 12,000 residential buildings. But it dominates all industries and all enterprises in general and the export industry in particular is order in the economy, a stable dollar rate and an interest rate that does not shoot in the weather. Stable frame conditions are and will be a keyword. What is dangerous in today's alliance is that the Progress Party will not bow to the rule of action, and the Right is also here in the Fog Home. So it's a surprise package after the election: if the right-wing party wins, what happens to economic policy? It is important that we do not have strange taxes and taxes that hit the bones of businesses, but on the other hand, it is a fact that the fact that we have triggered the companies, preferably both whip and carrot, has caused them to become world leaders in innovation, competence and technology development. A proper balance is very important here. The government has taken a number of measures to improve industry’s power conditions, including the construction of new power, planned network investments and the maintenance of a good power balance. This shows the power of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1237	I see in the statement that the Christian People's Party and the Right will continue to replace the net pay system for seafarers with a model of competence, or a model only for 'certificated', as the Christian People's Party calls it. From before, we know that the Left will also rage over the net pay scheme. The left's response in the line exchange here today was nothing less than a sensational reminder of a lack of knowledge about this industry. I think it's very sad that these three open-eyed parties are once again trying to risk seafarers' jobs, and I understand that many seafarers today have been guests up in the gallery. They feel their jobs threatened. It may seem that these three parties will have Norwegian shipping, but if Norwegian ships are manned by skilled Norwegian seafarers, it seems to be of minor importance to them. Why am I saying this? Yes, because over 90 pst. by those who become officers on deck and in machinery today come from subordinate positions on board. This means that there will be a very poor recruitment basis for officer training if we get rid of the subordinate teams, as the Right Party, Christian People's Party and Left agree. I've said it before, and I'm repeating it now: we can't recruit skilled marine officers when they have to simulate themselves to become an officer. The explanation that Norwegian seafarers are among the best is that they have been given the opportunity to embark, and that a job on board has laid the foundation for a further maritime career. I remember that when the government took over in 2005, the maritime industry had lived through a long time with constant changes to the framework conditions and a highly unpredictable shipping policy. This corrected this government immediately, which in turn has given predictability, recruitment and belief in the industry. I hope the shipowners, the suppliers, the approx. The 11,000 seafarers covered by the net pay scheme and everyone else notes that the Right, Christian People's Party and Left again call for the weakening of Norway as a shipping nation. The right, Christian People's Party and Left should consider that absolutely all municipalities in Norway have residents working in or connected to the maritime industries, and therefore this important industry has major ring-effects in all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1252	In the change of lines between the state council Trond Giske and Svein Braidt earlier today, the representative fleeted to regret that the government boasts amazing results for Norwegian business because there has never been any better chance of success than now. I couldn't have said it better myself! There has never been a better chance of success in Norwegian business than now. In the evening post earlier in the autumn 2011 was referred to as a jubilee for Norwegian companies. The number of growing businesses is growing healthy, they make good money, and they grew by almost 50 pst. last year. We have had a formidable growth in exports, even outside the petroleum sector. It seems to me that both the position and the opposition are able to rejoice, but the striking thing in this debate is that it seems that the opposition believes that these are results that make itself, that it is obvious that we have good, predictable framework conditions, that it is obvious that we have clear practice of the rule of action, which gives confidence in the financial markets, that the use of money is under control, so that we have a level of interest, a rate of krone, which ensures the competitiveness of the Norwegian export industry, that we have a predictable tax policy – that there is at all an economic policy that supports economic development and value creation. And I have to say that several of the debates we have had with the opposition on economic policy during the fall have made me worried. The Progress Party has launched an alternative action rule that means that there is no limit – no limit – to how much oil money can be used, as long as the use of money is defined as investment. The growth in consumption should remain the same, but the rate of investment should be strongly increased. There are several things to say to it: firstly, it is a major misunderstanding that the level of public investment in Norway is low. On the contrary, it's much higher than our neighbors. And the result is – no matter what the Progress Party says – an increase in the use of oil money, and that is the last Norwegian export industry needed. These are not surprising tones from the Progress Party, but I am deeply concerned that the Right does not clearly inform me that the rule of action is firm, and that it is not appropriate to experiment with the use of oil money. The second major concern is about fiscal policy. It has been interesting to follow the opposition through the debates we have had on property taxes. It started with violent illiteracy descriptions and thoughts that the removal of property taxes should eliminate any economic and agricultural problems, and then until the Political Quarter today, which left us all in complete confusion as to what the opposition really thinks about the wealth tax. Norwegian businesses should avoid the uncertainty that the opposition is now opening up in terms of both future oil money use and, in particular, the type of tax regime applicable to future shareholders. It is timely to ask for clarification before the election, but I expect it will not – even today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1267	There are several aspects of the industrial policy debate that have taken place today that make us wonder about the opposition's position. But there is one aspect that is clear and very clear, and it is the dramatic cuts that are proposed from the Right, but in particular from the Progress Party in terms of support for the agricultural agreement. I must say with all due respect that for many nutritionists linked to primary industries around the whole country, this is a dramatic proposal. And the closer we come to a choice, the more interesting it is to hear from the opposition – in particular from the Progress Party – what the alternative to the policy now being pursued is to the Norwegian farmer. Only in my own country are around 14 000 people linked to primary industries at some level, either directly in agriculture and forestry, in processing or in administration for that matter. These 14 000 jobs only in Hedmark are literally hanging in a thin thread when we see the alternative budgets, with the dramatic cut as, among other things, The Progress Party proposes in the agricultural agreement of over 5 billion. kr. If it were calculated by distribution across the whole country, it would mean a bottling of the heath farm by over 300 million. kr, which would have fatal consequences for both employment and housing and for all the other benefits we have of people having the opportunity to do business even in the vicinity of the country where it has not necessarily been that easy. I want to challenge in particular the Advance Party to make the cards visible: what is the alternative to such a dramatic cut? I read so that the eye becomes large and wet about the conversion support. What is to be converted into when the agricultural agreement is as dramatic as the Progress Party proposes? These are jobs that we've been working for many years to strengthen, whether it's the farmer's activity out on the ground or it's on Nortura, Rudhögda or Trysil, where we're processing our forest in both small and large farms. I hear you're talking about the alternative is that you have to let the farmer go. I cannot interpret the draft budget of the Progress Party as anything other than that it is not to release the farmer, but to a large extent to let him float in a free fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1274	In October 2012, Norway was nominated by the World Bank of the world’s sixth best country to operate. Although several industrial enterprises now notice international economic fluctuations, over several years, Norwegian industry has continued to strengthen itself in the face of an international crisis. The number of enterprises growing and earning good money increased in 2011 by almost 50 pst. That Norwegian business is going well and the optimism comes most places, does not come of itself. It is the result of a long-term, active and targeted policy, in which we have focused on good framework conditions for industry and business, the development of trade, education and research, and not least we have laid the foundations of safe economic governance. One of the important reasons for Norway’s success is that many are at work. At a time when many parts of Europe experience stagnation and mass unemployment, Norway, through a strong petroleum sector, safe economic governance and policy choices, has a record of work to do. Through work and innovation, workers and business leaders make Norway go well, and together we create the values that guarantee the welfare of the future. So far, over 16 000 new limited liability companies have started in Norway, an increase of 76 pst. from the previous year. Since 2005, some 340,000 more have been on the job — two out of three in the private sector. While many millions are unemployed in Europe, Norway now has lower unemployment rates than in 2005. This image is in stark contrast to the scary image that the right parties are trying to paint about Norwegian business and competitiveness. A good policy-driven management of the oil and gas industry in Norway has given us great opportunities as a country. Throughout the industry’s history, the working party has been concerned that the industry will generate returns in terms of activity on land. The petroleum industry provides us with a surplus that we can use to ensure the well-being of future generations, and to ensure that joint tasks are solved by the community. Today it is approx. 250000 jobs directly or indirectly linked to the petroleum industry. Petroleum resources on Norwegian soil have provided the basis for a highly competent and internationally competitive oil and gas industry. Major expansion projects have driven new technological solutions. The favourable framework conditions for research and technological development have been an important prerequisite, as have the emphasis on health, the environment and safety and well-organised wage and working conditions. The working party is dedicated to continuing to develop Norwegian offshore and maritime industry, so that we can build on the impressive story we have experienced. The Labour Party will contribute to the good and stable development of Norwegian business and ensure that important enterprises, competences and natural resources are maintained and further developed in Norway. The state has large holdings in Norwegian business. This is more important than ever to ensure just stability and Norwegian ownership of enterprises that are strategically important for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1285	Little fact as a background for my points: Norway is going to laugh too soon. Employment and value added are record high – 330,000 new jobs since 2005. Other economic measurement parameters, such as GDP growth and trade balance, show marked positive developments. So there's every reason to be happy – and everyone is happy. But the right is easy to rejoice. First, the government's research fails, and it failed in a real growth of 32 pst. since I took over. Hardly any other sector has experienced the appearance of real growth. Yesterday we heard that there were the school results one down, despite the fact that all the good indicators point to good development, but then there was also a solid stomach space for the Right yesterday. In the meantime, the Right is turning around with a great deal of security about the lack of innovation in Norwegian business. The best thing to say about it is that it confirms the experience that sloping certainty is inversely proportional with insight. On the right, the Innovation Union Scoreboard is constantly referred to, where Norway sits in a small 17th place of 34 countries. But right jumps gallantly over e.g. World Competitiveness Scoreboard, where Norway has a pen 8th place of a total of 59 countries with a weight of much more and more relevant indicators. I can briefly also mention the German innovation indicator, where Norway has moved from a 14th place in 1995 to a 7th place in 2010, much precisely because of direct and indirect support for R & D in business, to productivity and better framework conditions for innovation. In the Research Council’s latest report on the state of the Norwegian research and innovation system, it is established: ‘Norway is often said to be poor in international rankings of innovation capabilities. It is a truth with great modifications.» And on the other hand, ‘But the analysis of Norwegian innovation capability should certainly be based on a more nuanced basis than our overall position in different scoreboards.’ In the presentation of the last research barometer, the term ‘high pressure’ was used to describe the situation of publicly funded research, where Norway, as is well known, is at the top, while ‘low pressure’ was used to describe the situation in industry. It's a fact that Norway in international comparisons is going to get worse in the business world, but it's wrong to say that there's a lack of interest in research in the business world. It's essentially an expression of the type of industries we have, and the size of the businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1308	It is quite common to send greetings from this pulpit, but this time I intend to take a greeting from home to this hall. This post might as well have been a recording of case no. 5, but I choose to take it from the pulpit on the occasion of this debate. This is about the lack of air services in the north, and especially in my home country. When the airlines planned this year's winter route offer to Finnmark, we received a strongly reduced offer. Especially challenging is the fact that SAS has chosen to cut out its direct routes to Finnmark in the afternoon and evening. As a substitute, SAS and Norwegian choose to fly wings against wings in the morning. Many feel frustrated by the lack of willingness of companies to provide routes that satisfy their needs. For both business and private customers, this leads to increased costs of extra overnight stays and more expensive ticket prices. That's the way the market works. Reduced capacity and high demand allow companies to take the prices they want. We have today a price level of some routes that we need many years back to figure out. Such a development does not create any more activity — rather, on the contrary. Several have also stated that they feel that it is bad that the companies do not care more about loyal customers in the north, and that they do not see that this leads to a deterioration in the longer term. It's not hard to agree with them. The business community notes what is now happening on its bottom lines, and particularly strongly affects the hotel and conference markets. Now, of course, we love Tromsø well, but it is vital that Finnmark participates more fully in the positive developments we see, among other things. in winter tourism. Travel destinations in Finland are hit hard by the reduced winter offer from SAS and Norwegian. Both business representatives and politicians at all levels have criticised the choices made by airlines. They've been invited to dialogue, but so far without results. The airlines strongly claim that the route schedule is closely linked to the market base, but many doubt it. From this pulpit, I would urge the state that owns to take with it the concerns and not least the consequences of a reduced route offer in the north for both business and other travellers. I am fully aware that, as politicians, we should have an arm's length distance from what is going on in different boardrooms where the state has interests. But I also have very clear expectations that the state representatives on the board of directors of – in this case – SAS must also be able to represent the customers of the airlines in the north. For this reason, the population and business in Finnmark have great hopes that they will receive a better flight offer when planning the next year’s winter route.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1322	The maritime industry is one of Norway's most important sources of wealth creation and well-being. Norway has a strong global impact on competence and innovation. This is thoroughly documented, among others. through the research project A knowledge-based Norway, Reve and Sasson 2012. No other industry has greater competence-based value creation than the maritime industry. Maritime industry has added about 100,000, with a turnover of about 1 billion. kr per day, and she has a value creation corresponding to approx. 125 B.C.E. kr per year. The industry's world-leading position brings great income to society, creates jobs and provides ground for scattered settlement throughout the country, especially along the coast. In Norway, a unique maritime cluster is built. In this maritime cluster, it's very much so that everything is related to everything. Through the maritime strategy ‘Supporting course’, the authorities have laid a significant foundation for the value creation we have seen in this industry in recent years. A commitment to industry’s success has been and will continue to be stable, far-reaching and internationally competitive framework conditions. Norwegian seafarers and access to maritime practical experience are an important explanation of Norwegian maritime success. This has been documented in a number of research projects and has recently been elaborated and elaborated in Fafo’s report from sea to land. The report states that adding experience from the sea is of great importance for innovation and innovation in land-based activities as well. Subordinate crew competence is as important and attractive as the knowledge of the officers. The net pay system for seafarers is therefore a necessary and, not least, profitable investment in maritime competence. It is with great wonder that I read the setting and record that the Right and Christian People's Party will replace this scheme with a so-called model of competence that only the officers get net pay. The left goes even further, they will abolish the whole system. When one then knows to approximate 90 pst. by those who are currently on board, come from subordinate settings on deck and in machinery, wonder even greater. It's just these people's fleeting demand. The sailors themselves are the hub of the maritime cluster. For this reason, the net pay arrangements must be maintained and made even better. The net pay arrangements for Norwegian seafarers should, in my opinion, be fully in line with the arrangements for our competitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1348	Today we have seen and seen that some seafarers and representatives of maritime organisations are present at the gallery to follow the debate on their future and the framework conditions for industry. After reading the position, the Christian People's Party and the Right are asked to replace the net pay scheme with a competence model. The left will, as we know, rage the system. When we took over in 2005, we took over an unforeseeable chaos in maritime policy. The government decided to create its own strategy for maritime policy, including: the shipping tax scheme and the maritime subsidy scheme were important actions together with a number of other actions in this area. Today we have predictability and stable framework conditions for industry. I am very pleased that the government and the Red-Greens on the Storting have agreed that the net pay system should be continued. There are also many positive feedback from the whole industry. We deliver – in this area as in so many other areas – and you should notice that. The government's active maritime policy works well. A stable framework for this industry is important and cannot be repeated enough. With any government change, the industry will have different framework conditions than it currently has. For this reason, the 2013 decision to increase will be extremely important – including for this industry. There will also be other conditions here that will weaken industry and the nation of Norway. The explanation that Norwegian seafarers are among the very best in the world is that they have been given the opportunity to embark, and that a job on board has provided the basis for the maritime career. That's important, and that's a value we have to take with us. Finally, another matter. This is the rental contract for the premises of the Brønnøsund Registers. It will expire in a few years and work is under way to address future local needs. That's why we're very happy that it's going to be 20 million. kr to State Building for investigation and preliminary project in the 2013 budget. There is an incredibly large job in southern Greece, and it is important to develop this job now. So it was very welcome when the 20 million were granted by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1365	The amount was granted by Stortinget, as far as I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1368	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1373	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1376	I am very pleased that so many red-green politicians today have spoken out about shipping and its importance. At the same time, I need to talk about another important district industry alongside shipping, and that's agriculture. I regret the fact that a joint committee has referred to the great flood damage that was experienced in Troms and Buskerud, and I naturally know the case from Troms very well. I've been in Inner Troms and I've been looking at the massive destructions that happened there this summer. It's incredible, and you actually have to see it with your own eyes in order to think that it's possible with such destruction from forces of nature. I think it is tragic for the farmers who have been affected by this great disaster. Large soils are destroyed, crops have been lost, harvested feed has been destroyed and houses and utensils need extensive repairs. Something cannot be repaired, but needs to be replaced by a new one. Troms has a problem that no other counties have to the same degree. This is because there is a great deal of land renting here, and the rules on excess natural damage involve a fraction of the individual property that has been damaged and not of the total damage. This makes farmers particularly economically affected when natural forces do such damage. I find it difficult to understand how these farmers should be able to get back upstairs without exceptional financial help, especially when we know that the same farmers were strongly affected in 2010, as they suffered extensive crop damage due to unusual early frost. I am aware that some of this must be seen in relation to the agricultural agreement, but I would strongly recommend to the government to provide the necessary help as soon as possible in terms of the excesses. We have to do what is possible to ensure agriculture throughout the country. The agriculture in the inner Troms is one of the best things we have in the north, and it would be terrible if the farmers here were forced to give up because they were hit by a natural disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1389	Representative Arne L. The hau had in its introduction a visit to the excellent agricultural policy of the Christian People's Party, and that's nice. However, I was less pleased that the representative Haugen expressed doubts that we were standing by our policies in cooperation with other opposition parties in a non-socialist government. I can reassure the representative Haugen that, in cooperation with the Right and Left both in Bondevik I and Bondevik II, we agreed on all agricultural settlements, unlike what happened at the year's settlement. With regard to today's agricultural policy, the Christian People's Party could get a lot more if the government parties had been with us when the agricultural message was being treated. Had the Workers' Party listened more to the farmers and to the Christian People's Party, it had not been broken before the negotiations started. There are different policies in the different parties on the Stortinget, even on the non-socialist side, just as there are different policies in the different parties on the Stortinget of the Red-Greens. The election is in nine months. If you are part of the large majority who want a change of government and at the same time want a stronger policy in the field of agriculture, it is tempting to be very bold and say that this is easy: the Christian People's Party has the best agricultural policy and is the only option in the 2013 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1398	After almost 30 years as a gardener, I have gained both experience and thoughts about agricultural policy. But I have to admit that it's been a long time since I stopped being surprised by what the Progress Party can cook up from proposals that will dismantle a relatively functional agricultural policy. When the representative, Tåldal, published a report on what kind of medicine is common to Norwegian agriculture, I found that much of the basis for thousands of Norwegian communities will disappear with this. The basis for these communities will disappear. I don't say that communities will disappear, but a lot of the groundwork. According to Treldal, Norwegian gardeners are facing bureaucrats in the department. Well, after a long life, as I said, as a gardener, I can hardly say that I have seen any of these bureaucrats. But I have to admit that in this room I have heard many posts that many outside this room would call for direct customs chat. The representative of the Tjældal and the Progress Party will regulate production and agricultural policy on the market. Does the representative know what this will mean? Today, agricultural market regimes provide a level playing field for both rural agriculture and urban agriculture to the market in our largest cities. So the small farmer in our fjords and mountains with a very limited volume is given an equal right to set aside his production as the big farmer with a hard volume and a short distance to the market. But this will cancel the Progress Party. When, in the next sentence, Treldal is very concerned about rural agriculture, what he says is not consistent. There's a card and there's no way to get hold of it. The batch of progress will further twist supported from area to production. We recall that when agricultural support was, in its time, distorted from producing to production-neutral schemes, it was to gain control of overproduction and to adhere to international agreements such as the WTO Agreement. Now, if one looks at this in addition to these examples, the Progress Party and, in part, the Right, its other proposals in agricultural policy, such as the dramatic budget cuts, the abolition of the exemption from competition law for agricultural cooperation, the weakening of customs protection and the abolition of agricultural negotiations, this will result. All of this, in addition to the abolition of market mechanisms and the distortion of agricultural support from production neutral to production driving, will disassemble much of today's agricultural policy. But where is the Right in this debate? When should Right take a given with the Progress Party's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1411	The President would point out that 'customs' is not a parliamentary expression, nor is it 'customs talk'.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1414	With very much on my mind about agriculture in Norway, I unfortunately came too short in my first post. I ended with joint ventures that are struggling under today's government. ‘Red-green handlebar thins large bottoms;’;» could a read in Our Country on June 14th this year. It was Malvin Harnes and the daughter who got their frustration over the government's agricultural policy. The co-operation of Harnesmyr in the sea gap outside Molde – it's probably out in the district, I think – houses 60 cows today, and was on the list of the 50 best-performing farms per cow in 2011. The company is engaged in producing good Norwegian food efficiently, but is prevented by poor framework conditions for cooperatives versus minor uses. Grants are designed to provide the most support per litre of milk for the smallest uses. For example, all dairy farms receive an operating grant of NOK 111 000 either one has 5 cows or 100 cows. Harnes has calculated that their co-operation is going to cost SEK 1.20 in State subsidies per litre of milk, while a use of 14 cows is going to get NOK 3 per litre of milk. This is one of several examples of the distortion of state subsidies to agriculture and the need to become fairer and more targeted, as the Right says. I was so far within the calculations of the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Research, which shows that the Higher Agricultural Policy for the period 2009-2013 was expected to give approximately the same level of production as that of the Government Parties, and approximately equal to the district profile of the Centre Party. However, figures can be discussed, but given the result of NILF's 2009 note, I and Right believe that our alternative provides a better direction for Norwegian agriculture. The right has a real alternative to the government, and will work specifically in agricultural policy to strengthen the profitability and investment capacity of agriculture. Norwegian food and Norwegian farmers deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1425	For one who lives and works in a large and important fishing community, it is easy to associate with the descriptions of the importance of the fishing industry for the development of many coastal communities. However, there are no criteria for the fishing industry other than those for other industries as to what is to be done in order for the industry to contribute to a positive development, namely profitable enterprises, and then profitable enterprises throughout the value chain. The stated vision that Norway can become the world’s leading maritime food region is all reason to join. The vision is absolutely achievable, but it requires a policy that promotes – again – profitability throughout the value chain of the industry. I heard representatives earlier today who were on a demonstration train for or against something. Then it must not be such that demonstrating for or against necessary changes necessarily documents which policies are most forward-looking. In fact, it was about 1950. 150 000 fishermen who landed in the upper edge of three million tonnes of fish, and there are now about 150 000 fishermen. 10 000 fishermen who take up approximately the same quantity are concerned with technology development and structural changes that have been necessary to promote profitability in industry. When pointing to the fact that the outlook for exports to key markets for the fisheries industry is a challenge in the years to come, it may therefore be necessary to implement measures also for the season 2013, it is a challenge that these types of schemes, such as: guarantee schemes must also take account of changing market conditions. We did not deserve fish to be bought and then put in stock and then finally sold with loss. In this perspective, it is remarkable to hear that questions are asked about whether it is right to ask whether introduced laws and regulations should not be addressed and discussed in a future perspective, as advocated by the Right. In my view, such a discussion, based on the challenges of the future, is absolutely necessary in order for the fishing industry to contribute to a positive development in many coastal communities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1437	It was really the contribution of the representative of Bredvold who made me ask for the floor. Bredvold describes the inconsolable situation of a founder who is met with rules, suspicions and countermeasures from the public. In the real world, where I live, it's not like that. I have experienced this on the body, and experience a completely different situation. There is now a record of the number of incorporated companies. We have an instrument that works and supports. And a large number of municipalities distribute entrepreneurial prices and food prices to stimulate and reward entrepreneurs. Local media are following up. I believe that the public today well supports the founder. Then I have to say that the Storting is not promised any mineral message, which has been mentioned by others. The government has announced that it will come up with a strategy after the end of the year. There are several representatives who are now calling for this, and I am overly excited that many have become eager about the mineral industry, and that it obviously blows a wind for the mineral industry. It really hasn't done that before. Now comes this strategy, which is already in the budget, and I am convinced that it will be a good solution. So finally, a little detail, a note about agriculture and organic farming, about which we are concerned about supporting. There is a joint remark in the budget that points to the interesting work being done in Møre and Romesdal with a view to establishing Tingvoll Ecopark. I hope the government evaluates it positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1446	In the course of the debate, it must be noted that this debate has been very elucidating. If we ignore a real upsurge in agriculture, I can't see that the opposition has shown a holistic alternative to today's industrial policy. What the opposition relies on is a small kick in the government's industrial policy, not a holistic alternative. But even the small cracks that the opposition has on the government's industrial policy fall from each other when one starts to poke a little. Take, for example: what I was in my post, the criticism that we have not been offensive enough to help Alcoa in Finnmark. When we start to poke away in it, it turns out that the opposition party is strongly disagreeable about what's in this note. The progress team very much wanted us to have an Alcoa aluminium plant with gas power without CO2 cleaning – and I have had long discussions with the Progress Party in the media. But when I ask the Christian People's Party, they strongly oppose that we should get an aluminium plant with gas power plants without CO2 cleaning. Then that project would be totally unrealistic. It is an example that even when they criticize, the opposition falls from each other. The second example I was in is cluster collaboration. The opposition party goes high and says that the government party does not have the heart for cluster cooperation, and that the policy that has been so successful is an example of what the government party does not have the heart for. It's quite interesting that they have insight into our lungs and hearts, but it's pretty meaningless when one of the parties behind the criticism, even cuts drastically on support for cluster work. So here I have to say that what was supposed to be an alternative industrial policy, we haven't seen anything, and the criticism of the government's industrial policy falls from each other. The big glare number in the years I've been here, that removing the property tax would solve all the problems, is also about to fall from each other. As I said, the government has a business policy. The opposition has not shown that they have alternatives except for a little bit of small space falling from each other if one goes into them. So I just want to make a little comment on what the representative Arne Haugen also had to say. I'm a lot out talking to people in companies in Norway. Some of what I often hear is that they would not have been in the situation they are today, if they had not been helped by Innovation Norway. There are a lot of founders around the country who thank the public agency for being in the situation they are in. Those who come to such a conclusion and who are trying to make it look like Norway is a developing country when it comes to facilitating innovation and innovation, must be people who are little out there talking to innovators.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1467	I would like to begin by saying that the centre party is very concerned about the situation of the farmers in Troms and Buskerud who were hit by the flood this summer. I have also visited the affected farmers in Troms myself. The centre party is concerned that we should have a rapid process and robust arrangements, and we are committed to following up this situation. Then go to the state budget. When the government presented the state budget for 2013, agriculture could release the cheer. The centre party had won an important victory and gained a pass to introduce a percentage of six important toll lines. The proposed six customs lines represent products which are of particular importance for Norwegian agriculture and for the Norwegian food industry. If the government had not taken action now, agriculture would not have had the opportunity to increase its profitability in the future. If such a development had continued, fewer and fewer people would have opted for food production in Norway, and we would not have been able to increase food production as the population grew. There would be more relocated farms in the districts, fewer farmers to care for our beautiful cultural landscape, fewer jobs in the food industry and, not least, Norwegian safe, short-range food. But the cheer of the farmers' organizations, in the food industry and in farms around the district of Norway, with this customs code that the government has done, can quickly halt if the Right gets what they want. In fact, the right will reverse this customs procedure as soon as possible, which is being embraced by Norwegian farmers. In their own proposal for a State budget, they justify this with regard to the competitiveness of the consumer and food industries. That a removal of customs changes should benefit the food industry, we in the Center Party ask ourselves questions. After all, the food industry is just one of the actors who have been pressured to convert from a dollar to a percentage point, which will guarantee them predictable access to Norwegian raw materials. The peasant team has strongly warned against the consequences of the Right's proposal. It is therefore time for the Right to come forward and be honest with both agriculture and the food industry about what they want with Norwegian agriculture in the future. If it is the case that Right-wing wants managed closure of Norwegian agriculture, they must be so honest with the Norwegian people that they admit it. We also see what the Progress Party, which is the Right Marriage Partner, has proposed, and we see which way it is going. So it's this community of Christian People's Party that will go into, the party that, in its description of agriculture, shares the goal of the red-green, but that is willing to sacrifice agriculture for a blue-blue marriage with the Right and the Advance Party, and that is willing to give up the enhanced customs protection that the red-green parties have put in place. It must be allowed to demand an answer from the Christian People's Party and, not least, to demand that the Christian People's Party come out of the closet and say what they are actually thinking when they are going into government with the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1478	Mr Eide has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1481	I would like to have more time, but I would like to make a comment on previous articles, such as: to the representative of Arnesen. There should be no doubt: the maritime industry is extremely important for Norway – also for the Christian People's Party. It is therefore important to maintain the competence of seafarers, and the Christian People's Party therefore wants the reimbursement system to exist. We propose that the maximum refundable salary should be set at the point of entry for the top tax. The Christian People's Party believes that the total amount of grants can be reduced by introducing an amended model that respects the competence of Norwegian seafarers, when we know what it means for the entire maritime industry. There are also a number of other measures we can improve the conditions for the maritime industry. Strengthening training is necessary. There are huge gaps and challenges here. Strengthening education, changing the boundaries of the area, improving ports, removing fees, strengthening the planning capacity of the Coastal Works – yes, there are many tasks to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1488	I will return to the matter concerning the delivery conditions. I want to repeat what I have said many times in this room and elsewhere, that the right over a long time has tried to ride two horses at the same time in this matter. The Workers' Party has been criticised for having voted down the proposal for a review of universal service obligations. I would like to reject it here and now on the most definite point, because this proposal was annexed to the Minutes and did not vote. That means that this proposal lives on. The right is talking with two tongues in this case, and they have done so until I registered that the representative Svein Fletten quickly reduced the small positiveness that the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen showed when the government came out with what is at the hearing now: tightening the universal service. Since then it has been quiet. Then I have also recorded that the coastal fleet is now to take over parts of the universal service, being a supplement for these trawls, while the starting point was that it was these trawls that were to be a complement to the coastal fleet. So to the representative Nesvik – it may not be allowed to say ‘surmulating’ today, but it was allowed to say last week – who said in his main post that it is very bad in the fishing fleet. No, it doesn't. It's a new record year for the fishing fleet. The fishing fleet once again delivers a historic result. This is not something the Workers' Party invents, it's from the profitability study to the Fisheries Directorate. It is very positive that the fishing fleet can achieve such results. It also shows how important it is that the industry balances at the intersection of profit and environmental considerations. I would say that here we need solid administrative and research institutions – all this has been achieved through good political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1501	The President shall not interfere with the debate, but shall only draw attention to the fact that ‘Annexed to the Protocol’ does not mean giving any life to the proposal. It must be reviewed by representatives or the government in order to be brought to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1504	Thanks for that clarification, then I didn't spend any time on it! It is now the case that we are accused of being against the delivery obligations. It's actually not like that. But we've thought that the most important thing in this case is that you get on land raw material of appropriate quality. Times have changed, so that now there are actually a lot of people who believe that they are doing well in this kind of nutrition, and who say that the coastal fleet delivers raw material of appropriate quality – actually of the best quality. That's why we asked for an investigation into the possibility that these resources are subject to delivery obligations, maybe they could be fished by the coastal fleet instead. We thought that was constructive. It is probably not allowed to say ‘surmuling’ this week either, but we record that at least there are politicians outside this house who were angry at that time. So the property tax and the attacks on the Right. In these days, parts of the fishing industry are struggling with a falling market. This means buying raw materials, producing and storing them. So if these goods are in stock on 1 January, they will be valued, and the companies will have to pay property taxes on them. At the same time, today there are companies that must have a standstill, they cannot afford to buy more raw materials. So on 1 January, their facilities will be valued, and they will have to pay property taxes on the machines that are stationary. The big problem with taxes on wealth is that it is cyclical. Whether it goes well or it goes bad – it doesn't take tax considerations into account. So you have to pay that tax bill, regardless of whether you have earnings or not on the machines. That's the big problem. And that's the big problem for thousands of small businesses that have goods in stock, that's the big problem for thousands of companies that have machines that have to stay calm. That's why we from the Right believe that it's important to look at the property tax, and that's why we're clear that if we don't do that, we're going to have to look at the property tax here. So it's not that we've been unclear about these things, but hanging the wealth tax on the hundreds of richest in Norway to explain to the common people that you have to pay your taxes with joy, is just half rhetoric. Using the wealth tax to explain to the public that they have to pay their taxes with joy does not strengthen business. It does not strengthen the thousands of small businesses that are struggling with this, it does not strengthen the thousands of small business owners who have to collect money from the enterprise to pay the tax bill on the day they needed these funds for conversion – perhaps they have to convert the production, maybe they have to increase the skills of their employees, maybe they have to buy new technologies to market their production and become more competitive towards a powerful international market. That's why we want to do something about the property tax. This isn't about being unclear, it's about being crystal clear on behalf of thousands of companies out there that create jobs and values.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1515	It is a little entertaining to follow this debate, because the red-greens give the impression that if there is a change of government, Norwegian business leaders and Norwegian workers will act quite differently — all of a sudden it will be bad in the Norwegian economy. That's not how it's going to be. I think the same properties you have today will continue with a new government. What a new government can contribute to, on the other hand, is to have a real understanding of why things are going well in this country. When one is unable to have that understanding with today’s government, one will not be able to get it in place on the day of the economic cycle, the day the shift of shale gas prices in the United States is likely to contribute to a change in Norwegian gas exports, and the level of investment is changing. What is one supposed to do? The consequences of the government's policy, pretending that one understands the industry, but does not give industry the means it really needs, are that we now have the lowest investment level in Norwegian industry in 40 years. An example of a lack of understanding is when this government boasts of what they are doing in the power market for Norwegian industry. This government promised to put in place a power market system, an industrial power system, which would offer lower prices than the market could offer. Once the government has provided this through the Guarantee Institute, no industrial enterprises have been put into service – none. All electricity contracts that have been concluded have been entered into on the market. So one sees that the market works better than government policy. There is no reason to believe that it will be worse if a new government takes over. This government delivers fine words, but not an instrument of content. I would also like to remind you that in its economic analysis No. 3 from 2011 wrote that the demand from the petroleum industry contributed very much to the economic recovery. Thus, that economic recovery was from 2004 – before the government change – to 2008. Then employment increased by about 300,000 people. But they're pointing to the oil industry. What we also need to remember is that after 2008, employment has risen again – it has. But there is in the public sector one has got more employees. In all other industries, there is flat development or decline. For me, employing more people in the public sector does not strengthen future value creation, while employment in competitive business is falling. This is important to understand how the economy works, what measures need to be taken so that we can have a lot of legs to stand on. So some here have given the impression that there is a responsible economic policy that will be the difference between today's government and the next government. No, in fact not, the Progress Party can guarantee that a new government will conduct a responsible economic policy. We in the Progress Party have sent our alternative state budget to the SSB for the calculation of the consequences. By having a better tax policy than the government to stimulate business by stimulating labour, the SSB expects us to increase GDP, increase employment, lower inflation and lower interest rates. It is better for Norwegian industry and better for ordinary people than the policy of today's government. I think the government should listen to the SSB, where the Prime Minister is still working.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1530	Since the representative Lillian Hansen obviously has a bit of a hard time doing that today, I'll quote from what I actually said. I have not said that it was the fishing vessels that wasted their profitability. I said that ‘traditional mainland industries, and in particular the fishing industry, are struggling with low profitability and increasing costs’. That's what I was talking about in my post. So to the representative Holmelid who talked about that there was not a uniform policy that was put forward by the opposition parties. Some of us have actually been sitting in this room for a few years afterwards – this was 2004 – and I can promise the representative Holmelid the following: When the government that dates from these three red-green parties presented its budgets in 2004, there was no overall budget that was presented – they split in every direction. It is after the government negotiations that the individual majority solutions are found between the parties. There have been many good posts related to shipping, and many important posts. Because Norwegian shipping is exposed to competition, it is very important that we have good framework conditions. Several representatives have also shown that the Bondevik administration was unable to deliver. But it took several years for this government to agree on what had to do with today's reimbursement system for the seafarers. What ended up with was not a net pay scheme, but a reimbursement scheme with a ceiling of NOK 198 000. It was introduced on 1 July 2008. This ceiling has not been changed, i.e. that, for each year, the actual value of that scheme is reduced. We also see that with the number of seafarers who are included in the scheme, which has fallen in recent years. And then it's also shown that it's important to fence around this system. I fully agree with that. It is very important to fence this system for all types of crew on board these boats, which is what this is all about. It's a little strange that you don't want to be part of the legal system, because there are actually some things that fall into place if you want to change it in the long term. Then you have to go through the Storting, you have to take care of the hearings and what's going to happen. In other words, it is a certainty for those within the scheme whether it is statutory. I have seen that the representative Else-May Botten has traveled the coast around and in a very good way has talked about such a law-enforcement. It is sad that this conclusion has not yet been reached by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1545	The representative Bakke-Jensen asked me to clarify the criteria before the award of green concessions. Yes, it comes in an allocation order that I explained in a row here. I hope that I get a loud yes in this room today to distribute these concessions, and then the allocation order will come, and it will be ready. Bakke-Jensen was concerned about the use of the courts. Yes, but in a legal state, citizens are free to make use of the legal system in any case, including in the case of concessions in the farming industry, if they feel so. So to the changes in the delivery obligations, where the Hill-Jensen in its first post after my main post, which, after what I can interpret – now one should be careful to interpret – was on the frontier, at least, to be a little upset. When I interpret statements from the Right there that it is not willing to bring delivery obligations into line with what was the intention of the arrangement, it is with the background, among other things. in the opinions of the representative of the Fleet in the Class Battle on 10 November: ‘We are very sceptical about further regulation in this area.’ Yes, ‘very skeptical’ – a statement with gravity. In addition, when, in a reply to me today, the representative, Bakke-Jensen, draws up the simplifications of the legislation as a problem with regard to the delivery obligations, it is possible that it is a bit far-reaching. I can agree with that, but at least I interpret it as looking for arguments to be against these intrusions. It's an honest thing to be against, but then I actually think it's neater to say that you're actually against these contractions. Then I dare remind you that the delivery obligations are primarily the coin of specific installations or a region in the area. I am very aware of the proposal that was promoted to allow the coastal fleet to fish the trawls' quota, but then I just have to say that I am against changing the trawl path, which I find quite a few on the coast are, or for that reason, amending the participant law, which the proposal on industrial quotas implies. But what's great is that we get a debate about the different instruments, and then you can agree or disagree. Then I have to conclude with a small line to Solvik-Olsen, which says that we claim that with a new government there will be a bad deal with Norwegian business. I haven't heard a lot of that saying, but I hear a lot of people asking for clarification in important areas of Norwegian business. I want to warn against experiments on both the rule of action and many other important issues for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1566	The representative Haugen said it very well when he described his Christian People's Party's agricultural policy that the Christian People's Party is trying to conduct a policy that is even more red-green than what they red-green do, but will nevertheless go into government with the Right, which reduces the agricultural surplus by 1.57 billion. kr, and the Advance Party, which reduces by about 5,5 billion. kr. Then Andersen Eide's representative is a little offended and says that a voice to the Christian People's Party at the election is a voice to improve the peasant's condition. Hasn't the representative Andersen Eide got me out from the Right and the Progress Party lately, saying that they're going to get along, they're going to come together in agricultural policy? In fact, there is an Atlantic between what the Christian People's Party wants – at least they say – and what the Right Party and the Advance Party want. If the Christian People's Party is concerned about agricultural policy, they must put an end to ultimatum and make it clear that supporting a government that reduces agricultural transfers is out of date. The right has also had two posts here with the representative Røbekk Nørve concerning agriculture. There were many fine words there, but the budget to the Right speaks its clear language. One doesn't have to be a big calculator to understand that a reduction of 1.57 billion. kr is not compensated for by NOK 700000 in tax bills, as Right does. Of these 700,000, the brother goes to the owner of the property, it doesn't go to the current pawn. I was at the annual meeting of Sogn and Fjordane Bondelag this year together with Lødemel. There he had a post in which he expressed his opinion on customs protection, and that one should use the space for action within the WTO Agreement. At least that's not what the Right stands for today, not in this room either, as far as I've got with me. The same person also said: I want to release the farmer, that's my goal. In the past, it was only the Progress Party that used this expression, but it actually underpins the fact that the Right Party and the Progress Party will find themselves together in agricultural policy. As I said, there is an Atlantic between what is the Christian People's Party's dreams, and the reality that the Right Party and the Advance Party want before agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party's dream is quickly a nightmare if there's a government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1579	First and foremost, Mr Solvik-Olsen. I just want to quote from the Statistical Central Bureau, which presented its report for the third quarter, where they write that figures for the third quarter consistently show good results for industry. And on the other hand, ‘The exemption is investments that have fallen due to lower investments in food, which have been high. There are now more than 257,000 employees in industry and mining." [[...]] It's a little bit of the reality that lies there. The food industry may not be the industry in which the Progress Party is particularly concerned, at least not if it is based on agricultural policy. The agricultural policy of the Right and the Advance Party is like a black and white image from what is ruling. The adoption of the Agricultural Policy of the Right and the Advance Party would have dramatic consequences for the food industry and the food industry. It would give strong inroads into this industry immediately. The fact that the Christian People's Party declares its – let's say – love to the Right by saying that they will have enough good talks about partnership, does not testify to particular credibility in agricultural policy. On the contrary, I believe that Norwegian farmers after the 2013 elections, if the Christian People's Party is involved in inserting the Right Party and the Advance Party into government, will feel this as the greatest infidelity in Norwegian politics ever. It's very unfortunate. One cannot show love on one side and then adultery on the other. In summary, in my opinion, this debate has been a tribute to the government's policy. In fact, there are no critical votes against industrial policy and the underpinning of business according to the policy pursued by the government. On the contrary, I feel that there is massive support and many who are holding to the direction that one has chosen within the business concept. What is good to clarify, and which is essential for Norwegian business as well, is the tax relationship and the relationship to the rule of action. It is okay to clarify this at the end of the debate: should the rule of action be firm, or should there be some sort of floating, non-existent rule of action? That must be answered by the Right Party and the Advance Party. The last is the relationship to taxation, property taxes, which right now is beginning to become very unclear. The representative of the fleet said he wanted to remove the property tax. But when and how, it's good to know. And then it's very good to know how to avoid zero taxpayers in Norway too. For the Right, they don't want property taxes, they don't want property taxes, and income taxes are not for the group we're talking about. How will the Right ensure that you do not get zero taxpayers in Norway? These key issues for Norwegian business must be answered by both the Right and the Advance Party. Because it's a paradox that after 7.5 years of opposition, they haven't been able to get any closer than a 20-billion-billion-dollar tax break. kr. It bears witness to immortality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1603	Let me first say that although there are group graduations tonight, I'm not ready for any cheating, and at least not with the Christian People's Party, which has its own group end. Let me say to the representative of Aasland, who is talking about property taxes, the same thing as in the post he's made earlier today: he's occupied by the hundreds richest. Holmelid heard that the business came and thanked him for the state's contribution to the establishment of their business. I also hear about people who have received support from Innovation Norway. But what about the hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who belong to the small ones in society, those who run small businesses, those who pay taxes on wealth, whether they earn money or not, and who have not received any commitment from Innovation Norway? What about them? And besides, if the hundreds of richest people are such a big problem, why haven't they spent eight years trying to do something with all these rich people you hate so much? I really have to ask myself that. I must also be allowed to answer a little about the agricultural policy of the Battle of Vedum and more. In terms of the customs increases, which we want to reverse, we have said, you push the food industry in front of you. In fact, the Norwegian food industry is also part of the chain. What do they buy to produce products? Yes, they buy Norwegian raw materials. They are concerned that there will be more expensive raw materials, because they will have to compete with imported goods – with pizza, with cheese and meat from elsewhere, which will fall under other customs tariffs. It's their competition. Therefore, they are not a hostage to Battle Violence Vedum & Co. When it comes to our cuts, we're standing by them. I am in the process of reorientating Norwegian agricultural policy in a different way, of stimulating more for production and less use of money on what I think Battle violence Vedum said here a day, what is around production, which is around agriculture itself. And when someone says on the one hand right-hand side, on the other hand, we're going to compensate for tax relief, you have to open the book and read our entire budget. There are a number of other proposals designed to stimulate easier farming and make it more profitable. That's what's our agenda. We don't want to upset agriculture, as it sounds like, we want to make it profitable, we want to make it viable and viable. We have some other solutions. It's not yesterday's solutions that are high in rocks, it's tomorrow's solutions that we think.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1616	We note in this debate that there is no alternative industrial policy in this Chamber to what the red-green government stands for. There are no major changes that are needed to produce good results because the good results speak for themselves. Right, which is now the largest opposition party in polls, says that the good outcome is that you are allowed to talk about your own policy. Well, we're now inviting the Right to talk about our own policies, because it seems very unclear that, on the one hand, seven years ago, one has had as its major alternative in industrial policy the removal of the wealth tax – and the representative Fleet repeated it today, not overnight, maybe over several nights, maybe over four years, but it has to go away – while the newspapers now tell the voters that you don't want zero-taxors. It cannot be an entirely illegitimate requirement that, after seven years, one should have thought about the issue of zero-taxors when we have repeated and repeated that it is one of the main challenges. As the representative Terje Aasland said; this is a group that does not pay income taxes, because they do not have income, and therefore they become zero taxpayers. The tax on real estate is an impractical increase," says Jan Tore Sanner, and according to the programme to the Right, the municipal property tax is even to be removed. What kind of taxation is there to ensure that these peoples don't become zero taxpayers? You have to be able to answer that. Are they going to get a weirdo when they go to the store? Do they need excise duties on petrol? Will they receive an invoice in the post office, with a nice letter from Højres head office asking to make a generous contribution to the state to avoid becoming zero taxpayers? After all, in seven years they must have hatched an idea of how these people will continue to pay taxes when they are not to pay taxes on wealth, property taxes and income taxes. It's not Rocket Science we're asking about here. We ask the representative Fleet, or perhaps others from the Right who have insight into tax policy, to answer the simple question: how can we combine the removal of property taxes with not creating many zero-taxors?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1633	First to the representative Fleet: if he comes to the end of the Christian People's Party and doesn't intend to commit adultery there, and maybe then we can talk a little bit about agricultural policy, we're very open to it. I note the concern of Ingrid Heggø, the Workers' Party and others here related to agricultural policy. It seems – also a little bit on the last article from the Council of State – that you have almost taken for granted that there will be a change of government. It is good to note that there is such concern about how the opposition should implement a policy on behalf of a new majority. With regard to the tax on wealth, I can at least recommend the solution of the Christian People's Party, namely that we cut the tax on the wealth tax on working capital – in other words, cut out the tax that goes directly to Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs, but that we do not cut the tax on what may be collected for private consumption. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, I just want to remind you that in the governments in which the Christian People's Party has participated for the last 10–15 years, there has not been a break in the negotiations, as we experienced earlier this year under the Red-Green Government. I understand that you need to point out to others when you saw that those grades failed just a few months ago. Just as a curiosity, as far as I know, it was under former Minister of Agriculture Johan C. The onion from the Right that the percentage of GNI spent on agriculture was the highest. So we look forward to constructive cooperation with the Right, no matter what position it should be in after the election. We stand for our policies, and we intend to promote and ask for the confidence of the voters. I take with me the careful attacks from the position – they think we should manage together, in what might become a new majority after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1646	I know the parliamentary leader Hans Olav Syversen as a man who can read, and I also expect the parliamentary leader Hans Olav Syversen to have read the budgetary position on agricultural policy, and that the army leader of the Christian People's Party has read the agricultural settlement history and sees the difference between Bondevik II and the red-green government. Your own party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, said in a debate with me at Political Quarter that he had more sense of the agricultural policy of the Red-Green Government and Jens Stoltenberg than Erna Solberg's agricultural policy. It surprises me that the Christian People's Party can take it so easily when you see that Right Cuts 1.5 billion. kr with effect from 1 January and that the Advance Party will cut more than 5 billion. kr from the first 1 January, and when the Party of Progress and the Right will remove some of the most important for the price in the market by not giving the opportunity to change to a percentage duty. I'm surprised that the Christian People's Party is taking this with a shoulder strap. When we look at the story, we see how difficult the agricultural operations were under Bondevik II, where you had pure minus settlement. We all know the reason that it was an agreement. It wasn't because it was a plus settlement, but it was because he was afraid that it would be even bigger minus settlement, and agriculture felt compelled to sign the agreements. Norwegian agriculture is facing a fateful election next year, with the support of the entire agricultural policy being put to the elections. There are attacks on customs protection, budgetary support and the role of cooperatives. I expect that the Christian People's Party, which is trying to run a high profile for this, will dare to stand up and be clear also to the Progress Party and the Right, when they go to such a huge attack on an industry that has over 50,000 employees, and that has a large, land-based food industry around the whole of Norway, and that means so much to what Norway we are so happy about. It's touching to note Right's concern about increased food prices as you increase the food tax in your own budget. Only the increased food tax will be more than the so-called taxes on Norwegian agriculture you come with. There you have also been very creative on your own behalf to blow up those figures as much as possible in terms of how to improve the conditions for Norwegian agriculture. Only one percentage point with an increase in VAT is more than the tax base, even if you accept the Right Premise for Tax Letters. It of course chooses the right not to mention a word. I have read the budget position with pleasure, and the right has one single investment in agriculture. It is NOK 600000 and shall go to animal protection organisations and NOAH. The rest is cut, but NOK 600 000 is the bet, and it will go to NOAH and other animal protection organisations. There is no investment in Norwegian agriculture, and there is no investment in Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1661	I want to link some comments to some of the attacks and comments related to my party and my post. First, I want to answer the representative Lillian Hansen, who is offended that I said there were demonstrations against the government outside. She said that she could not see any demonstration trains in support of the Progress Party's policy. No, that's not why they went on a demonstration train. They went on demonstration trains to get rid of the government, which provides a bad policy. They had banners with slogans like "Morn'a, Jens!" and "Shir, Jens!" This must be directed towards the Workers' Party, since Jens Stoltenberg is not in the Progress Party. Violent violence Vedum criticises us in the Advancement Party, among other things. Mr Nesvik, not to mention agricultural policy. It's a little strange, because we've had 20 minutes of main posts, and 10 minutes of them are spent on agriculture. So if you haven't heard it, you've either not been present in the hall, or you haven't heard of it. And then you might have to assume that the next time you listen to what's being said, you don't make such statements. Then he was also very concerned about this with customs protection, that it was the most important thing they had done. You might think so, but there is also a change, because in June Jens Stoltenberg and Minister for Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre were both out there and said that there would be no more customs, there would be less customs. But then the summer came, and the Center Party ended up below the barrier, and then you're back again and you're turning on what you've said before. So it shows the red-green policy: it just goes up and down in sine curves. Then Bendiks H. Arnesen was concerned with the flood damage in Troms, that it was important, and I agree with Bendiks H. Arnesen in it. This was also mentioned by the representative of Lange Nordahl. But the problem is that the government has not given it money. The Minister of Agriculture went up to Troms, and I was there fourteen days after he had been visiting. Then he had gone out and promised the farmers that this would be fixed, they only had to buy in machines and everything, because they would get compensation. They have not received anything. They don't want to see the Minister of Agriculture up there several times, what they tell me when I'm visiting, because they feel kind of betrayed by the Oslo elite, as they call it. Agriculture policy is hostile to rural areas, and they do not feel at home in it. That's what I'm told, and it comes from the Center Party's own up there. So maybe you should get up and hear a little bit about what's going on around. Tor Bremer was very concerned with bureaucrats. Today, every bureaucrat represents ten farmers. There are extremely many bureaucrats if you go in and see. And they run off farms with most of the money. Then Aasland is out after you're not satisfied with the industry. The food industry wants a government shift, because they want to do something about the regulator role so that you can get enough raw material, because they don't have enough raw material today. What you have with the red-green government is too little milk, butter, ribs and stick meat – 64 pst. More expensive food than in the EU, three uses per day are dropped, for the first time there are less than 10 000 farms, we have a decrease of 70,000 jobs in one year, we have a meat industry that lacks raw materials. In fact, the last chance of the peasants is a change of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1683	It's interesting to hear how the red-green batches try to attack the opposition in terms of the property tax. The Progress Party has clearly said that we want to reduce and finally eliminate the wealth tax in its present form. That doesn't mean that we want zero valuers, and we're going to find a solution to that. We admit that it might be complicated. That's why we need to sit in the Ministry of Finance and get help there. Similarly, we can ask the red-green what in the world they want with the wealth tax. The Minister of Economic Affairs was out more than a year ago and said that the property tax has unfortunate consequences for Norwegian business, so we have to make changes to it. But in spite of that, despite having been in government for seven and a half years, they have not yet come up with the final solution to how they want the property tax to be aligned. How many finally pay taxes on wealth? What level should that be? What kind of proceeds do you want for the state? One has been sitting for seven and a half years with the best office in the world, we're going to believe the government, but one is not going to be able to say where you're going to end up. It's unreasonable to put those demands on an opposition that we have to deliver a finished system before we take the government offices, when today's government can't even say where the property tax is going to be a few years in time. But what we're saying is that 655,000 Norwegians have to pay taxes on wealth because the 100 richest ones have to be taken, and that's going to be wrong anyway. So if we could at least agree on one thing, we could remove the property tax for, we'll say, the 400,000 with the lowest income that pays it today. Then we had come a long way. But even there, I don't think we get with the government. So, about the rule of action. The Progress Party believes that we need to modernise the rule of action. And then there's some people who give the impression that it's going to put the Norwegian economy over it. They should talk to the SSB, which will confirm that the Norwegian economy is likely to go better than today. And why? Yes, because the Progress Party will limit the growth of the public sector. So we want to use the tax money more effectively. In addition, we will increase investment in profitable infrastructure in Norway. It will improve the functioning of the economy. We want to remove bottlenecks. This means that business costs are falling, and we're improving margins, and we're improving competitiveness. This is positive for Norway. Yes, today's government allocates more money to road and rail than the previous government, but then today's government also has over 400 billion. kr more in expenditure. If we look at the space of action this government has had, we haven't seen a very priority of road and rail. When one boasts that one's going to spend 100 billion. kr in the 10-year period 2010-2019, one does not mention that, within the same period of time, one has 1622 billion. NOK at disposal. This government has spent a total of 27 billion dollars. kr more on road investments of eight years than the level of the last year of the Bondevik Government. The Progress Party has proposed an increase every year without a majority in favour, but 27 billion. NOK is not very much when you have saved 3000 billion in the same period. kr abroad. Denmark is now going to borrow oil money for 1 pst. interest, while the drivers pay 2.5-3 pst. interest when they run on Norwegian bomb roads. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1696	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1699	Let me first tell the Minister of Industry that I think he should be careful to ridicule the liquidation of a tax that he himself has been strong to remove. I don't think there's any particular understanding of that in business. In the line, I also talked about those who have the most, and who have the tax ability, also have to pay taxes, and then we can find solutions to that. Then I have to tell the Minister of Agriculture that there are others other than the Centre Party who are happy in Norway, and there are others – unlike the Centre Party – who believe that farmers can make a living without having to be protected by this very last small increase in customs protection, which the Minister of Agriculture himself has sometimes devalued. Moreover, in our alternative agricultural report, we have said that we believe that customs protection is a pillar, that we must continue to have market regulation, and that we must have agricultural settlements, as precisely as those conditions must the Minister of Agriculture stop talking about from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1709	I have to comment on the representative Torgeir Tåldal, who had chosen to use very strong words, but, as I see it, a little weaker arguments. Among other things, there were very strong words about the situation in Troms. It is quite right that I chose to travel up to Troms when there was a flood this summer because I wanted to talk to people who were affected, and meet people directly, not just read reports in the paper. I believe it is one of the major advantages in Norway, that we have close contact between government and industry, and discuss when there are challenges. But it's completely wrong, as the representative of Träldal says, that I promised gold and green forests, because I know that it was very demanding for those who were affected, and I said that it was very demanding. I also stated that it was going to be tough economically for those who were affected. But what I said, and which I'm very happy about, is that my predecessor, Lars Peder Breck, has made improvements in the arrangements that have made it, among other things. have become an estimate of crop damage, so when there are increased damage, we provide more money. And we're going to do that in the budget today. It'll be 40 million. kr more for crop damage just because it is an estimate. It's been a tough year, so there'll be more money in the pot. There will be no more money for each one, but everyone will be sure that within the scheme we have, this will be fully financed. Therefore, the government also changed it to an estimate. Natural damage has been estimated over time, and we're increasing it today by 57 million. kr. So it's 97 million. kr extra that is granted today, thanks to the fact that we have estimates that create predictability for the individual. It's demanding for the individual, but at least we have insurance through the big society. Then it's amazing to listen to the representative, Tjäldal. So you're going to have to cut 5.5 billion. kr. 85 pst. of the budget money goes to the grass-based livestock farm, i.e. the livestock farm as you, for example. has in Kirkesdalen. It's grass-based. And we know that the customs changes we're making in addition will also strengthen the grass-based livestock team by allowing farmers to charge for their milk and their steak, and making sure they have a provision for it. It would not have been profitable to farm in Troms if the Treldal had been able to make its proposals. Then we had no need for crop damage compensation, because then there had been no crop to harvest. If you cut almost half of the budget, at least the drum valley is one of the first things you want to put down. Then you can talk about as much crop damage as you want, because then there would be no crop to save. So you just have to ask the representatives of Stortinge to be honest about the consequences of their own policies. If they do not know the consequences of their own policies, they should be a little more careful in speaking out so strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1722	I have been among those who have wanted to look at the corporate tax to see if the unfortunate consequences of the property tax can be adjusted. Among other things, I have called for equal taxation of various property items. But that doesn't mean zero taxation of various property items, and that's what the Right has stood for. When I took up this discussion, I said there were three important assumptions. One is to maintain the level of income, the level of taxation, for the state of health, school and care for the elderly. The second is to ensure an equally good distribution effect, and the third is to make sure you don't get zero-taxors. This means that to the extent that you reduce the tax on wealth, you have to increase other taxes. It has rejected the right so far in cash. Now the right is being challenged: what is the compensation for a property tax to be removed, which is to ensure that you do not get zero-taxors, when these peoples do not have income tax and therefore do not pay income tax, and you do not have to have property tax? What's the tax? It's not like you need the world's best office, as Solvik-Olsen says, to hatch it. It's just looking at what kind of taxes exist. If you've been sitting for three and a half years and you've been a fiscal spokesman and you've been working on tax policy, and you can't answer what taxes are going to replace a tax on wealth, you just don't have a response to your own policy. That's what you have to be able to demand. Now Erna Solberg has been in the same butcher's shop for three and a half years and has told us that the property tax is going to go away. It is not easy to say when you meet small business managers, but then you have unpleasant consequences when you get a lot of zero-taxors – and then you say no, I didn't mean it anyway, in another forum. We're looking at the area by area. When the Right discusses the ownership message, you have to sell out a lot of state companies. Then you are challenged that it gives you flagging out and is just relocating property to solid Norwegian companies to foreign companies through the oil fund. Then you are not quite so eager to sell out anyway. Yesterday I was in debate with the Right School Policy spokeswoman, Elisabeth Aspaker, who says that no, no, no, no, no large-scale privatisation of Norwegian school is proposed. At the same time, it is proposed in its programme to set up private schools for those who want to. We can't have such a flat-faced policy, where you mean one in one forum, and where you mean something else in another forum. This is simply not the way to control Norway. It's going well in the opposition, but then you should also stay in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1739	Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1742	That was a comment to the representative of Solvik-Olsen. Solvik-Olsen says they should not remove the action rule; they should only adjust it. The adjustment is for them to spend more on investment and less on public consumption. But I assume that the representative Solvik-Olsen knows what public consumption is. It's school, it's care, it's social security, it's care, it's hospital – so I want Solvik-Olsen to tell him where to cut the public service supply so he can use more for investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1749	Irene Lange Nordahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1752	Let me stress that the red-green government is pursuing a responsible policy – no doubt so – but at the same time manages to raise the stake and take important action. One of the steps taken is to strengthen import protection. The customs regime that the government is now taking is crucial to boost profitability – which we have been involved in here today. The debate has shown clear lines of division between the red-green and the opposition. But it is now time for the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to clarify the content of the marriage they intend to marry, especially in relation to agriculture. They haven't done that here today. What the debate has made clear is that if the right forces do not exist, we will have a dramatic change in Norwegian agricultural policy that we have not seen before. For all those concerned with Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry, there is good reason to call for warnings to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1763	Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1766	First to the property tax. Now it's obviously like everybody has to look at it. Since it is not Rocket science, I strongly assume that the Minister of Industry has the solution before he goes off after the next elections. If we don't, we have to find solutions. Then I have to take a trip to the Minister of Fisheries, given the fleet's statements in the Class Battle. It's not always the class struggle is the right newspaper to read if you want to read straight about Right Policy. The opinion concerned the wording of the out-of-office consultation note, which was intended to provide raw material for the most labour intensive production. We're not quite sure that that's the solution to create profitable activity on the coast. So the Fisheries Minister said that you couldn't change the beam path, and she wouldn't change the participant law. Well, until that's said, those conditions are already exempt from the participant law, and the beam path is actually changed no more than once you have the trawl fleet to fish quota from the coastal fleet in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1775	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1778	I record that the Minister of Industry says it is not 'rocked science' to change the property tax. At the same time, he has not presented changes in line with the wishes he himself communicated in January 2011. Then it seems that he is quite incapable of driving himself «rocked science». Growth in public consumption wants the Progress Party to limit, simply because it will force us to streamline the public sector. Menon had a report that was submitted in March this year, that one could cut public expenditure on purchases by up to 45 billion. kr by increasing the efficiency of that scheme. So just there's a lot of money to pick up. There is much more to it than the Progress Party proposes in tax relief. In addition, we want to spend more oil money on investing in capital in Norway, rather than capitalising abroad. I think it's interesting that Norwegian socialists think it's cooler to spend money on stock markets than trying to build this country. Looking at the needs of infrastructure in Norway, there is not a lack of necessity, but there is a lack of priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1785	Torgeir Tåldal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1789	Only one response to the National Council of Battle Violence Vedum and several other red-green politicians who say that if there is a change of government, this will be dramatic, there will have to be warnings, there will be great consequences, and that is the closure of all agriculture. It is, in my opinion, proof that they admit that their policy is not working, because today it is not working. But, as I said earlier today, today's situation is that we have too little milk, too little butter, too little rib, too little stick meat, we have food that is 64 pst. more expensive than the most expensive EU country. So we have three uses that are laid down every day – 21 a week, even on Sundays – and for the first time in history, we have less than 10,000 farms. So we have a fall of 70,000 decare land in one year – it's with the government council Battle violence Vedum in government – and the meat industry lacks raw materials, in the world's richest country. It is the red-green policy in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1796	Terje Aasland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short line, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1799	No matter how much speaking time the party spends on its own agricultural policy, there will be no more food production for that reason. I think we can see that after this debate. So I think we can also sum up that the Progress Party is standing on the verge of having the approach to the rule of action that it should be liquid, that it should not be consistent, and that it is of less importance how one uses oil money in relation to the costs that we have. Then we can also see that after seven and a half years of opposition, the opposition has a 20-billion-billion-dollar tax break. kr, which is not entirely immaterial for Norwegian business to be clarified, but they are unable to clarify how to approach consensus in that field. On the contrary, the speck is increasing. Then we can see that it is highly uncertain whether the Right is able to put in place a system where by removing the property tax, one does not end up with zero taxpayers. There is good reason to believe that that will be the consequence of Right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1808	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1811	I think what's the best medicine to tell you what the individual parties stand for is actually listening to the parties themselves. Now we just heard the chairman of the committee trying to sum up the debate from his point of view. It was not very impressive what he was asking for. I can at least say one thing, I think it's the most important thing, and that's that, like what happened in 2004, that's when you made the last budget, the red-greens also split in all the bows and edges. An election result was obtained in the autumn of 2005, and they decided to sit down together. That's exactly what it's all about in cooperation. I actually think we should have respect for the voters and let them make their choices. Once that's done, those with a majority within reach get to sit down and discuss solutions. I am convinced that the Minister of Industry will be in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1818	I sat in committee with the representative Nesvik at the end of the last period. Then, too, he was convinced that he would be in position. It was wrong then, and I think it is going to be wrong now. I took the floor for what I thought should be a short comment, because the representative Treldal has repeated many things, time after time, and among other things. The last time he said that there were 10,000 units in agriculture – the representative nodding. Then it is important that the representative next time he goes to the pulpit has read the budgetary documents and seen how many units it actually is – or he can read it at the SSB or many other places. It's not less than 10,000, it's about 50,000. But it is clear that it says a little about the agricultural policy of the Progress Party when you can't even basic facts about the extent of Norwegian agriculture. If you look at agricultural mills, it's just above 50,000, and in the case of production units, it's a little under 50,000. But the Progress Party clearly operates with the fact that it is at the base of 10,000 – even if it is wrong. It makes a little bit more sense that you want to cut almost half of the budget support when you think there's a fifth of the production units that it actually is. It was clarifying to me at the end of the debate that the whole analysis by the Progress Party is based on a mistake. But this is the problem of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party: they have analyses and strong opinions, but not knowledge and understanding of what the industry is actually doing – and that it is not least the largest units that depend most on good customs protection. I would like to congratulate Mr Tåldal on his training. You can come to the Ministry of Agriculture and learn a little about the size of Norwegian agriculture and how beautiful Norwegian agriculture is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1831	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1834	This was the last major budget debate on the Ministry of Industry and Enterprise policy before and during the elections. We can see that Børge Brende's gloomy 2005 predictions that tens of thousands of jobs would be lost with a red-green government, not only made to shame, but have turned completely out the opposite, with 330,000 more jobs – in the midst of a deeper European crisis than anyone could imagine. I note that the issue that has been the flagship of the opposition, or the only flagship of the Right and Advance Party, in these years, namely the removal of the property tax, is now, after seven years, complete in no man's country. It is completely unclear what should happen to this property tax, except that it should be removed. How to ensure that zero taxpayers are not given, how to ensure a good distribution effect and how to ensure the maintenance of health, care and school bets are absolutely unclear. So you've been able to spend seven years without finding the answer. To the representative of Solvik-Olsen, I would say that if he wants to take advantage of the world's best offices, as he called it, to investigate other possible tax items or to investigate how the wealth tax can be removed without creating zero-taxors, he would have to do so. But that's what's the whole problem, that people who don't have income and don't pay income taxes, and who don't have to be taxed harder on the property side, will be zero taxpayers if you remove the property tax. That's one of the reasons why we've been resisting the elimination of property taxes all along, for seven years. It has been opportune to travel around to the companies and say that you should remove it, but when the reality comes to light, it becomes different. The right is saying that you're talking about your own policy. Now we've talked so much about our own policies that we're starting to have more policies at the same time. It's probably a good strategy in a short horizon, but as it's demanded, it becomes terribly problematic. This I think we'll look at more and more areas, because if you're a little too quick to mean things without having an answer to the consequences of that policy – whether it's sales of state companies, whether it's massive privatization of Norwegian school or total removal of wealth tax – it's going to be very, very problematic to reach the voters. I am pleased that the Right will be allowed to continue talking about its policies or policies in the months leading up to the elections. At the same time, I note that there are no alternatives to the offensive industrial policy pursued by the government, nor should it be, because it has produced very good results through a tough crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1847	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1861	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1870	I'm happy to be able to present the majority position, Innst. 134 S, on a liquidity loan to the SAS group, etc., a so-called traction facility. On the other hand, I am not quite happy with developments in SAS, but there are no feelings that govern this matter. The case is about the completely necessary financial constructions of the company. There is no doubt that the company is now in a critical phase, and it is absolutely necessary for the company to have the necessary measures implemented to get out of the very difficult situation in which it is located, including putting this so-called traction facility in place. It has been assumed by the company that one can implement the necessary measures now without further borrowing, but that one clearly needs to maintain the traction facility to which we are now agreeing and which can be used if liquidity would come under pressure for a period of time. The state's contribution to the draft facility is made together with the Swedish and Danish state, KAW and seven banks under certain conditions. Similarly, this is under market conditions and after a commercial assessment of the best interests of the country in SAS. I think it might be nice to notice that today's draft facilities are not drawn on, and that they would have been closed by the summer of 2013. The participants in today’s traction facilities could thus have been out of this exposure in SAS during the next six months. Thus, through the new agreement, seven banks extend part of their exposure until 31 March 2015. I think that's the right solution. The economic development of SAS has not been satisfactory. It shall be established both in the proposal and by the majority of the Committee. Similarly, SAS still has too high a cost level and too little flexibility despite the fact that it has undergone more shifts and cost reductions both in the past and now. I therefore believe that there is reason to stress the importance of SAS making the proposed cost reductions as soon as possible and in line with the assumptions made in the proposition. The requirement now to sell Unøe, as a wholly-owned subsidiary, because of the need to strengthen the SAŚ liquid situation, is, in my view and in the majority's view, a very good arrangement, not least for the future existence of Unøes, but also for SAS and the company's liquid situation. The Committee's position has highlighted the importance of Onøe as a company and service provider for Norway because the company serves key routes in the short-distance network in the districts where the transport options are few. We hope that the sale can happen quickly, and that it can be a strength for everyone involved. What has now happened, happens and will happen, involves demanding measures both for employees and for the company as a whole, but it is absolutely necessary to implement it. In that situation, I think there is reason to stress that all the trade unions in the SAS have concluded new pay and employment agreements with the company, and that this is an important contribution in terms of the cost reductions the company needs to make. I believe that in the course of this work it is absolutely necessary that the company's management and employees make a good venue for dialogue and interaction on the further process, and that all parties show great willingness to make reductions in their own costs – I also include management in this. I hope that this process, which we now agree to, succeeds, and that we do not use the traction facility, but that it is there as a foundation and as a safety net. I also hope that one can gradually establish such a position that one finds an industrial partner, and that, as a result, the State can sell out of SAS, to which the Stortinget has previously agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1887	First, I will be allowed to address the proposals that the Progress Party has in the vote, alone or together with others, then it is done. Unfortunately, SAS and lack of capital in SAS have been an ever-increasing theme in this room. The Norwegian State has a share in this company of 14,3 p.m. The stock value of this company has gone up and down a lot, and at times only what we have added to the company has been almost in line with the whole value of the company if you look at the share value. The two previous SAS cases have been linked to the injection of equity, and the Progress Party has said no to that. The progress party appreciated that the Minister of Industry said relatively early that it was not appropriate for the Norwegian State to enter the company with new equity. That made a lot of sense. This time, the Progress Party has come to the conclusion, like a unanimous committee, that there is no choice but to enter that drawing facility or to make the drawing facility available in a given situation. The background for us to go into that this time is that we give it on market terms. In addition, it has been suggested that there should be a security attached to this money. Eighteen aircraft have been secured, in ontøe airlines, and also in some property. In this matter, the Committee has sent a number of questions to the State Council. We have received many answers, and we have received some clarifying answers. In one of the answers to one of my questions about what had to do with the guarantee, reference was made to this company. But the matter is precisely that what is provided as a guarantee, is also part of what is the basis for the traction facility itself, namely that Onkøe is to be sold. The same thing is going to happen to a part of the property, and then we'll see what happens to the planes themselves. Then it's important to have control of these values that we make available. The Council of State writes in its reply to me that it is believed that the company will have such a lot of cash when these companies are sold, that there will be no problems associated with the traction facility – it remains to be seen. In this case, the party to the progress has chosen to put forward a slightly different proposal for a decision under II than the government has proposed, because as long as we take a decision that these things should be done under market conditions, it cannot be such as to empower the Council of State to change in the course of its decision. I'm a little surprised that you've laid down on that line. But as I said, I really hope that things will now go better for SAS. I hope it's the last time we see a SAS case like this in the hall, unless you come here to Stortinget and tell him that the Norwegian State has now sold its ownership of SAS. The Progress Party believes that the requirements previously laid down for this sale should not be imposed, but that it should simply be tried to dispose of the shares in the company at the highest price possible. I'm not going to pull the debate out anymore. This debate was in many ways exhausted long before the matter came to this Chamber. Unfortunately, it must be noted that SAS is reporting even more and more deficits in the company today, but we will see how things are going. Hopefully this should be sufficient, but – almost as a protocol – I doubt that this is the last time we have a case about SAS for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1904	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1907	I agree with the rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee that the economic development of SAS is not satisfactory. It hasn't been in a very long time. It is probably also a question of whether ownership has been adequately managed and developed. I understand that it's not so good to talk about it in a day when painting everything that has to do with business policy has been the most important thing. But it's a fact that this has gone over a very long time. The state ownership, especially in this company, is complicated given that there are also other states inside, but I think there is reason to stress that not much has happened, either in the attempts to change the results of the owner – there is also a responsibility for ownership in the dialogue with the company – or in the fact that I understand, of course, that it has not been the simplest, as the situation has been. The last time, we were opposed to further issuing to the company. So the guarantee that we're now giving, we're going to evaluate it a little bit differently. In addition, it is quite obvious that we are all in a compulsion situation. In any case, the Right believes that we have a significant responsibility for a company with a very large number of employees. We have to take that responsibility, especially when we still see a small chance that the company might develop positively. I really don't have much to add to the agreement itself. It's relatively technical. There's probably no doubt that it gives the banks that keep going, and that's in the syndicate, a somewhat better situation than the one they had. On the other hand, of course, you're also dependent on getting the banks on, so I see that this is complicated. What's good is that you've brought the employees on this. What becomes part of the management of ownership is to ensure that the involvement and willingness of employees and the company are followed up in the ownership dialogue with the company, also in relation to the other governments. That Onkøe can be sold out, is a good part of it all. It seems to me to the Council of State that he has been given credit. I expect that the initiative has come from the Norwegian side and not from foreigners in this context. Now that doesn't necessarily mean Norwegian. But I think what's important here, also for the competition, and for the Unseen part, is that we get a continuity that is better than the interruption of a bankruptcy situation that is more unpredictable than the situation we have now. Therefore, the guarantee is better. The proposal to sell only the shares has been repeated from the Right and the Advance Party this time. I think it could be a good valve to have for the government. Of course, the right-hand side also sees that the solution is most likely – when you are selling, because the old authority is there – is in industrial cooperation, but it could show up situations that are not now fully understood and that selling the shares can be economically useful for all the owners – perhaps only for some. So I would definitely recommend that proposal, which I understand is not accepted by anyone other than the Right and the Advance Party. We'll see if we can use that side. I have the confidence in the Council of State that it would be necessary to sell only the shares, he knows the way here to Stortinget – he has been here many times with SAS cases in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1920	Aviation is within a turbulent period, and it also frames SAS. The group has had weak financial results for several years, and the Stortinget has discussed the company at several times here in the Chamber. Through the capital add-ons in 2009 and 2010, the owners have contributed about 11 billion. kr in new capital of the group. The size and the other owners have also authorised the group to raise convertible loans. But the group is still facing major economic challenges. In 2011, the group had a deficit of 1.7 billion. Swedish kroner, which was a little bit less than the years before. There are many reasons for this, but the result is that the group is in a demanding economic situation, on which we are invited here to find a solution. SAS has now put in place new plans to reduce costs and strengthen its position in aviation. In order to implement these plans, the company needs to strengthen liquidity. The agreement has been reached to provide a credit facility of 3.5 billion. kr, and the three states bid with half of the facility. The Norwegian State shall provide a traction facility of approximately half a billion. This shall be based on market conditions and shall be based on an assessment of the best value of the assets held by the State in SAS. Sal of Ongoe is part of the plan to strengthen liquidity in the group. A Joint Committee emphasises the importance of route provision for Ongoe for the short-haul network in Norway and for the communication system in the districts. Opposition has had positive economic results over several years and is well equipped to develop beyond SAS. SAS is still facing major challenges that will require major changes. A joint committee emphasises the value of the fact that the company’s lease in such a process shows great willingness to carry out cost reductions also in lease structures and administrative structures. In total, this is a solution that can keep the state's values.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1937	The proposal states that economic developments in SAS have not been satisfactory in recent years and that the level of costs in SAS is still high and not flexible, despite shifts and cost reductions. The centre party refers to the sharing of these assessments by an overall committee, and the centre party will stress the importance of SAS making cost reductions as soon as possible in line with the assumptions set out in the new business plan, as well as strengthening liquidity through the sales launched there. An overall committee expects the new business plan to be implemented in line with the assumptions and that this will be clarified to the company. In this process, it is proposed that Onøe should be sold as part of the need to strengthen the liquid situation of SAS. The centre party supports this and will at the same time underline the importance of Onderøe for the route offer on the short-distance network in Norway. Recreation is important, since the company serves central routes in the short-distance network in districts where the transport options are few. A sale of Unøe may give Unøe a more independent position and, in the light of the positive results over several years, the company should be attractive for sale. The centre party will stress the importance of obtaining industrial owners with a long-term perspective of ownership after a sale. In its assessment, the Government shows that the proposed measures could make SAS more attractive to strategic partners, and that the company is best served with a new industrial partner on the ownership side, so that these measures could better facilitate the sale of the State’s shares in SAS. Moreover, I refer to the letter from the Minister of Industry, where a number of questions from the Committee have been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1950	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the committee for their thorough and timely consideration. For SAS as a company and for the State as a shareholder, such urgent clarification is important in the case. SAS has had significant deficits for several years. This is due to reduced demand from business travellers as a result of the financial crisis and to the fact that competition in Scandinavian aviation is very tough. Furthermore, despite significant savings measures, the company has faced significant challenges over a long period of time at a high cost level compared to its competitors. The company has implemented different cost and efficiency programmes. These have had positive effects but have not been sufficient to ensure a profitable SAS. The SAS has contributed about 11 billion in total. Swedish krona in equity extensions in 2009 and 2010. The background was to support business plans in order to ensure a profitable SAS and through the safe country's shareholder values. It is therefore disappointing to note that the company has not had satisfactory performance and that it is still struggling with an excessive cost level. In the spring of 2013, the existing credit facility will expire at about SEK 3.1 billion. Swedish krone, which significantly weakens SAS’ financial preparedness. On the basis of these challenges, SAS launched on 12 November a new business plan, 4XNG – 4 Excellence Next Generation. The plan provides new annual cost reductions of a total of 3 billion. Swedish krona with full effect from 2014/2015. According to the board of directors and management of the company, the main input into achieving the objective of the new business plan is new remuneration and working conditions, simplification of collective agreements and transition from a defined benefit to a defined contribution pension scheme for the employees of the SAS. New agreements with employees have been put in place, and I would like to take the opportunity to praise employees for their commitment to the plan and through the new agreements contribute to increasing the competitiveness of SAS. In this way, we guarantee jobs a safer future, even if competition is still demanding. In addition to reducing costs, SAS shall sell holdings for approximately 3,5 billion. Swedish Kronor, including the sale of the subsidiary Onøe, to ensure liquidity and to strengthen the balance during the implementation of the plan. The government is positive that Onøe, a well-run company, will be sold, as this will contribute to increased liquidity in SAS and a more independent position for Onøe. The 4XNG plan shall strengthen SAS, improve profitability and ensure future competitiveness. However, in order to ensure the implementation of the plan, the company needs to refinance the existing credit facility due in 2013 to ensure available liquidity. The Board of SAS has therefore addressed the banks that are behind the exit credit facility and the four largest shareholders with proposals to establish a draft facility of 3.5 billion. Swedish krona. An agreement has been reached between the company and the Scandinavian states, Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation, KAW, and seven private banks to make such a credit facility available until March 2015. The credit facility is granted on a non-discriminatory basis under market conditions and has strict conditions that must be met for access to the market. Loan collateral has also been established that is considered to provide the lenders with sound collateral for significant parts of the loan facility. With a holding of 14,3 pst. the Norwegian State’s share of the credit facility will be 500.5 million. Swedish krona. All other participants in the loan agreement have now formally approved participation in the loan facility. In other words, Norway is the last piece before a loan agreement can be signed. The Government considers it appropriate for the Norwegian State to participate in this credit facility. This is a hard-to-require loan agreement, and countries participate on the same market terms as banks. The Government considers that there is a good solution to safeguard the State's shareholder values in SAS and to ensure the implementation of the cost and sales programmes decided by the SAS Board of Directors and secure many jobs. The majority has previously authorised the government to sell the Norwegian State’s shares in SAS to an industrial operator. The Government considers that the implementation of the 4XNG plan will make SAS more attractive to such an operator and increase the possibility of selling the State’s holding in SAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1973	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1976	We largely agree on what we are referred to to doing in this case, but I still allow myself at least one line. A part of the new plan is a significant reduction in the salary and pensions of the company. Is there a way for companies that the Norwegian Minister of Economic Affairs would normally recommend to Norwegian businesses when problems arise, to cut significantly in wages and pensions, even if there may be other ways of doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1984	No, there is nothing we would rather want than that SAS was competitive with the acquired rights both for pay and working conditions and pensions that were in force, but the reality was that the way SAS was going would without change lead to the bankruptcy and loss of many jobs. There is always a dilemma as to whether an enterprise should go beyond the end, the workplaces disappear and the employees move into other jobs, other enterprises and other industries, or whether to make a skipper to make the enterprise profitable. If you cut too much in wages and pensions, the workers will automatically turn to industries that may have greater ability to pay for the labour force. We have a tight labour market in Norway, but with this plan at least we give the company and the employees the opportunity to save their jobs. But the whole package was assuming that the employees themselves saw it as more valuable to make that kind of changes than to be on a track that had led to a bankruptcy for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1989	There are two small questions I have for the Council of State – or one question, and then he can make a statement on number two. My question is, is all the things related to this case now resolved with ESA? Of course, this is a matter of course. whether or not this case may be filed for other reasons, and whether or not it is on market terms, when considering the percentage set. Can the Council of State say a little bit about that? So number two, can the state council now also confirm from this pulpit, and not just outside this house, that it won't be relevant to go into SAS with further equity in the time that comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e1998	First to the issue of ESA: this is in its system no State aid, no grant, no contribution from the State. This shall be done under commercial conditions, and it is therefore not a scheme which must be notified to ESA. We have had a dialogue with ESA to reduce the chances of breaking any legislation, but not an approval. This means that it is entirely possible that other market players can complain about this to ESA – we will never have any guarantee for that. But we believe that since this is given on business terms, it is not different how a private owner would behave to his company in a similar situation. On the other hand, I've said that there's an incredible amount in there for us to go in with new equity. We have no plans about what we don't want about it, but as the responsible owner, I think at the same time that you should never say 100 pst. I'm sure you don't want to do that. You have to keep the doors open, but we have absolutely no desire for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2005	I mentioned the proposal to sell the shares in my contribution. Can the Council of State – if it was in agreement with the other public owners, with the other states – imagine that at an early stage one also had such a way out, not because one was to use it alone, but as a system alongside if it were to emerge expeditious situations with the possibility of getting out of the company? Would the Council consider — if he agreed with the other countries — also looking at such a proposal, so as to have such an authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2010	I believe that the authority we have already obtained from Stortinget covers the eventualities that I think may arise. Selling just our small minority share item I think gives a particularly poor return for our ownership. It is difficult to imagine who would be interested in entering such a holding. If an industrial operator was found, to which they may merge or sell, it is fully possible in such an agreement for example. the private shareholders to maintain ownership of the company that purchases SAS, at the same time as the countries go out, even within the mandate we have. So I believe that that authority covers the eventualities that can provide a satisfactory valuation of our shareholding, while ensuring that we carry on the jobs and business of SAS in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2017	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2033	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2042	The proposers point to the importance of better coordination between transport and travel at all levels and make 12 concrete proposals to this effect. Travel industry is a very fast growing industry, where Norway has good opportunities to participate in international growth, and it is important to provide a framework for tourism industries in Norway to take part in this growth. A good deal before transportation and aviation are important pieces here. Travel industry is a composite industry, spread across the country as a whole, and it is particularly characterised by many small and medium-sized enterprises. Travel industries have similar needs with business or other needs. Precautionary care for travel life packages isaman one year in advance is one example of this. Since I've been guilty of being so negative in the last debates, I'll start by saying that I think there's a lot of good suggestions. Yes, it's actually so good suggestions that many of the ones that are proposed here today are already implemented. Coordination between transport strategy and travel life is all of us if at all levels it is important to have a more coordinated travel life policy. Unfortunately, I do not have time to address all the measures, but refer to the Council of State’s response to the individual measures. I'm going to answer for the plural in this. In Destination Norway, many proposals were made to increase the competitiveness of the Norwegian tourism industry and to improve the accessibility of Norwegian travel destinations. The government has strengthened policy coordination and has also established a Travel Policy Coordination Forum at the level of the Office. Both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are included in this Coordination Forum, and increased integration of travel activities naturally forms part of this Coordination Forum. A Joint Committee is divided into the importance of the joint arenas between cruise and land-based tourism and has high expectations for the cruise project that has been launched. In the case of One Stop Security, a working group will be set up to see if there are possible simplification solutions in transit management, including the possibility of continuous delivery of baggage. It is also important to get the price tag if major changes are needed. It is important for the tourism industry with good and stable aviation conditions, but the small airports are not competitive, and the scheme we have when it comes to cross-subsidisation between airports is important for the small ones. The NRK is now authorised to cooperate with the State Road Administration, the Transport Authority and the Router on a new national road cover portal. The new traffic portal will provide consumers with a nationwide travel planner with route and traffic information from bus, train, T-Bahn, tram, aircraft and car traffic, in conjunction with NRK’s nationwide traffic coverage news. The service will be free and free of charge. We red-green thought that this was a good solution. The entire committee supports the work undertaken by the government with the combined ticketing and signage. Similarly, we agree with the aim of the proposers to reduce the number of destinations, and we point out that the government in the Travel Life Strategy Destination Norway has clearly stated that this is an objective to ensure that public rights to travel are used in the most effective way possible. There is also a commitment in the budget proposal from the Government for 2013 to this purpose. When it comes to broadband, there has been a strong expansion under the red-green government, and the coverage is now 99.7 pst, but one is not in the goal. Furthermore, there is a broad majority in the Committee, where all the non-participants of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party support the Council of State that the National Transport Plan is the strategy document covering all sectors and all the needs of the industries, and that there is thus no need for a separate document for travel within the tourism sector. A common plan, no more elaborate plans on the same theme, thinks a wide multiple is the best. There are none of the suggestions that will be voted on here today, but they will all be appended to the meeting book.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2074	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, who initially gave a relatively straightforward description of what is here. There are some differences with regard to part of the proposals and what has been implemented, which the representative Heggø had in mind. Let's start with suggestion No. 7th@item: inlistbox The representative showed that a broadband lift had been made. There is a difference between expanding broadband and expanding a high-speed broadband. This proposal concerns high-speed broadband to the whole country. That's not what's being rolled out everywhere, rather you're on the contrary far in the back yard with respect to speed a lot of places. The proposal of the Progress Party was intended to sew together some of the needs of travel life in the districts. The council was at the NHO a few years ago together with then Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and was given a report on travel life from the NHO. I myself was present and listened when this was presented, and the Council of State said among other things. expression that this was an important document. Fortunately, some things have happened afterwards, among other things. we have got the travel strategy for the government to reduce the number of destinations, which is very sensible, precisely to get more out of the money and the resources we provide. But it's clear that something is problematic. In terms of route information, I really look forward to getting a new portal – a final arrangement, because it has not been the case until now. The county councils have in many ways been responsible for this earlier. When you were in Tromsø and you were going to Bodø, you could find, when you were searching on a page, a place of arrival unknown. We can't have it like that. There are such things that make us have to get neater. When planning arrangements for travel to Norway, travel companies cannot experience a situation where we in Norway change the ferry service week before the start of the tourist season. This actually creates major problems for some industries. It is important to put in place a uniform and better signage of our travel destinations. A travel strategy for travel shows how closely these things relate. It is clear that the tourism industry in Norway is also, to a large extent, a district industry. In Norway, there are long distances, there are fjords to cross, there are mountain crossings and challenges with it, there are trains going on and on – not always after the route, but it is important that we are aware of all of this. That's why we're referring to it as something important in the planning phase of the National Transport Plan, because at least in the national transport plans I've been involved in dealing with in this house, it's not exactly the interaction with travel life that has been going on throughout these stages, rather on the contrary. It's important that we look at this. I appreciate the fact that the case rapporteur says that something is not being voted down. No, but it will not be adopted either. The most important thing is how these matters are followed up in the future. It has been expressed by the government that Norway has a huge potential for travel life. We are in competition with many countries in this sector. Norway is a high-cost country. Norway is not to be sold out as a cheap destination, but we are to sell out as an experience centre – as it is, from fjord to mountain – with everything we have to offer. It's important that we show quality in all terms when we take the prices we do. It's important that we also take care of this in the planning phase. I look forward to seeing how these things will be followed up in the further work. I have great faith that the Council of States is going to follow up some of these things. It was said that some had already been done. The proposals have also been put forward a while ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2095	Travel is important for the whole country, and fortunately tourists from all over the world come to experience our wonderful country. The natural experiences we can provide provide provide the basis for a profitable tourism industry. The ring-fenced effects of tourism activity are high, and therefore it is important to facilitate the industry. The government just presented a travel strategy. I think it is positive that the government focuses on this sector, but the government's plan is very thin – especially on two important points. Firstly, it is weak in terms of nutrition for travel businesses, and secondly, it is poor in transport. This proposal from the Progress Party highlights these issues, for which they should be fully honoured. Transport is important for the tourism industry. A safe shipping route, a world-class road system and a solid railway investment are three important prerequisites for a travel-life-oriented transport effort. It is the transport policy we are pursuing today, which will provide the basis for the competitiveness of the tourism industry. Sole Proprietor, truck driver, bus tourist, cabin owners and boat tourists are all dependent on good accessibility. There is no doubt that the red-green government has failed in terms of trade in this area. The rule of action, which governs the use of oil money, clearly states that we should use the extra space for action for research, education, growth-promoting tax relief and infrastructure. Under the previous bourgeois government nine out of ten went oil crowns for these purposes. Today only two out of ten dollars go to the same thing. It's amazing that the government's parties are trying to hit the table with a number of bulwarks about road construction, when they shake away the huge space of action that oil money has given. Just think about e.g. City ship tunnel. In the most recent study carried out, very different socio-economic benefits are estimated. Some of them are quite obvious – you save time and fuel with the tunnel. But the tunnel will also be an attraction in itself. It will generate boat tourism that benefits the entire region. It will be a good, important and safe transport project, which is also an excellent travel life project. I think it is an important point that the tourism industry contributes to maintaining good activity and employment even outside the major cities. What would Geiranger have been without the tourist industry? Norwegian business needs competitiveness to meet the challenges of the future. We politicians can't decide which travel experience works, or which travel experience that doesn't work, but we can offer good, safe and modern roads by investing in better infrastructure. That's how we lay the foundation for a viable travel life. The proposals of the Progress Party highlight these issues in a very good way. The right supports the inclusion of the proposals in the Protocol for further follow-up and as an important part of the NTP National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2116	Travel industry is a rapidly growing industry, where Norway has good opportunities to participate in international growth. The centre party is happy to be part of a government specializing in travel. The tourism industry is a complex industry, especially characterised by many small and medium-sized enterprises, spread throughout the country. The new tourism strategy, Destination Norway, presented in the spring of 2012, was developed in close cooperation with the industry. The strategy is a follow-up to the previous travel life strategy launched in 2007. Proposals share many of the intentions of the government’s new travel strategy, and there is consensus in the House that tourism is an important industry. For us in the Central Party, working on the strategy has been very important, and we have participated in a series of meetings to get the strategy recorded. The centre party is pleased that the strategy involves a commitment to tourism businesses in the districts. Several full-year jobs are one of the most central goals of government in the new travel strategy, and this is good central party policy. The central party also welcomes the fact that the new travel strategy will strengthen the investment in subnational companies, such as NordNorwegian Travel Life and Fjord Norway, as well as the possibility of the establishment of Fjell Norway as its own sub-sidiary company. In the new strategy, the government is committed to establishing fewer and stronger destinations. The tour operators themselves have given clear feedback that they wanted such a conversion, and the Central Party supports this. Like the industry itself, we believe that this will give destination companies bigger muscles to meet developments in the future. This is also in line with one of the proposals we are discussing here today. What is now important is that we get the momentum of this work and get these mergers carried out that now have to come. The central party agrees with the proposers that better coordination between transport strategy and travel life at all levels is important for a more coordinated travel life policy. We also support the intention of good air services across the country, and in this context will point to the cross-subsidy system between airports. This scheme is essential to maintain a good flight offer throughout the country. We agree with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade that both dividend policy and other issues related to the Avinor framework conditions are continuously assessed in the context of the objective, and good and stable aviation framework conditions. Proposals have good points when they indicate that the availability of Norwegian travel destinations needs to be improved. The Central Party welcomes the development of a national public transport timetable and the continuation of efforts on national tourist routes. We in the Central Party support the Council of State in its assessment that the National Transport Plan is the strategy paper that embraces all sectors and the needs of all industries, and that it is best with a common plan, not more disconcerting plans on the same theme. I also show that this government has had a historic commitment to culture. It is not true, as the representative from the Right – in the post before me – said, that this government has not invested in transport. It's definitely done this government, and we're going to continue that effort. Travel life is 3,3 pst. of Norwegian gross domestic product and employmentettes 160 000 persons in 14 000 enterprises — spread across all municipalities in the country. Until 2030, a close doubling of world tourism is expected, and with the government's new travel strategy, Norway is now on the offensive and better equipped to take advantage of such a massive increase in tourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2142	Infrastructure is the artery of the heart in Norway. The population depends on good infrastructure to get from a to b. Industry and other industries depend on good infrastructure for transporting goods and machinery. Travel life is also very dependent on good infrastructure for both tourists and others to see and experience the country. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that we get a better infrastructure in the country, and suggested increasing the appropriations by 240 million. kr. Overall, we will increase the appropriations for transport measures by 786 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. In addition, the Christian People's Party proposed an infrastructure fund of 50 billion. kr for transportation. Unfortunately, there is not enough organisation and funding in the transport sector. There is a need for governments to become more innovative and varied in their efforts to develop and implement new projects. This will include, inter alia: require increased use of other financial and organisational models, such as: project financing and Public Private Cooperation, OPS. Enough about pure transportation. It is sad when many destinations must close the doors both during winter, because of winter roads or weekly unmanageable amounts of snow, and for the rest of the year due to poor race protection on many road sections. Unfortunately, that's how we have it in many places in Mora and Romesdal and also in the rest of the country. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to become more competent to see the relationship between different needs, whether there is interaction between cruise and land-based tourism, baggage management, the development of travel plans or the need for the tourism industry to interact with different modes of transport in order to develop new ideas and better solutions in Norwegian road construction. Here new ideas have to be thought of, and the Christian People's Party believes that this Document 8 proposal makes a good attempt at it. That is why we support many of the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2155	Travel is one of the fastest growing industries in the world. Although Norway is in a tourist context in what Nesvik, Bredvold, Tåldal, Hoksrud and Sortevik describe as a periphery, we have good opportunities to take part in international growth. The government has chosen to invest specifically in the tourism industry. The choice is based on the potential of the tourism industry for further value creation, the natural benefits of Norway and the importance of the tourism industry as a district industry. On 11 April, I presented the government's new travel strategy, Destination Norway. The strategy, which takes into account new experience-based knowledge, addresses several of the proposals promoted by those DGs. In the strategy, the government promotes many and important measures for increased value creation and productivity in the tourism industry, the creation of several full-year jobs and more robust travel businesses – in particular in District Norway – and the development of several unique and qualitatively good experiences that attract more guests with a high level of willingness to pay. Measures to make Norwegian travel destinations more accessible are only a limited part of the overall scope of action now being undertaken. Framework conditions that are important for the value creation of the tourism industry affect the responsibilities of many sectoral authorities and different public actors at different levels of administration. The Government is committed to coordinating travel and travel policies at and between all levels, at both State and regional level, against the instrument and in the division of labour between authorities and the tourism industry. Destination Norway therefore envisages strengthening the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's work on travel and coordination of travel policies. The Ministry has, among other things: establish a Travel Policy Coordination Forum at the level of the Office. Here, representatives of ten ministries — including the Ministry of Transport — attended the first meeting in June, and bilateral follow-up between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the respective departments related to specific issues is well under way. In addition, political coordination is strengthened. I can assure the proposers that better coordination between transport and travel, at national as well as regional and local level, is an important part of the government's increased commitment to a more coordinated travel policy. The integration of travel life into the planning phase of the national transport plan begins here, with better coordination between the travel and transport authorities. The national transport plan is a strategy document that embraces a wide range of sectors, all modes of transport and the needs of all industries. The national transport plan ensures that the whole of it is seen in a common strategy. All industries — and all other stakeholders — participate in the preparation of the national transport plans, e.g. organise transport authorities around the country where regional business is invited to participate. Travel life is also included. The products of the travel industry are characteristic of their consumption at the place of production. Therefore, as important as the attractiveness of Norwegian tourism products, they are easily accessible to tourists from abroad. The government’s new travel strategy, Destination Norway, therefore promotes – as I said – several measures to increase accessibility to Norwegian travel destinations. The representatives’ proposals for the development of a digital national travel planner, a national programme for comprehensive and good signage of the destinations of travel life, the areas for the interaction between cruise and land-based tourism and the introduction of a continuous shipment of baggage at airports have already been undertaken by the government. The Government is committed to the most efficient use of the funds allocated to public budgets. A central measure in the government's travel strategy is therefore to restructure the country's travel destination companies. I am pleased that the representatives of Nesvik, Bredvold, Treldal, Hoksrud and Sortevik agree that this is a priority work. I can very much agree with the rapporteurs' description of travel life's challenges. This is why most of them are addressed in the government’s new travel strategy, Destination Norway, and that is why it is now important to pay attention to implementing the strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2172	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2186	Only recorded speeches, so far, are Ingrid Heggo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2189	I'll try to put it into words so that I become both the first and last sign-up talk. There is a Joint Liaison Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee which agree to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee. 139/2012 of 13 July 2012 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation No. 911/2010 on the initial exploitation phase of the European Earth Observation Programme, GMES. The aim of GMES is to provide Earth observation data from satellites, oceans, airborne sensors and ground-based measuring stations and to operate systems to facilitate this data for different users. GMES is one of the main areas of EU-ESA cooperation and, together with the Galileo satellite navigation programme, is the main pillar of the EU's space policy. The programme is in the long term intended to contribute Europe to the Global Earth Observation System of Systems, GEOSS. GMES will represent a new phase of satellite Earth monitoring. While so far a single research satellite has been used with limited lifetime, GMES becomes an operational system that guarantees continuous coverage. GMES will significantly increase capacity within marine monitoring, land use monitoring and racial hazard, atmospheric monitoring, and climate change monitoring and air pollution, at sea and on land. This provides an important basis for work on security and preparedness management, sovereignty and environmental and climate policies. There is a joint committee that sees the government's commitment to international space as very positive, and notes that participation in international programmes such as GMES ensures Norway access to technology and good conditions in the market for space-related goods and services. The Committee would also stress that we are aware that the initiative triggers a number of contracts and assignments for Norwegian high-tech enterprises, which are very positive. A Joint Committee, supported by the Foreign Affairs Committee, supports the approval of the EEA Committee’s decision and is aware of the budgetary implications.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2208	Several have not preferred the word on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2222	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2231	Bringing the debate notes to such a long day of debate as we have had today, unfortunately, I have forgotten again my post that I should keep on this matter. But I'm still going to try to make some comments. There is an overall committee that is concerned that efforts to reduce the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark take a long time, and the entire committee wants the most sustainable reindeer management. The Committee refers to the new reindeer management law, which has ecological, economic and cultural sustainability as its objectives. There are large differences in the economic performance of reindeer operations and the reindeer figures are out of proportion to the resource base in some areas. It is challenging to follow approved rules of use where the number of clean does not correspond to the grazing resources. This can be understood when one sees that the increase in the number of pure persons from 2002 to 2010 is 40 pst. Then you see what challenges you're facing. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the Progress Party to ensure that the slaughter of domestic animals is initiated on the Finnmarks wide in order to avoid major animal diseases over the winter. It is important for us to mark it in this case. It is a matter that is not endorsed by the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2242	I would like to pay tribute to the case rapporteur for having led in the pen wise remarks and otherwise also given an impressive comprehensive explanation of the matter today. There is no doubt that the proposers address a situation that is both real and worrying – a situation where the government has had a full focus, especially since the adoption of the new reindeer management law. As stated by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee, a major effort has been made to implement new legislation and to establish and approve rules of use and figures. It has taken time both because some redundancy decisions were lifted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food because they were not likely to be sustainable – new rounds have to take, and time goes by – and because several of the decisions were appealed against. It is indisputable that the figures in parts of Finnmark need to be significantly reduced in order to obtain them in accordance with adopted rules of use. The Purity Act provides for the procedure to be followed if the decisions on operating rules and clean figures are not complied with. Those provisions must be complied with, and I do not like the way in which individual reindeer operators have behaved in this case, by simply allowing the flock to grow until the rules of use are laid down, in order to have something – as they say – to go on when the stock reduction is to be carried out. It's an disloyalty to professional brothers for whom we should have been flattered. Although the work on usage rules and cleaning figures has taken a long time, I would like to congratulate both the management and the Reinhriftstyrelsen for the work that has been done. It has been cumbersome and very demanding. The frameworks are now in place, and the process of adapting the reindeer numbers is under way – to follow the rules of the law. The Council of State has explained that it is a very important task to be given high priority by both the Board of Directors, the Administration and the Department. The Government fraction believes that and will therefore vote in favour of the proposal not being accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2253	I would first like to promote the proposal we have in the matter. The management of the sewage treatment plant has established a maximum permitted number of pure grazing areas. The figures for East Finland show that the real number of tamrein is close to 14 000 higher than the maximum number of tamrein in these areas. Overall, it is only for reindeer grazing areas in Finnmark that there are nearly 33 000 for many domestic areas in proportion to the maximum number laid down. The other reindeer grazing areas in Norway show that the actual number of domestic reindeer complies with, or at the lower edge of, the maximum number of domestic reindeer for the respective areas. The government believes that action should be taken as soon as possible in those areas of Finnmark that are still struggling to reduce the intensity of grazing pressure in relation to the resource base. This is important in order to ensure more sound resource management of reindeer management in relation to pastures. We often see that there are increased conflicts between the reindeer industry and other interests in the Finnish state. In this context, the land needs of the reindeer industry shall not go ahead or at the expense of other economic development or other interests in the same area. During the period from the reindeer management law was dealt with and until now there have been many media reports of serious problems with too high numbers of reindeer in large parts of Finnmark. According to media surveys, Finnmark's range is submerged, and many animals are so debilitated that they do not tolerate being transported for slaughter. The situation is very serious for both the environment and animal welfare. We have to start a massive slaughter of tamrein, especially in the west, so that the number of tamrein can come down to a level that allows us to have a sustainable nourishment. Instead of sustainably developing the reindeer industry in Finnmark, the Storting and the current government choose not to do anything. The government should give priority to caring for the grazing resource base, but instead, today’s government chooses a policy that does not support sustainability. On the contrary, one chooses to deal with Sami rights and requirements and ignores the principle of sustainability. It is a bear service to the reindeer industry in general, but also devastating for all other food establishments. The situation in Finnmark is such that the industry, which receives more than 100 million annually. kr in State subsidies, have been granted exclusive rights. At the same time, it excludes all other developments and business creation that have the right to life. When is the government going to take responsibility for its failed policy? According to the Evening Post, the Minister of Agriculture and Food stated that he would have 38 700 extra reindeer in Finnmark slaughtered as soon as possible. The reason the Council of State gave for this was that it was about the future of the industry, and I fully agree with the Council of State. So in an industry where you recognize that the pure number is too high, you're going to get a subsidy to keep the pure number. Grant schemes are available at all ends – grants are available for cleanness, and grants are also available to reduce purity. There is clearly a misguided government policy. Had the grant scheme ceased, the purity would obviously have fallen by itself very quickly. The National Auditor has also said a little about the sustainability of Finnmark, and I would like to quote a little bit of what the Riksrevision says: ‘The objective of ecologically sustainable reindeer management has not been achieved. Large parts of the Finnmark range are overbeet due to the fact that the reindeer number is not adapted to the grazing basis. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has not ensured a satisfactory reduction in the purity in order to achieve ecological sustainability. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has weaknesses in its target and performance management in the reindeer sector by not being operationalised in the form of performance indicators for the objectives of economic and cultural sustainable reindeer management. This makes it more difficult to achieve the objective of sustainable clean-up. The overall study shows that significant factors also mentioned in Document No. 3:12 [[2003-2004]] So this has been pointed out year after year by the National Audit Office, but you haven't been able to get it down. It is also stated in the report: ‘The investigation further shows that the average slaughter weights and meat yield for the period 2006-2010 do not comply with the limit values on which an ecologically sustainable cut-off value is based.’ It means that there is so little food that you don't get the industry you're going to, and you're up to 20 pst. minor slaughter weight. It also makes the quality of the meat worse. That is why I would ask that we vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the Progress Party, against what is on the part of the government, where nothing has happened. We should start now, before winter comes in, to avoid animal diseases – as we've seen every single year. I think it's time to act. The council has said that he wants the animals slaughtered, and then I expect to see that it is done – that we will see action behind it. The party of progress is on the proposal we have and hopes that the government will turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2285	The representative, Mr Tåldal, then referred to the proposal he mentioned in the introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2288	For the Right, it is also a point that the Act on Reclamation requires the industry to guide through the sub-objectives of ecological, economic and culturally sustainable reindeer management. In the past, the right has clarified that here the concept of ‘organic sustainability’ must be guiding and overriding other objectives. On the right, it has also been pointed out in the past that the recent agricultural notification has been operating with some cross-cutting objectives. The right considers that a key prerequisite for achieving ecologically sustainable operation in all primary industries is profitability. In other words, the desire to achieve ecological sustainability means that the industry is economically viable. The prerequisite for this is once again the development of a rational, market-oriented industry, with a full focus on producing high-quality food, which is sought in a well-paying market. Then I would like to add that the objective of both ecological and economic sustainability is challenged by the reported problems of high purity, poor grazing grounds, major animal health problems and weak market understanding. The right considers that when the objective of cultural sustainability is not well enough defined in the law, this will only reinforce the problems and not be compatible with the two previously mentioned sub-objectives. As with other industries, clean-up operations must take on board the fact that modernising operations by means of technology will also result in the need for fewer hands. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the report presented by the National Audit Office on sustainable management in most areas gives Right in the descriptions we have presented in this Chamber in recent years. We have said that the concept of sustainability is not defined so that it is possible to control them. The National Audit Office requests the objectives of cultural and ecological sustainability to be operationalised in order to allow results to be measured. So the right and the Riksrevision are looking at the problem from two sides, but they're describing the same medicine. I would also like to add that the Food Authority has a special responsibility with regard to animal health legislation, including for the reindeer industry. In fact, although this is an industry that has been protected by the Law on reindeer husbandry, animal health legislation imposes on the Food Safety Authority both to oversee and to seize when necessary. The right does not support the proposal of the Progress Party to go to forced slaughter, because we believe that the legislation underpinning it today should be sufficient to maintain a level of animal health. But it's important for the Right that you continue the good job you've done now, it's important for the Right that you immediately start working on rules of use for winter pastures, winter areas, and it's important for the Right that you look at some kind of land change right, so you can end some of the land disputes at Finnmarksvidda. Then I will address the proposal we have in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2305	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2308	The centre party is concerned that we should have a reindeer industry with ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. The use of resources in an ecologically sustainable way is a prerequisite for industry’s existence and legitimacy. It is important to ensure sound resource management of reindeer management in relation to pastures, and that means that we have to set this as a premise for the industry itself. The centre party has noted that there are large regional differences in the economic performance of reindeer operations and that the reindeer numbers are disproportionate to the resource base in some areas. It is therefore important that measures in the field of clean-up policy should be designed in such a way as to pursue the objective of sustainability of the industry. The centre party is concerned that efforts to reduce the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark take a long time, and is concerned that this important work is being followed up. It is clear that the number of reindeer in Finnmark needs to be significantly reduced in order to comply with the decisions of the Rein driftssteuurt. It is therefore important that this work be given high priority by both the Board of Directors, the Administration and the Ministry, as the Minister of Agriculture has explained in the letter to the Committee. The centre party would stress that success is crucial both for industry and for other interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2319	It is a great privilege to be responsible for such a unique industry as Norwegian reindeer farming is. It's both a unique industry and an industry that is very closely interwoven with a unique culture. This industry has a number of practitioners. It also has many opportunities and some challenges. One of the challenges, where all the parties agree that it is necessary to find a solution, is to bring down the large reindeer number in large parts of Finnmark. The reason is, in particular, that each district has too much grazing pressure in relation to the resource base, and it is usually in the same districts that there is an imbalance between the number of reindeer and the nutrient base. This has contributed to increased conflicts in common grazing areas. The problem with too high a figure has been discussed over time here at Stortinget, without finding a solution. However, even though these are major challenges, I assume that we are coming to an end with the scheme provided for by the 2007 Act on Repurchase Management. But it assumes that everyone, both industry and government, is following up on the obligations they have in this case. It's only when we can all get out of it well. In order for us to be clear on the starting point for the work on redial reduction, I'm going to take a brief summary of the background and the status of the work so far. The 2007 Act on Purification gave the industry itself a responsibility for the sustainability of reindeer management, including: by the fact that the proposed reindeer number should come from the industry itself and be based on the grazing basis of the siidae. The clean figures were then to be finally approved by the Rein driftstyrelsen. In line with the law and the stipulations of the Storting at the time of adoption of the law, the sustainability of the industry's proposed clean-up rate shall be verified. According to the Department’s view, the proposals for a census from some districts were unsustainable. For this reason, the Ministry had to review by repealing some of the decisions. For these siidae, the Reind driftstyrelsen finally had to set new lower reindeer figures. All summer and full-year districts were granted as provided for in their usage rules by the end of 2011. As highlighted both in the proposal and in the report of the National Audit Office, rules of use and purity have not yet been laid down for all common pastures in the Finnmark area. For many, this is highlighted as a reason why the scale adjustment should not be carried out. This, I think, needs to be nuanced. We all agree that the state of unexplained rights is not satisfactory, and that we today have no good tool other than the ordinary legal instrument, which can be used to clarify this. This issue was discussed and assessed in the latest farm communication. The conclusion was that the government proposed to give the right to land change competence to determine such rights. This joined Stortinget. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has discussed further the arrangements for allowing the land change right to clarify the right conditions for reindeer management with the Norwegian Reinbriftssamers Landsförbund and Sametinget. But I would warn you not to put the cause of difficulties in getting down the reindeer figure that we need a tool to clarify the rights conditions in these winter grazing areas. Firstly, it would be possible to set new figures if the assumptions were subsequently changed. Secondly, there is every reason to believe that the problems associated with these common pastures will be reduced when the reindeer reach a sustainable level. One issue that has been challenging in 2012 is the treatment of all complaints raised in the adopted figures. This is a right which the side shares have under the Administration Act, but we cannot imagine that this has been very resource-intensive both in the administration and in the ministry. In 2012, the Board of Directors has paid particular attention to the handling of complaints that have been addressed to the adopted reindeer figures and to the adoption of reduction plans. The management of the sewage treatment plant sent out early in the autumn notice to the districts concerned that they had to draw up reduction plans, with deadlines now in the autumn. Here the industry was given the opportunity to propose how the reduction should be distributed internally. There were no proposals from any districts on reduction plans. Therefore, the cleaning company sent out a pre-announcement with an overview of how much each individual should reduce. The Sewage Act of 2007 also has completely different sanctions options than the previous law. The possibility of sanctioning in the absence of legally adopted decisions is necessary in most areas of society. It has also been announced that this option will be used if it turns out to be necessary, which I hope will not happen too often. It shall not be concealed that the work of the Rein driftssteurt is currently in the final phase of being very challenging. I have recently met with the board, and this was clearly expressed by them during the meeting. Despite this, I have expectations that the Reind driftstyrelsen will be able to carry out the demanding work they are up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2349	The thing we're discussing right now is not exactly new. Already in 2003, the National Audit Office began to look at this issue. They also followed up the cases in 2008, 2009, 2010, and they follow it up now from 2011 to 2012. Still these problems are not solved, on the contrary, the file at this time has increased by 40 pst. When will the Council of State go from word to action?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2354	As the representative points out, it is a demanding matter. There are many different interests, and there are many cross-cutting interests and sometimes strong opinions. In sum, the job that the Reinhriftstyrelsen has been assigned to manage on our behalf under the Reinhriftgesetz of 2007 is labor-intensive and tough to achieve goals. But the Storting and the Government have given the task to the Rein driftstyrelsen, and I expect them to follow up and use the wisdom needed to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2359	So the chord change is over. The speakers who will have the floor in the debate will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2364	It has been decided that we should have a reindeer farm that should be ecologically, economically and culturally viable. We read in the Council of State's assessment in a letter of 25 October 2012 that the efforts to reduce the reindeer figure are highly prioritised by both the Reinhrift Board, the Management Board and the Department, and it is clarified that it is decisive for industry and for other interests that this work is successful. But in spite of these beautiful words, we can't just say that this seems to be successful to some degree, despite the fact that one has more tools that can be used to bring down the file. For example, the Food Authority has: the responsibility for ensuring that rules relating to animal welfare are observed, and I am surprised that animal welfare organisations have not done the same to this problem that they have done when it concerns fur animals and operators there who have not taken care of animal welfare. The National Audit Office’s investigation shows that neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Ministry of Food, nor the Board of Purity nor the State Reef Administration have developed plans or strategies for the preparation and follow-up of the reduction plans. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food now needs to get up and make sure that this is put in place. This is not only what the proposers require, but also what the National Audit Office points to as far as the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is concerned. They have not met this. It is also necessary to ensure that clean-up systems are put in place to ensure the real data base and to ensure that the regulation of maximum allowable numbers of tamrein is correct. This case, as I said, has been going on for very many years. We've come to 2012, and the problems are still not solved. On the contrary, the stock at this time has increased by nearly 40 pst. So we have a 10-year anniversary. Large parts of the Finnmark range are oversized as a result of a high integer. The goal of resilient reintroduction is far from being realised, but it is accepted by a government that praises itself for having put in place the laws of nature. We stop a lot of important societal measures as a result of this law, too many, claims more. But here it's clear. We also support the UN's decision to establish an international natural panel to provide knowledge of earth's natural disasters and ecosystems and to propose new policies. From the Norwegian side it is a priority task to speed up the natural panel, and the government will work to actively support the UN Environment Programme on its future work. Then we still have such a thing going on over the years in the most vulnerable part of our nature – and it is allowed to continue for so long. The Council of State and his department must ensure that this matter is not allowed to escalate further in negative terms, but show the power and the results, otherwise he must leave the job to others who are able to get it in place as it should be. Now is the time for action in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2394	This is just a brief explanation of vote by the Christian People's Party and the Progressive Party. We have our own proposal, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox But from both the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, we want to subsidize proposal No. 2, from the right, that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2399	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2405	Then Stortinget will vote in case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2412	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-17, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 18, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 19-24, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party The President notes that the Roman Numeral Decisions under the respective framework areas are missing. They have now been distributed as their own pressure in the seats of the representatives. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adapt the fee revenue to the operation of the Brønn Island Health Registers by incorporating the level of fees in line with the self-financing principle during 2013.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2447	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20-24, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government requests during the spring 2013 session to submit proposals for a statutory, fully-fledged net pay scheme applicable to those who meet today’s criteria to be covered by the refund ceiling of DKK 198 000.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government requests the presentation of the revised budget for 2013 to propose an adjustment to the reimbursement ceiling for seafarers’ employment, taking into account the increase in wages and prices from 1 July 2008 until spring 2013.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government through the Innovation Norway mission document for 2013 to ensure that 5 million are set aside. SEK for the upgrade of films related to the Epcot Centre in Disneyland.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the law on the marketing of raw fish and the law on participation with a view to modernisation and simplification.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a notification of flooding during 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2483	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the appropriateness of being a member of the International Whaling Commission in view of the countering of Norwegian interests in the whaling matter.’ [[IWC]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2497	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–15, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present during 2013 a strategy for improving the efficiency of agricultural management so that the total cost of red tape can be gradually reduced and more resources released to support food production.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy for the red tape of the agricultural industry’s framework conditions presented during 2013.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the development and marketing of niche and special agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the competitive aspects of the current system of agricultural information offices.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to enter into negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to start a review of the rates of duty on agricultural products with a view to reducing the rates of duty on goods not produced within the Norwegian import protection system.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government requests the adjustment of the reindeer management agreement to follow the calendar year and the entry of the negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’;» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2546	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8, 16 and 17, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy for better coordination of marine research with the fishing industry so that the needs of the industry are more focused than is the case today. The strategy will be presented during the 1st half of 2013.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked by the government through its ownership of Statskog SF to oblige the company to intensify the arrears of the forest properties and other real estate owned by the State Forest SF today.» Proposal No. 17 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2575	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–7, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes to the innovation instruments of Norway, making them more nationwide and accessible to all applicants.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy for red tape on the framework conditions of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The strategy will be presented during the 1st half of 2013.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests a review of the excise duty burden imposed on the fisheries and aquaculture industry for the purpose of cleaning up and reduction.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking to facilitate growth in the aquaculture industry through the establishment of new concessions’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the concession provisions for farmed salmonids in order to grant pure trout concessions in areas where the wild species is particularly vulnerable.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2614	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide, as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2013, a cost overview and a plan of progress to stop pollution from the mines closed in Sulitjelma so that new ore extraction can begin.’; The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2630	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present its own report on industrial policy and conditions in the future in 2013’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e2644	It will then vote on the position of the Committee under A, Framework Area 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e4477	The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e4489	It is then voted on the Committee's position under B, Framework 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e5131	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e5142	It will then vote on the Committee's position under C, Framework Area 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e6387	The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e7651	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e7726	Alternatively, between the position II of the Committee and proposal No. 2 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. «The cancellation consents to the government being authorised to dispose of the shares of SAS AB.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e7744	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party 9-12, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 9-12, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a national programme for the uniform and good signage of travel life destinations.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a better flight offer through good, stable and long-term aviation framework conditions, such as: lower air charges and reduced profits from Avinor AS.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to review and assess the number of destinations in relation to the appropriateness and achievement of the objectives of the coordination of travel life activities.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: 'The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to Law No 10 June 1977. 82 on motor travel in land and watercourses and, where appropriate, other laws to increase the authority of municipalities to permit the use of motorised means of arrival in outland areas in connection with travel life destinations.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e7784	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-8, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to integrate travel to a greater extent in the planning phase of the National Transport Plan, through increased coordination between the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for cooperation solutions between the public and private sectors to be implemented by the government in order to ensure the implementation of local infrastructure measures relevant to the development of the destination’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks it to develop a digital national travel planner for all modes of transport, with ticket booking information and system.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of areas for interaction between cruise and land-based tourism and measures to facilitate combined travel.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a continuous shipment of baggage, simplified customs treatment and security controls at airports for simpler domestic voyages.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of opening times on seasonally-focused roads and the implementation of several racial protection measures to travel life destinations.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of a national broadband lift with a high-speed broadband target throughout Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop its own transport strategy for the Norwegian tourism industry, which is submitted to the Stortinget before final decision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e7866	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of Right There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the slaughter of domestic animals on Finnmarksvidda is started in order to avoid major animal diseases beyond the winter of 2012/2013.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e7896	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:2 S [[2012-2013]] The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-12.ana.ud323e7921	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
