ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e160	The representatives Sverre Myrli, Ivar Kristiansen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Tore Nordtun, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. One, two, three, four and five are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, at the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be divided into two sections, so that the budget chapters are first dealt with under the framework area 3 under the Ministry of Culture and Innst. 121 S for 2012–2013 and then Framework Area 2 under the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Knowledge and Innst. 123 S for 2012–2013, Innst. 120 S for 2012–2013 and Innst. 142 S for 2012–2013 on the redistribution of child benefit. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e238	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each of the two debates be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that in both debates there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that the speaker on the list, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e249	The red-green government is now presenting its eighth cultural budget in a row with historical increase in the budget. The advent of fairytale growth has brought culture into the elite division of politics and has given it increased status and recognition. The red-green cultural promise is an ambition for Norway to become a leading cultural nation. We have many European nations to reach for, but the great source of inspiration has been France which, under the socialist Minister of Culture Jack Lang in the 1980s, revitalized French cultural policy. This occurred through a considerable increase in the resources for the production and distribution of artists and cultural institutions, the construction of new cultural buildings and by supporting parts of the cultural industry with which the country had previously not wanted to engage; film, record production and publishing. Over the course of a few years, they have doubled their efforts in the cultural budget. Our promise has clear parallels to the French promise of the 1980s. Like them, we have had a huge increase in appropriations. In eight years we have also doubled our cultural budget. We have built large cultural institutions in Stavanger, Kristiansand, Namsos and now in Notodden. In a few years, the capital will have another great and modern cultural institution with the new national museum. Norwegian film has had powerful additions. Never before have more Norwegian films been launched than in recent years, and never has the Norwegian film audience seen more Norwegian films than now. The equivalency of musical genres has been an important objective of the red-green cultural policy. Jazz, rock and folk music have never experienced a similar bet before. This is an economic boost, but most of all it is a status promise – a signal that no one should be holding the hat in their hand. The same can be said of dance art, which has finally received the attention it deserves. A separate scene for dance has been realised and a separate grant scheme for free dance groups is in place. The last thing we have decided to increase further in the 2013 budget. We have now also put in place the acting and dancing alliance, which is a pilot project that will help improve the living conditions of these artists. Like Jack Lang and the French socialists who were concerned with cultural diversity and the democratization of culture, we also want to ensure that. For this reason, former Minister of Culture Trond Giske took the initiative for a year of cultural diversity, and therefore former Minister of Culture Anniken Huitfeldt presented the Culture Communication, inclusion and participation – in both cases to great resistance from the opposition, which clearly believes that politicians should not have views on how culture is distributed to the Norwegian people, and which is behind a principle of arm's length distance. The fact is that the creative art has never had freer and better conditions than under the red-green government. While producing more plays, more films and music than ever before, we need to be able to demand that this reaches out to more people and different social teams than before. In the future, the geographical spread of the cultural crowns will become even more important. We now have good and professional national cultural institutions in most areas. It gives us opportunities and space for action to turn the bet out of the country, into small institutions and free groups. This applies to movies, opera, theater and music. We believe that when the state spends so much money on culture, it is important that as much of the population as possible have the opportunity to experience art and culture. The Health Survey in Nord-Trundelag shows that proximity to cultural institutions is essential for their use. Large consumers of culture live in small and large cities. We actually believe that culture should not be reserved for rich people with the right postal address. In the past, intellectual cultural scientists and now, in the last few days, a right-liberalist think tank have criticised the red-green government for being a money machine bare for ideological will. Is it to be exposed to ideological will when the government ensures the breadth and diversity of literature policy and will not allow market forces to control the publication of books, such as books. The progress party will? Is it to be exposed to ideological will when we make a massive effort on culture to give people more and better cultural experiences as a counterbalance to all the material values to which they are exposed? Is it to be exposed to ideological will when we encourage a small Sami built to develop its festival by giving it node status? The answer to these questions is obviously no. It might have been interesting to know if it's ideologically wrong to give rock and rhythmic music increased status, that more dancers can now live from their art or that North Norway has got its own symphony orchestra. Culture policy is obviously one of the areas where there can be the greatest change in whether we get a dark blue government. One thing is that the Progress Party wants billions of dollars in the appropriations, but it is so serious that they want to remove the state regulations that ensure, among other things. Norwegian language and literature and not least the scholarships of the creative artists. How can the Right at all think of cooperating with a party that will hit Culture-Norway in such a dramatic way as the Advance Party's cultural policy does? How can Right cooperate with a party that will liquidate and privatise the perhaps the most important cultural institution in Norway, namely the NRC? Or is it maybe so that the Right Sea wants a slow death for the NRK, because they won't say anything about the license funding of the NRK. Right has the last week in this room almost until the cramps have taken them, wanted to appear like the big sports party, and honor them for it. But how can Right cooperate with a party that will weaken the main source of income for Norwegian sport, namely the gambling monopoly of Norwegian Typing? The Workers' Party is very pleased that we have received such broad support for our national meeting decision to change the key and ensure that sport receives stable and predictable funding in the future. That the Right in its draft budget is even more eager than the Government to realize the change, we actually think it's pretty neat. But dark clouds rest behind us as long as we do not clarify the future of Norwegian Typing and what is a Right/Fremskrit Party policy in this area – and not least in cultural policy in general. For cultural life and for cultural policy in the future, it is important that, in the last budgetary debate during this big period, we actually get a clarification of what will become a civil government's cultural policy, because it is completely floating in the blue. We don't know if we're going to get a further cultural promise. We don't know what's going to become the NRK. We don't know what's going to be the future of Norwegian Tipping, which is the main source of funding for Norwegian sport, because there they crack in every direction. And in some areas we have to believe, in fact, that the Progress Party, if they are to be an important partner for the others, has to get through. That's why it would have been very interesting for both of us sitting here, and not least for Norwegian cultural life, that we are now getting to know what civil cultural policy is. What I can assure those who sit here in the hall – and also Norwegian cultural life – about is that if we get a still red-green government, we will continue the cultural promise and continue to lift Norwegian cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e294	I hear that the representative says a lot about the policy of the Progress Party, but what I can tell the representative is that with the policies of the Progress Party everyone in Norway will experience movies and television, including visually impaired ones. For us, it is very important that everyone should be able to experience this beautiful medium. We have seen how far the Danes have come with visual acuity. We've recorded this in the government party budget, but we understand that it's a long way inside. What will government parties do to enable everyone in Norway to experience television and films, including those with visual impairments? - I'm thinking of visual acuity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e301	It has actually been important for the red-green government to reach out to everyone, and then also to the disabled, both visually impaired and hearing impaired. But there's one important prerequisite for imposing these things on the NRK, and that's that the NRK is a state institution, which you can actually impose on you to do such tasks. And as long as the Progress Party wants to wind up the NRK monopoly, wants to privatize the NRK, does not want us to actually have such an important cultural institution as the NRK, it becomes unlikely that you have a fantastic embrace of visually impaired and hearing impaired, because you have no means to use it. We actually have tools to use, and we're working to give these groups the opportunity and access to both film and other things. But it'll take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e306	I thank the representative Gjul for a dedicated post. She spent the last half of the article asking what would become the cultural policy of a possible new government on the non-socialist side, and ended that part by spending 20 seconds talking about the red-green cultural policy after the election. It was, in short, that one should continue the cultural promise. So in essence, my question to the representative Gjul is: is that what is the red-green cultural policy after 2013, or is it something more? Is it just the money, and that's it, or do you have anything else to tell?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e311	I thank Hope for actually giving me an opportunity to talk about red-green cultural policy. I experience that I used two thirds of my post first to draw the ideological lines, among other things. to the inspiration we have drawn from the French Socialist Party as to what is our cultural policy. In the cultural promise, there is much more than just money. These include: That we're going to get more creative artists, that's that we're going to reach more parts of the country, more people and more social teams, that's that we're going to bet on new genres. We have built a large new cultural institution in Oslo through the Norwegian Opera, and now we're making sure that we also get small institutions around in Norway that contribute to opera art. And that's how I can keep going. It is this cultural policy that we have started, builds steps forward, and we want to continue. In it there is much more than money, it lies among other things. significant redeployments to help the entire Norwegian people enjoy the promise we make.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e316	I noticed that the representative Gjul was concerned with the ideological, and in that context she pointed to much that was about dissemination to all groups and about participation for all groups. But the opposition's criticism of the government of the state is not about it, despite the fact that that is what the Workers' Party largely responds to. The opposition's criticism is the leaders involved in programming – I repeat programming. I think I have to repeat it many times, because that's what's the main content. The response of the working party is often that one should not interfere in the individual event or production. But is it that one believes that it is ideologically right to put overall leads that are also going to permeate the content, as shown by several propositions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e321	We also had this debate on Monday, and I just have to admit, Thommess, that you're trying to represent yourself as a cultural-political ideologist in this area, but I still have some problems seeing what are the big dividing lines besides that you're criticizing the red-green government in this area. Because once you've been in government, you've also put in place leadership for cultural institutions around the country to reach out to children and young people or to reach out to the wider population. And that's what we do too. Then a discussion will take place, for example: whether it is natural for the Norwegian Opera to mark the 2014 anniversary. In fact, we believe it is natural that cultural institutions such as the National Theatre and the Norwegian Opera, which in a way were part of our nation-building, should also be involved and contribute to the anniversary. That it may be some form of programming, we have difficulty seeing, and I also have problems believing that the Right believes the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e326	The President must remember that all speeches in the Grand Duchy must be addressed to the President. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e332	The self - criticism from the government was quite clear, and self - criticism often comes from the heart. Culture must be free and independent of political governance, which we have been to many times. To many, it seems to be the opposite of government policy. Voluntaryness and commitment must be the driving force behind all cultural development, including in the municipalities. There will always be room for both professionals and amateurs in the field, so that culture reaches as many people as possible across the country, and not just in Oslo. Furthermore, a free and independent press is a prerequisite for democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law. In order to ensure competition and diversity in the media, freedom of establishment in the media industry is essential. The Advance Party will – as the previous speaker pointed out – reduce the NRK licence and in the long term remove it completely. Now the NRK has employed a new head – a new director – who comes from areas of the media industry that have been exposed to large conversion jobs. So we have great expectations for the new boss, and we want to see a development that makes the NRK more dynamic in the future. Decentralisation and funding are important to avoid undue concentration of power within culture. In the case of a cultural sector, this would mean a greater spread of funding away from heavy public funding. The Advance Party's alternative budget provides for increased funding of the cultural sector through both general tax incentives and by stimulating increased contribution to culture. Figures show that the effect of tax relief alone will ensure that, in sum, the cultural sector is provided with more money with the alternative solutions of the Progress Party. This illustrates how a modern and forward-looking policy with reduced public consumption can make a strong contribution. Voluntaryness, children and young people come first in the cultural policy of the Progress Party. Cultural policy has been and will continue to be based on volunteering, children and young people, and we need to get it out into Municipality-Norway. It shall not be governed by Oslo; it shall not be governed by the Council of Culture, the Ministry of Culture or the Stortinget. It shall be developed in the municipalities. Voluntaryness is important at several levels. Action can be taken on health, democracy training and concrete contributions into the municipality of Norway, and in particular on children and young people. The party of progress is opposed to an unnecessary bureaucracy. Heavy bureaucracy is not caring for the large, voluntary sector that we are now talking about. I note that unfortunately the sector has challenges to do so today. The VAT compensation scheme imposes additional paperwork on organisations. The Progress Party will replace it with a purely VAT exemption, a smaller bureaucracy and simplify the daily lives of those who work in the municipalities, so that they do not use accountants and lawyers to satisfy their demands. Professional actors also face major challenges. Then I think about newspapers and books, which have an existing VAT exemption for paper versions. Why is that? Well, it's to strengthen the Norwegian language and the Norwegian literature. This government, on the other hand, treats e-news and e-books as something quite different than the same newspapers and books that come in paper format. I think e-books and e-news are here to stay. So this is very, very strange for me. This has led to the curious outcome that the e-news have to pay VAT of 25 pst., while the paper versions must not. Many might think that this is going backwards into the future. What about a full equal treatment of paper and e versions? I still think that's for the best for the Norwegian language. And what about facilitating living diversity in the voluntary sector, by precisely improving the framework conditions, reducing the paper mill, providing for VAT exemptions and removing taxes on voluntary activity? Many people put a great deal of work into volunteering around teams and organizations all over the country. It is wrong that this work should be charged, and it is difficult to explain externally. The Progress Party has a proposal to increase the deduction limit to NOK 25 000 for gifts to non-governmental organisations. It is clear that this could have been of great help. The government boasts, as we have heard before, of the budget of the year – that it is the biggest initiative for the voluntary sector ever. The government includes the VAT compensation of major actors such as the Red Cross and the Rescue Company as part of the Cultural Promise in this cultural budget. But VAT compensation does not belong in this calculation. It's only the Ministry of Finance that can make that calculation, but the culture out there doesn't understand it. This does not give a proper picture of the commitment to volunteering within culture. But I am in favour of starting work on simplifying the contribution to the voluntary sector and believe that this must have a high priority. At the same time, it is also positive to look at the collection register and Freefonds. Art and culture have a self-esteem. I distance myself from the political approach of the government parties, where art and culture are widely regarded as an instrument for achieving policy objectives in a number of social fields. This is regrettable. And now you've started using new words like "programming" the culture. The Progress Party wants a cultural life that gives new impetus and stimulates creativity and innovation outside Oslo. The Progress Party will have a cultural policy that strengthens our cultural roots and manages our cultural heritage, while stimulating creativity. Cultural policy must help to strengthen both professional and voluntary cultural life. Culture must then be free and independent of this programming from the government. In Norway, we have a comprehensive voluntary sector of which we are proud, which means a great deal of commitment to many people. There will always be room for both professionals and amateurs in this field, but it is not an advantage to maintain a position that professional practice in the field of culture should take place at a completely different level than any other cultural exercise. I would like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e378	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e383	Culture shall be free and independent and without political governance, says the representative Ib Thomsen, and he shall also record in his statement that they will withdraw the licence in the NRC. We know they want to privatize the NRK and put the control of the NRK into this room. It is alarming that the Progress Party will instruct the content of Advent children's television and require more focus on Jesus. One should therefore not be able to say that cultural institutions should take into account equality, or that disability should be integrated into cultural life, as otherwise in society – but Jesus should be governed into children's television. Can the representative explain how such a proposal for direct detailed management of child TV content can be consistent with the policy of the Progress Party? Don't you totally break this with the arm's length distance principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e392	As the representative probably knows, the NRK has a very special role. As the representative is probably also aware, we have a special role to play in terms of being ombudsmen. Should we not point out when our cultural heritage begins to burst and go in the wrong direction, and when we believe that the NRK has a special role in conveying just part of our cultural heritage? We have never said that we want to go into detailing the editorial in the NRC – then we might have intervened in completely different areas – but we believe that the NRC should take into account what viewers and residents in Norway want to see. We believe that the NRK should take into account part of our cultural heritage – precisely the last proposal we have made. There's no physical suggestion. We've taken it up because we think the NRK should also look at the religious broadcasts of Christmas, which we think is quite natural that the NRK is part of as a public broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e399	It was very good and that I appreciated in the post, among other things. this with the voluntary nature and importance of it, and not least the fact that art and culture have their own value. At least that means to me that you can't commercialize too much of it – if you have a basic attitude to it. My question concerns the Norwegian Opera in Oslo. We've built this magnificent building, and it's used a lot. It has become a magnet both for the Norwegian people and not least for foreigners coming to the city. The opera should be more than a conference centre, and whose art and culture have their own value, one should really be able to make big performances without having to have problems with the economy. What is the background for the Spring Party cutting into the Opera budget for 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e408	There is no doubt that the Opera has become a great building. The content of the Opera is fantastic – then I think about the setup – and it has become one of Oslo's biggest tourist attractions. People come from all over Europe even to see performances. This summer I visited one day at the Opera and got a glimpse that was very, very positive. The reason why the Progress Party will cut the Opera is that we believe that the potential for revenue at the Opera is much greater than the revenue is today. We saw that when the Opera moved from Youngstorget to where it is today, the revenue increased by 50 pst, and we believe that the potential is greater. When we know that Figaro's wedding was set up ten times and went for the full house all ten times, we believe there's room to set up several performances of Figaro's wedding. What I'm saying is that more popular pieces will make your own income increase. That's why we want to reduce the transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e419	I would have liked to have followed up the track that the representative Awake! was in on whether the NRK and the Progress Party were trying to control. My question should be about something else. For SV, it is an important matter that we have a variety of newspapers in the whole country. We see that a lot of these are totally dependent on the press support they get today. The Progress Party proposed to cut the press support. My question to the representative Thomsen is then: Does he think that the diversity of newspapers we have today will survive with a reduction in press support?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e428	When it comes to this with the NRK, as the representative was at the outset, we find it exciting that we now get a new director who is used to switching in the media industry. When it comes to newspapers, we don't think we're going to be able to maintain the width you have today. We believe that while facilitating equal treatment in terms of VAT, we also need to look at the challenges the newspapers face, which the government does not take into account at all. They will not treat the electronic version as the paper version and live in the belief that a paper newspaper will last forever. That is what we believe to be a clever sight. We believe that the government should have been much more on the offensive in terms of non-discrimination between e-newsmen and paper newspapers. We believe that the government should be more concerned with the Norwegian language – to preserve it – than with following the Ministry of Finance in one and all and will not treat paper newspapers and e-newsmen in the same way. We find that regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e435	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e438	We're going to the end of an eight-year period of red-green government. The signals are clear, it's about a tough course that's about more money, centralisation and stronger control. It also applies this year. The money has been largely on the right and the former government parties from the Bondevik II government. Increased allocations to the cultural area were also a premise for our government's communication on culture. The second characteristic of cultural policy in these years is that the state has become more dominant and a clearer power factor in cultural life. The right has pointed this out in each budget debate. A country that is increasingly present through increased appropriations will automatically have a more dominant position. Increased appropriations should therefore have been followed by policies that spread power, minimise the risk of increased appropriations and increase the concentration of power, political correctness and taste. The government has not been very responsive to this. On the contrary, the government has pursued a policy that is actively moving in the opposite direction, namely greater power concentration and clearer state governance. The characteristic is that fewer and fewer people have got an increasingly large part of the cake to walk with. The organisation of the Council of Culture, the more comprehensive role of the National Library and the merger of the House of Films are good examples of this. In addition, the economic sphere of government is governed by the letters of allocation, of course an increasing proportion of cultural activities. As the government budget's appropriations increase and the drive for enhanced governance dialogue, this is about power over cultural life. The main dividing line in Norwegian cultural policy is about the handling of state power and dominant position. The right view of cultural life as part of society, where it is particularly important to have independence from the sphere of public authorities. In our opinion, cultural life should rather be a counterweight, a critical factor, or at least have the integrity and free position we want for civil society. Government governance in combination with comprehensive funding leads to dependence that over time undermines the volunteering and integrity of the broad cultural policy, i.e. that it undermines the autonomy of civil society. In art policy, it opens the way for political justice and undermines the room for criticism, diversity and alternative directions. If you are programmed for a small institution, maybe with five to ten own productions in a year, and you really have to meet four to six public expectations, the space for other directions on the programme profile will be really gone. The right and the rest of the opposition want a different main course. For the Right, this is not about the amount of money, but about ways to distribute the money, about government organisation, about targeted work to strengthen the independent position of cultural institutions and actually about using the whole country. In the opinion of the Right, increased government appropriations must be accompanied by a clear policy for increased alternative income, i.e. private funds from individuals, companies, foundations or funds. This year, as in the past, the right is proposing a greater tax credit for gifts, and we want a more positive and active policy that demonstrates that private contributors are welcome as important contributors to ensure diversity and independence. Every time we discuss private contributions, the government parties say they are happy for the money as a supplement to the public contribution. However, some mechanisms in the instrument that strengthen this will not be available. It can be a controlling factor in the state’s appropriations and thus bring some money into the system in which the state does not have control – i.e. the state’s influence is being reduced. The absence of policies to strengthen private involvement is striking and increasingly tactile. An example of a number of instruments that the Right wants to implement is the gift enhancement scheme. In the debate on visual art on Monday, the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party presented a proposal for a gift-enhancing scheme aimed at the art museums' purchasing activities – a well-chosen and carefully-chosen example. Even here, where the gift-enhancing scheme would easily be managed according to the institutions' own guidelines, the Council of Cultural States rejected the monotonous scheme. After all, the State contribution would follow its own priorities and fall outside the sphere of government influence. Yeah, that's exactly what was meant. The state councils are here defending the state sphere of power almost on reflex. The state's money is in her world better money than the private, simply because the state's money can be accompanied by her values as a condition. Gender equality, children and young people, school bags, national jubilees and integration accentuate the primary course of cultural life after her pipe. All are excellent approaches, but overall, and leading to a main government funding, it is very doubtful both from the point of view of freedom of expression and the question of what contributes to good artistic processes – especially in a time like ours with such great upheavals. In Monday's debate, the Minister of Culture presented an article in the Contemporary of Tom Remlov on artistic programming and the social tasks of the institutions. The example was intended to defend the government governance dialogue through the letters of assignment. For me, this reference underlines that the Workers' Party – and this was confirmed in and of itself by the representative Gjul today – does not fully understand the issues we are talking about. Of course, leaders of cultural institutions will not operate their programming independently of the society in which they operate. The difference between the Right Party and the Labour Party is that the Right Party believes that the Programme Creator is to determine the topics to be taken into account, quite independently of any governmental menu or instruction, while the Workers Party will also provide a main course for the content, based on its own, and therefore the country's, perception of the important value priorities of the time. So cultural life as an independent vote has to be subdued or organized according to value-related objectives. In this context, the Minister of Culture should note that the same Tom Remlov and the Opera's own stakeholder organisation, NTO, despite the risk of lack of government funding, has now received enough, and that over the years they have given clear warning that government governance through the letters of allocation is now tactile and artistically counterproductive. In this budget, the right is following up the initiative on the free field. Here lies a great potential for artistic development and exciting entrepreneurship that points to the society of the future. Right wants to use these forces to strengthen artistic impact, artistic diversity and development, preferably across genres and platforms. This initiative is also inserted from our side into a power perspective. Where the institutions are owned, have their governments appointed from, and are not yet fully financed by public funds, the free field is further away from the State's gradually relatively long arms and through it has a stronger integrity to protect. Right wants to further develop the mechanisms linked to the annual grants and the basic funding. It should be possible to build a career and an artistic activity regardless of state ownership. Establishments such as the Vissie Theatre or Trondheim’s fantastic Circa Theatre should have a completely different room for development than the government has given them, despite large increases in the allocations. But then they are not checked either, as is the case, for example, for the node institutions where the government ensures that the majority of the board of directors is in place. The right will take the whole country into service. There has been a strong centralisation of the large institutions in Oslo, which, of course, have also meant centralisation of power. The best example might be to find in film policy. The government ran through the merger of the film house business. I regret that the Right agreed to that at the time. We thought that Giske wanted to build up the film environments in other parts of the country, so that was not the case. The regional film effort has been followed up to a very small extent. The result we see through the clear language of statistics – most of the money goes to the Oslo area. The right here makes clearer changes in its priorities. It is also sad that the government has not provided for the follow-up training that the Film Institute had. It is evidence of poor ambitions for the film that neither the government has put in place acceptable economic conditions for film education nor a master's degree that has been strongly sought. In later contributions from the Right-wing Representatives, we will also address sports policy, intellectual protection and cultural schools. I want to come back to media policy myself. In addition, the Right-Left supports proposal No. 34, and I'm taking up the suggestions that we're on ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e482	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e488	The opposition parties' proposals for cultural budgets are very different. There is considerable disagreement about cultural policy in the years that come if the dark blues win the elections next autumn. Because while the Right will increase the appropriations for culture, the Advance Party wants to cut 16 pst. by the budget, which corresponds to just over 1.5 billion. kr. Right-wing plans for culture are more similar to the red-green cultural policy than to the potential coalition partner The Progress Party's cultural policy. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, therefore, the cultural pot must be cut by 1524 million. kr, these are mainly to be taken from the Council of Culture and the institutions. The Progress Party will make a big cut in institutional support. Is this a cultural policy we can expect from the Right in a possible dark blue government, or will the disagreement lead to blue chaos?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e493	A blue government is also going through a debate to find out which priorities to set. I feel confident that the right side will place great emphasis on the cultural effort. For the Right, culture is very important. It is very important for us to take care of the cultural heritage perspective – we share that view with the Progress Party. It is important for us to take care of the perspective of power that I tried to describe – we also share that view with the Progress Party. But it is also important for us to maintain a high level of contribution to cultural life in general, and there we are in line with the government in terms of appropriations. We believe that this is important for many reasons, but especially because it is about having a good cultural policy in a small country that everyone can grow on. Right will put a lot of emphasis on it. A great Right will ensure a good cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e498	After the Monday debate on visual art, which the representative Thommess followed up in his reply to the representative Gjul and in his intervention here, I would like to ask the representative a question about the government's over-management of cultural life. I want to challenge the Thommess: Does the representative Thommess think it is unreasonable to demand cultural life and institutions that they also have to reach a wider group of people and audiences, knowing that they spend billions of dollars of community money on culture? Is it over-control when you have expectations that there are not only highly educated people in the big cities who get access to cultural services but also ensure that culture reaches a larger part of the population? Is it more politically correct governance when the representative of the Progress Party in his post here instead said that they want the Norwegian Opera to play Figaro rather than any other set-up they had planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e503	The representative Simensen once again demonstrates that the Workers' Party does not understand what we're talking about, because they give us opinions that we don't have. We believe it is quite obvious that we should have a policy that is about disseminating to broad groups and perhaps groups that do not. We believe, of course, that we should have a policy that allows participation to be as broad as possible, but we believe that it is unfortunate, direct errors and, contrary to principles relating to freedom of expression and the desire for culture as a driving force in a society, that we should give leadership to the framework for the creation of programmes. To bring it up with thesis: when an artistic director of an institution is going to program, will he himself think through what's important in society today, and even figure out what it is? Or should you, as the Workers' Party wants, be leading what these overall values are going to be? It's setting a framework for cultural life that you'd never dreamed of doing, for example. to the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e508	In the change of line with the Progress Party in place, it was found that the Progress Party wants a similar rate on media memos in the case of paper and electronic editions of newspapers. I understand that even the Right wants a similar rate of VAT here. But I've had problems seeing what kind of batches are going on, and I just have to be sorry if I could have read it, but I haven't been able to find it. I wonder if it's 0 pst., like on the paper newspapers today, 8 pst., which has been a compromise proposal that has been out in the field, or 25 pst., that applies to the electronic papers per day?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e513	It's 8 pst., as the National Media Association has proposed, which will provide a proceeds solution that would have been fully manageable. It is almost incomprehensible that the government, with such a great deal of self-evidentness, just denies it the issue. It tells us that the Ministry of Culture once again loses the battle against the Ministry of Finance. It also tells us about a Ministry of Culture which unfortunately is rather weak, and which undermines the credibility of the entire government in the field of culture. When the Ministry of Finance does not support VAT, when the Ministry of Education does not receive a film education or provide training in Nordic and when the Ministry of Environment does not provide cultural heritage protection in a way such as a cultural promise. In fact, the Ministry of Culture appears to be a purely budgetary department, while the overall profile of the government's cultural policy appears in a rather lukewarm light.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e518	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e521	Most people are major users of art and culture. We listen to music, watch movies, read books, or experience art in everything from advertising to the public space. We use culture to disconnect and relax, but also to self-development and reflection. A movie, a book, a song or a picture can be enjoyed, but at the same time challenge us to think in new ways. Art has an important self-esteem both for those who create, for those who communicate, and for those who experience art. The cultural promise has been very ambitious. I have to say that we are lucky in Norway who have the opportunity – and not least the political will – to invest so much in culture. Some people say it's a luxury, but I dare say it's of great value – that contributes to a better society to live in. One might say that with a good part of culture, you don't realize how important it is until it's not there. If we are to be sure of a still large-scale commitment to culture, it is important to keep a red-green government even after the cultural promise II has been fulfilled. Only then can we be sure that ambitions are maintained, that we have a cultural policy that focuses on justice, and that culture will reach everyone, regardless of background, economy and geography. Cultural life has great ring-effects. Cultural life is a meeting place across culture, religion, age and background. Art and culture contribute, inter alia: for good health, social community and learning. Research has shown that art and culture in schools can contribute to better performance in other areas of competence. A good cultural offer is also important for local development. Living societies demand living cultural life. Folk libraries, cultural schools, museums and other local cultural arenas are central to the development of good communities. I must admit that I am proud that we are following the cultural promise. From the moment we entered into a cooperation in the red-green government, we have held a tough course against that 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes. We've kept the promises all the way, but of course we also have further ambitions. For SV, it is important to give a real boost to culture for children. We believe that support for cultural production for children must be given priority when a new cultural promise is to be made. Children and young people shall have the opportunity to experience and practice culture. Child culture has not had the status it deserves. It is a political responsibility to give the conditions needed to increase both quality, dissemination and status. The cultural schools are important here. I have to admit that we would like to do more in that particular field than we have. But the fact that there is now a cultural school-hour in the week, we believe is a good thing. In this way, all children can have the opportunity to become acquainted with the cultural school. It is a well-known matter that cultural participation is a class issue. Participation is too often determined by social and economic membership, as well as participation in cultural schools. Providing everyone with a cultural school offer can lead to cohesion. Another advantage is that employees in the cultural school can thus be more fully offered whole positions and better conditions. SV believes that practical and aesthetic subjects must have a more central place in the school. The cultural school bag is thus a successful offer that brings high-quality professional art to children and young people across the country. It is important to continue to invest in this offer. I believe that particular attention needs to be paid to the fact that the school bag will give more lasting commitment and work on art and culture. Finally, I would also like to point out in this debate that it is important to ensure that artists have the opportunity to live on their art. It has been particularly important for SV to continue to provide long-term and predictable income opportunities for established artists when the current guarantee income is phased out. We are therefore pleased that two long-term grant schemes are set up, with a minimum of ten years predictability. This shall apply to the established artists, but also to senior artists. For us, it has been essential that it is a minimum of ten years, that you can also apply for a further five years, and not least that there is predictability by getting 10 to 12 months' notice of receiving this scholarship or not. There is no doubt that it would have a major impact on Culture-Norway in particular if the alternative budget of the Progress Party had been given a majority. I am very pleased that, with the majority's proposals, we will have another historic promise for the cultural sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e542	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e545	The representative pointed out several times that raising children and young people and youth in culture was important. On Andøya a festival has been organised since 1983. This festival is completely open to the oceans, is run by young people and is for young people. It's a festival that's drug-free, and it's one of the very few that's available to young people under the age of 18. It's written a positive note in the budget, and it's also taken up from several verbally. What is it for the socialist government to be involved in supporting these young people in the work they are doing on Andeya for a free festival? What can the representative do about it in order to raise it even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e550	There are many good remarks about the budget, both from the opposition and from the position, and a good part of the comments we might have been able to make if we had had some more time to look at the consequences of it, etc., such as. this one about Andøya. Then we're going to be a little careful to point out too many small, concrete projects in a large cultural budget, because it can give false hopes, especially if it doesn't lead to real financial support for these projects. But, of course, SV is prepared to ensure that as many local positive measures as possible are supported, and especially important are youth projects and those of a drug-free nature, because there are a lot of young people under 18 years of age who do not feel they have a sufficiently good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e556	SV is liberatingly clear about just being able to take the lead in cultural life. For example, SV believes that quotaing is a good thing. with a view to gender equality, and have also been aware that diversity or integration can be taken into account. I think that's fair, and I feel that's a clear signal. But it's one thing that surprises me that the environmental party SV doesn't want to be included, and that's the environmental perspective. Private enterprises in Norway are required in their annual reports to account for their environmental profile. Should it not be natural, then, that cultural activities, among the interests of cultural life, should also have an environmental perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e561	It's an interesting question that Thommes here raises. We think it has been very important to give some leadership in the cultural sector, such as in many other sectors that receive state transfers – including, gender equality or not least, universal design, which has become increasingly important, but also the issue of the environment and the environmental perspective. There's something we can take with us and evaluate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e566	The representative was inside the cultural schools in his post and gave a small admission that the government has not done as much as you might have expected four years ago. But what you've done now is add 72 million. NOK to one hour in the SFO, which will then be an offer to everyone. That's not what the cultural schools are basically doing, that's not what the cultural schools have been asking for, and that's not what the 30,000 on the waiting list have been asking for. My question is: when you can first suddenly cough up money for the cultural schools, what is it that gives the cultural schools something quite different than what they've asked about, that doesn't give the children a waiting list place, and that might look more like an instrument to fulfill the SV's dream of a full-day school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e571	There are many challenges to cultural education, not least reducing waiting lists. If we had reduced the waiting lists to zero per day, it would have cost a lot of money. Now that we can get one cultural school class to everyone, probably means that someone who is on a waiting list today is getting an offer that is sufficient for them. But the most important thing is that we now give everyone an opportunity to get acquainted with the cultural schools. This may mean that even more people want a cultural school offer, so that the waiting lists are sometimes, unfortunately, longer than they are today. There are some municipalities that have already implemented this, and that are very satisfied. I have received feedback from many municipalities that they are very happy to attend. Although perhaps not everyone gets what they have asked for, there is at least some of what Kulturskole-Norway has also asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e578	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e581	Culture is important to our society. Culture is so much. Living in a city, you may have the opportunity to consume cultural experiences. But in the districts, you have to be much more involved in producing the cultural experiences yourself, if you want such offers. High-quality professional performances, exhibitions and other cultural expressions are important. It gives us good experiences and real spice in everyday life, and it also gives children, young people and other amateurs something to stretch after. But it is the popular culture – the voluntary, also called the third sector – that is the most important, and that is glued to society itself. Norway is, as you know, one of the world’s best countries to live in. Here we have it safe and sound. We've built a welfare society that takes care of our children, our elderly and ourselves when we're sick and we need it. Our society has undergone enormous changes over the last few generations. The large family with several generations and heavy flocks of young people is far too far away. Adult children live far from their parents, and the sibling spreads to all wins when they grow up. In many ways, friends have replaced some of the family that they used to be for each other. I don't mean in any way that we're going back to the 1950s and 1960s. But when I now describe today's societies, without a big family and relatives living miles apart, perhaps in other countries or on another continent, society sounds sad. But it's not like that. However, Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in. And even though some people are lonely and there are poor people in this country, most people aren't. Most of us have it well and safely financially. We have well-being goods from the public in the form of kindergartens, health services and care for the elderly — and not least we have a volunteer. The voluntary sector is the most important thing we have in a modern society. It is what, in addition to the other private and public goods we have, makes Norway such a good country to live in. Because the public can never give us everything we need. We do not have such good advice, nor in Norway, where we have 'pægeng på bok'. The private can never give us what we need. Money isn't everything in life. We can't buy happiness if we never get that rich. But the voluntary sector — the association with others, the care of each other that exists in this sector — gives us what we need in addition to private wealth and public welfare services. For some, it is rewarding to work in the voluntary sector — be a coach, or perhaps a visitor’s friend for the elderly or lonely. It gives us something that we can contribute something for others. Others are involved in sports because they want to ski or maybe throw handball. Some people even get good inside of these sports. Had we had any Therese Johaug in the long run without the local long run club in the tiny Dalsbygda in Os municipality in Østerdalen? Had we had handballs that had won championships after championships without volunteering, without the local handball clubs? Or did we have talents in music, song, opera or theatre without voluntary teams and associations of various kinds? No, I don't think so. The goal is not just to bring out talents either. Voluntaryness is at least as important to those who never become world champions in anything, but who just want to be in a community and have it well. The most important task of volunteering is to give people a good and meaningful life, whether they're involved in culture or they're going to experience culture. Volunteering is so important to our society that we in the Center Party put a terrible amount of eggs – in fact, almost everyone we had – in a basket of this year's cultural budget. That curve was VAT compensation for volunteering. And we did that. VAT compensation for voluntary teams and associations has been raised by 320 million. kr in the State budget for 2013 and the scheme is now nearly 1 billion. kr. This is the lifting of time for volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e614	I understand that the representative and the centre party are very concerned about Building Norway and what is happening around the country. But the lot is very small in terms of the position of charging the e-book. You know that it's a little forward-looking and old-fashioned to think that we're going to keep the paperbook alone forever, and that the e-book hasn't come to stay. I also understand that the representative is interested in the Norwegian language, Norwegian literature, Norwegian authors, Norwegian publishers and Norwegian bookstores around the country and the expertise you are sitting on. But what has the Central Party done, and what has the representative done to the other socialists in the government? And what has been done to the Ministry of Finance to eliminate VAT, or at least to treat paperbooks, e-books and audiobooks in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e621	Thank you for the question. It's not like we in the Center Party are interested only in Building Norway or just in paper books or Norwegian authors, but of course we think it is important to maintain a cultural offer throughout the country and stimulate that we get the most Norwegian authors possible. When it comes to the question, we're very busy figuring out how we can process e-books in the future, because there's probably not so many people who have found the answer to how we can get e-books and regular books. We had a review of this when we went to the library in Drammen the other day, when we also discussed this question in relation to the libraries and e-books there. This is a question we have on the agenda for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e630	I experienced the representative of Grøtting's posts as very interesting in relation to the wish for growth from below. Now it is the way that this government has made sure that those who run the money are getting fewer and fewer, and they are staying in Oslo. Unfortunately, it's a very clear statistic as to what development is like as to who gets the money. I think the best way to ensure that environments across the country are provided with funding is that these environments are going to be good, that they are able to write fine applications, build good projects that can be found in the application procedure, but also that they have criteria that value the quality that must be at local level. Can the representative, Mr Groetting, agree? And in that case, is she satisfied with the line the government has led? And is she satisfied with what the Central Party has achieved in the matter of centralization?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e637	There's an important question that's being asked here. We are quite rightly concerned that there should be cultural experiences and cultural offerings across the country. That's what I said about, because volunteering is one of the most important things we have in culture. There's the flower that grows it. In addition, we also have to have the larger cultural institutions and the professional art. It's probably not that we get an opera or other big institutions out in Building Norway, but we get opera environments; in the North East we have, among other things. Opera Di Setra. So it's flourishing in Building Norway, and I actually think that such institutions as the opera in Oslo have been involved in also creating engagement, for example, opera out in Building Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e643	The last thing I can say is that I fully agree. There was also a great deal in the contribution from the representative, Mr Groetting, that I can agree with. The representative was involved in the VAT compensation scheme, a system that the Central Party has flagged very high and has been very satisfied with. But voluntary feedback is that the scheme creates a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy. If there was something that was the point of that scheme, it was just to free energy and resources in volunteering – not to throw it away on bureaucracy. My question to the representative Grøtting is: Is the Centre party satisfied with the system that it appears today, or will you take seriously the feedback that comes from the volunteer?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e652	Thank you for the question. There are not only negative feedbacks about this scheme. I think first we can establish that the VAT compensation system is important, and it is good for voluntary teams and organisations. There is no doubt about it, and the organisations themselves have confirmed this in the hearings we have had. But an evaluation of the scheme presented yesterday actually shows that the entire 67 pst. by the organisations, the scheme is non-bureaucratic. That's why I think the picture is more nuanced than the representative Øyvind Hope drawn here. We've always focused on simplifying the voluntary sector, and we're doing what we can to make it even simpler in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e657	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e660	Is cultural policy more than money? Yes, it is. Cultural policy is about the understanding of man, about the understanding of society, about freedom of expression, about power and about spirit life. So I want to start by saying that the Christian People's Party is based on culture being a fundamental part of a human being's life, of the community and the community, of a national community – and part of international contact and community. This is a fundamental starting point, and it is fundamental in the understanding of human life and human society – independent of cultural policies and state instruments as such. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to assume that we can't put an equal sign between cultural life and cultural policy. You still hear a rhetoric, especially from the red-green side, where you get the impression that the task of cultural policy is to drive culture. I would like to use an image from agriculture: it is not that cultural politicians, politics and the authorities put the seeds in the soil. The task of cultural policy is to fertilise and water when the seeds are sown. That's why there's no detail, no splint, no discord when we're discussing governance of cultural life. Culture is about freedom of expression and power. One of the keywords in this discussion is the word ‘programming’. It is not that the word programming has unfortunately been mentioned in some phrase from the red-green. No, it's now a word that goes back in all chapters and big shots where you talk about how you want to pursue cultural policies in the different sectors. It is a central part of the governance dialogue with all those who receive state support. To stay in the agricultural picture, you can get the impression that the red-greens don't just want to be the farmer who puts the seed in the ground. You also want to bring a herbicide that can take away any crops in meadows that you don't want there. In discussions we've had about this before, the red-greens are always saying that it's just about which target groups to reach. If this is the case, you can say ‘target groups’ – and that you will discuss target groups with the institutions. But you have chosen to use the word programming. You use it consistently -- over and over again. Then you have to take responsibility for answering what it means. The cultural budget is approaching 10 billion. kr. Let's take a step back and ask ourselves what we would spend 10 billion. If we were to spend it on cultural life, I think a lot of people would say: let's give children and young people an opportunity to express themselves through art and culture. Nevertheless, after this escalation, it's a paradox that this is one of the areas that is really down-prioritized. The cultural schools, the corpus movement, the corpus movement, the institutions and movements that really give children and young people opportunities, have consistently chosen to deprioritise. Norway has, internationally, a unique tradition for cows. Nevertheless, you speak in a cultural budget of ten billion. kr – where only the increase is 800 million. kr – about increases in the field by 1 million. NOK here and NOK 200 000 there. There is a systematic down-priority of the chord field. In the case of cultural schools — where money has finally been spent — funds are spent on something that cultural schools have not requested, and which do not provide the thousands of young people with a waiting list, space and opportunity to learn what they want. As far as voluntary activities are concerned, a VAT compensation scheme has been put in place. This is good, but now it is referred to as a support scheme in line with other support schemes, but it was never meant to be. Here we have to clean up the bureaucracy, here we have to release the volunteer, here we have to release the cultural life. So the Christian People's Party has shown in its alternative budget that it is possible to re-prioritize, so that we give the areas that are down-prioritized, the opportunity to grow and evolve. I bring this up with the proposals that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e681	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e686	Eye Wind Hope in its post draws a picture of the reality of volunteering, in which I am not at all familiar. All over the country, we see a tremendous commitment, and this government has supported the voluntary nature of the VAT compensation scheme and the various support schemes we have – corresponding to over 0.5 billion. kr. Support has been given to the movement of the corps by constantly strengthening the purchasing system for musical instruments, and throughout the country it is celebrated and cheered as never before on the voluntary side. So I want to strongly refute the Håbreuk's claim. The Christian People's Party's problem is that one has chosen a side – a bourgeois government option. When you have to negotiate with the Progress Party – which cuts over 1 billion. kr in the cultural budget – is the question of how to achieve the goals of the Christian People's Party with that kind of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e691	First, I want to correct the representative a little bit about volunteering flourishing like never before. Volunteering in Norway has always flourished, and research on volunteering is probably showing a more nuanced picture of how it develops. The fact that there is more money on the state budget because we have received the VAT compensation scheme is correct. But once again, it just shows what I'm saying, that in the red-green rhetoric, there are similarities between the two terms "State appropriations" and "cultural life". It's an unhealthy approach, I mean. Yes, the Progress Party has a completely different cultural policy than the Christian People's Party. They're going to cut off 1.5 billion. kr in the cultural budget. They do some -- I'll say -- strange priorities, which I can't put behind me at all. They tickle, for example. in the appropriations of national institutions and ask them to take them back into revenue from tickets, which in effect leads to the commercialisation of those institutions. It is a cultural policy that lies beyond the Christian People's Party can support and promote. I will actually go so far as to say that I take as much distance from the cultural policy of the Advancement Party as I do to the red-green overarching of cultural life. That's how far I'll go.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e700	I welcome the clarification of how the Christian People's Party views the cultural policy of the Advance Party. It will be exciting to follow up on how to reach agreement in that area. It seems to be miles away. So the representative takes this up with state override, as it is claimed that this government is running, and I will strongly reject it. We see that the cultural field through the cultural promise, through the strengthening of the volunteering and institutions of cultural life, experiences a freedom they have rarely experienced – because they have the freedom to do what they want. They have the opportunity to realize the plans that they might previously only dream of, precisely because we have the ability to increase the allocations. Another part of the free and independent community is media policy. I am very happy that the Christian People's Party is together with the red-green in the view of production support etc. Here, too, we see that they are miles away from the policy of the Progress Party, which is about shutting down local viewers. Will the Christian People's Party be able to accept that several locals will be shut down, as Ib Thomsen has confirmed will be the result of their policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e709	The Christian People's Party wants strong media support. Let's put that behind us. Then the voters get to vote on what they think about the different options. But this is the Christian People's Party's policy, it's important for the Christian People's Party. In terms of what the representative says about governance of cultural life, it's quite illustrative: you've got more freedom than before because you've got more money. I assume that the representative agrees with what you write in the letters of assignment, that you put a lead on how to use the money. It is quite a good illustration that just as private money can lead cultural life, red-green appropriations will lead cultural life. If you want a free cultural life, you have to settle with the leaders that the government wants to send with the funds. That's what I did in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e716	The representative Hope draws a dark picture of today's cultural policy that I don't recognize either. I will follow up on the first question from the representative Stokkan-Grande. So we've stepped up the cultural field pretty much. We experience that the Christian People's Party shares many of the red-green values and priorities in many major cultural issues. The progress party is completely at the other end of the scale. Does the Christian People's Party feel confident that in such dark blue government cooperation they will be able to pursue a cultural policy in line with the values of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e723	I want to answer the question again, saying that the red-green government has not stepped up the cultural field, they have stepped up the cultural appropriations. That's two different things. It just shows that there's a significant difference in the reality of what cultural policy is, what cultural life is, between us and the red-green. I believe the representative Groetting is aware that the Christian People's Party does not go to the elections at a government cooperation with the Advance Party. We've said that we want to contribute to a government shift, and in that context, it's natural to talk to everyone on the non-socialist side. We are going to elections on a government cooperation between the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party. There we stand for our cultural policy. The Progress Party has a quite different cultural policy. As I say, I take the same distance from it as to the red-green attempts at state override of cultural life. Both parts are serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e733	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e736	I very much agree with the introduction of the Christian People's Party representative. For the Left, a liberal party, it may be ‘freedom of expression’ that is one of the main words that form the basis of a cultural policy. That is why cultural policy is different from health policy, industrial policy or other policy areas in which there is a need to maximise efficiency and achievement. Culture is utterances. It is not just political statements expressed in political speeches or letters of readers that should include the fight for freedom of expression. Opinions are also art, culture and all the other ways that people in a society express themselves. This forms the basis of the cultural policy of the Left. I think what's the distinction between what can be called a bourgeois cultural policy, and what's the socialist, which is the basis of government, is that there's a completely different targeting of how to use the cultural instruments. I want to illustrate it with one difference in the government's budget proposal, which is only 6 million. kr in relation to the alternative budget of the Left. The left is concerned with the multicultural cultural expressions. The left is concerned that the multicultural cultural expressions should be reflected in Norwegian cultural policy. The government does so by expressing it in letters of allocation to institutions, while the Left does so by allocating more funds to the multicultural institutions we have. There is a good illustration of the difference — whether to instruct state institutions, or whether to stimulate environments that work for what you think is important to have as part of the cultural expression. For this reason, in each budget alone, the Left has prioritised the multicultural cultural institutions – Nordic Black Theatres and all those who have really contributed to creating artists with a different cultural background. It shows that we think differently when it comes to this particular thing. For example, other efforts made by the Left in its budget are: that we want to focus more on developing the library concept in a new digital age, that it is important to develop some new models for libraries and their important position. That is why we want a subsidy system for those who want to develop new library models. We also have a gift enhancement scheme for museums that we're going to fight for at sunset. It is a matter of wanting a much larger investment in both assembly management and infrastructure at Norwegian museums. We believe that a gift enhancement scheme could help. We have a verbal proposal today on an escalation plan related to collection management and infrastructure on the museum page. We have also put in several scholarships for artists, not for the old ones, which SV talked about today, but to get more young artists into the artists' scholarship schemes. In sum, the left-hand side is going to add up to 160 million. kr to culture in its alternative state budget. We've done that every year. It's not just the government that has added up, we've added in more every two decades in the last eight years. When you say that it's just the sum of money that's the big difference, I think you have to look further into your reality in order to be able to convey the impression that the others are not spending money on culture. The left has spent more on culture in every budget in the last eight years. Finally, it's a little confusing with so many things in two different debates, but at least I'm going to deal with the proposals that are relevant in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e753	We may well agree that the representative is dealing with all the proposals that belong to this debate, and we are done with that. Then the representative Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to, and we are going to try to keep track of them. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e760	I want to share that I agree with Trine Skei Grande that freedom of expression is actually a very important part of Norwegian cultural policy. I believe that freedom of expression within cultural life has become much greater under the red-green government, precisely because the red-green government has escaped to many more cultural expressions, giving many more artists the opportunity to express what they have on their hearts. This can be done, among other things: see from the increase in the Cultural Fund, in both stage art, dance and music, where it is not at all a matter of government going in and running, but actually allocating more resources, so that more people are given the opportunity to participate. What I think is a little strange is that the Left, when you talk about freedom of expression, does not see that the press policy is also part of freedom of expression – when you cut the press support, you cut the freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e767	There is a slight redefinition in press support in our alternative proposal. It is about today's systems, including: the inability to obtain a VAT system in the case of digital media. It is becoming a major problem for the press and our media policy as well. We don't think understanding today's system is the best thing. Thinking that all freedom of expression goes through the paper newspapers is not the best either. We want a major shift in this field, both in terms of VAT and support for digital media. We believe that today's ownership-structure thinking, which is about geography, is completely outdated in a digital everyday life. We have also opened up the possibility of creating purely journalistic scholarships, because in today's digital world it will also be possible for individual journalists who are not associated with an editorial work to contribute with good journalism in Norwegian media.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e781	Like the Left Party, government parties want to do something about the press support, but we don't want to cut the press support, because it actually has dramatic consequences for both small and medium-sized newspapers – even if you want to do the conversion that the Left Party wants. Another side that is also interesting to hear Skei Grande talk about is: what really is bourgeois cultural policy? I understand that the cultural policy of the Left is to have a little bit more money than the government parties. But when we hear what is the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party, we realize that there is quite a great distance between what these bourgeois parties stand for. Let us look at Oslo, where they are now struggling to agree on, among other things. The Munch Museum, we almost have to wonder if civil cultural policy is about total paralysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e788	If that's how the Workers' Party wants to agree with the City Council to build Lambda, it's very nice for me. What the Workers' Party has stood for in Oslo is to postpone the matter indefinitely and to want a new architectural competition for a new place. I think it's important to build that museum. I would have hoped that the Labour Party could be involved, but if we can't do it, we'll be able to find a solution in another way. I think you can see the bourgeois cultural policy if you read the proposals of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left together. I understand that this is a little difficult for the government to understand, but it's not just about how much money you have, but it's about how much you control the money. It is not about inflating any schemes, but about perhaps creating some alternative schemes and support schemes. It's not about making the most possible possible, because then you place too much power in one place. I understand that the government is afraid that that power must then be public. I believe that it may also have to be private somewhere. You also have to make public counterpower, but it's important to spread power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e795	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e798	Our goal is for Norway to be a leading cultural nation, for art and culture to be free, for art and culture to be valued for its own self-esteem. Access to art and culture and the ability to express itself creatively are important in a democratic society. It lays the groundwork for the breaking of meaning and the width of the public word. A strong and dynamic cultural life again shows a lack of cultural expression and voices, from the narrow to the commercial, from the provocative and aggressive to the delicate and warm – and everything in between. Through the Cultural Promises I and II, the cultural effort since 2005 has been a historic one, with a growth of nearly 5 billion. kr. It's a doubling of the cultural budget. Now cultural life has gained economic muscles. Now culture has been raised in the policy elite division. We now have a stronger cultural infrastructure throughout the country. From 2013 on, the Cultural Promise is 0.96 pst. by the State budget, and we are continuing to support the course towards fulfilling the cultural promise. But one thing is the 1 pst measure and the force that this gives. And just as important, what we spend our money on is what we spend our money on. We will build the basis for democracy and participation for the many, not for the few. So I feel that the representative Olemic Thommessen invited me to comment on his thoughts, and then I would like to do it. I record that in his post he spoke for a very long time about his version of red-green policy, not about Right's policy. I have no problem with the interest he shows us, but it's a bit of a shame that it's being polished so much. The representative Thommes thinks that the increase in public funds means concentration of power. Then almost cultural life has to assume that Right wants to cut public funds over time. Based on the considerations he shared about the private initiatives he wanted to facilitate, and the tax deductions he wanted to give, it seems that he does not trust that private donors will continue to give unless they receive tax deductions to do so. Then I understand that he also thinks that a government without an active cultural policy is a good government. Overall, the representative came with quite strong results against circumvention as a governance dialogue and expressed visions in letters of assignment. Therefore, I am quite curious about how he will characterise the following two copies. The first example is from a question from the Olemic Thommessen on 29 March 2006 addressed to the then state council Trond Giske. Citation: ‘The establishment of the National Museum of Art has led to the conversion of the operations of the former National Gallery, which is based on national functions which the institution has so far intended to perform.’ And here's what's interesting: ‘Does the Norwegian Council of State need a museum that always displays a historically representative image of Norwegian art, which management tools do the Ministry of State consider to be responsible for this?’ Thus, the representative Thommessen lacks confidence in the professional integrity of those who run this museum – unless a user of a management tool, a historically representative image of Norwegian art will not be given. That's what I think cultural life makes sense to notice. In addition, he opposes himself when he asks for the management tool one day and the other day says he wants less use of it. The representative Thommess turns out to have quite short arms in things that involve him personally. So to the second example, and it's from an allotment letter from 2003, i.e. under a right-dominated government with a Christian People's Party council. This is from a letter of introduction to Sogn and Fjordane theatre. Citation: ‘The Ministry has argued that the institutions are actively involved in presenting new Norwegian choreography where the situation facilitates dance views, and has requested that Sogn and Fjordane theatre report on their work in this area in the 2004 report.’ Sogn and Fjordane should be actively involved in presenting new Norwegian choreography. It will be programmed, and it will guide the priorities of the Sogn and Fjordane theatres. And the representative, Olemic Thommess, doesn't have a problem with that? It's at least sent from a Right-dominated government. Of that we can rent out that the characteristic representatives of the Olemic Thommesse used about our cultural policy, or our government, are also the characteristics that he wants to use about his own. The main difference between a Right and Progress Party government and our government is that we can expect a substantial cut with a Right and Progress Party government, and increase the commercialization of cultural life. The narrow, the provocative, the noisy, what takes time to develop its artistry, won't get what it needs to flourish. We want to make sure that the full width of the outer space is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e843	I'm a little curious about this with the castle museum. The King and Queen have been voiced and made their objects available to the public with a hiking exhibition that has been a success – with vehicle, art, clothing, gifts, furniture, photographs, documents and a lot of private items from King Karl Johan’s time. It is important that one now looks forward to 2014, and there we have a story that covers from 1814, 1905 to today. How does the Council of State view a permanent exhibition of these items? How and where does the Council of State see such a possibility to be established, and does the Council of State see that this could be a great exhibition in the anniversary year?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e850	These are important items, which I think there are many who would like to see. I'm glad there's a lot of sheep. When it comes to the question of whether it can be a permanent exhibition, there is something I do not have a position for now. Then you'll get a better assessment of it in later crossroads. But there's no doubt that there are important items here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e855	I've heard a lot of budget debates in this room, but I have to say that this is the first time I've heard a council of states use all their efforts to talk about other parties, but not spend time on their own policies. I think that is quite special, but in many ways it is also understandable with the policy being pursued. Volunteering is an important sector, and many good ideas are started as a voluntary commitment and effort, and evolve to become larger activities that require other ways of being funded. Arctic Race of Norway is such an example, which has received a lot of red-green support in the media, but not when it comes to political decisions in this room. At the same time, Prime Minister Stoltenberg gave 25 million. kr in a state guarantee to a rally World Cup some time ago. Why doesn't the Council of State want to treat bicycles and rally in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e862	To take the first: The representative of Korsberg is critical that in my post I actually responded to the representative of Olemic Thommess inviting me to respond. But I'm going to think that the idea of a debate is that one responds to the challenges you're getting in the debate. So the question was related to Arctic Race. It is not traditionally such that one from the state side gives means to exactly this type of competitor. This does not mean that competition is poor or unimportant, but it is a common practice to give funds to them, for example. the organisation of the OL or youth OL. That's the reasoning that I also use when it relates to Arctic Race.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e869	I will try on a later occasion to find speaking time to respond to the challenges given. What I want to address now is what I also think is a bit striking, and that is that the Council of State did not use a single word about media policy. Media policy is an area where her predecessors have also not overworked. There has been very little happening in these eight years, despite the fact that the media area is under enormous change. It is urgent to have clear framework conditions and clear directions for where we want to be politically. The question of VAT is a central question. Payment by the distribution imposed is another, limiting for the NRK is a third. We had two reports, the Slagholm report and the Sonneland report, both of which were submitted just before Trond Giske left. These reports are almost gone by a pen stroke. I ask the Council of State: are there any examples from these reports that she wants to use for any suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e878	Once again, I started talking about them overseeing the features of our policy. I assume that the representative Olemic Thommessen also thought it appropriate to get answers to the challenges he's giving me in the process. The representative Thommess says that our government, i.e. me, my predecessor and perhaps her predecessors, is showing little attention to the media policy. To defend my predecessor, there were some selections that could see closer to media policy and that have seen proposals for action that we are now following. I myself have a journalistic background and a great interest in developments in this area. The newspapers — the media — face major challenges in the years to come, not least because of the digital transformation and the need for new forms of funding for journalism. There are processes that I want to follow very closely. That's also why we've increased media output by 20 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e885	Like the representative Thommessen, I'm going to come back to the challenges that the Council of State sent. The council said in its speech that the cultural promise had raised cultural life in elite division. Yes, to some extent that's probably right, but asking a corlive over that pretty country, a few would get a pretty unisony answer. Yes, the cultural field is in elite division, but the Norwegian choir movement is in the second division according to the policy pursued. One can only see in the budget. In other areas, the unit of measurement is $10 million. The cross-policy is measured in thousands of copies. Now it's the way that all the ministers of culture would like to travel building blocks after themselves. The building block for the corlives is actually available. Will the Minister of Culture lift that building stone and make it his cause? Then I'm going to make a promise: if that happens, I'm going to have a tribute in the next cultural budget debate in one year when we meet again here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e892	I'll notice that challenge, and I'll do the best I can. What I can say about the crossroads is that in 2013 we are continuing the bet with a total strength of 3.7 million. kr. What we have stressed is a wide strengthening of the area with a good geographical distribution of funds, and therefore the funds are allocated to cows in different places in the country – both ensemble support and choral activity. We also believe that it is more appropriate and realistic to strengthen the existing support schemes and institutions that we have rather than to build up new institutions and schemes. That's why we, for example. not sees it as appropriate to establish a new national professional choir, which has been called for by some actors. Conductor development is also a question that I feel the representative has been busy in other contexts. For the first time in the year's budget, there are 0.2 million. kr to a test project in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e899	Me and the Council of State have a common past in the KUF Committee. New government councils can open up new opportunities. In this budget, the Left has previously proposed a grant scheme for talents in the cultural sector. Two days ago, we were presented with the TIMSS study. One of the findings there is that we are too bad in Norway to take care of talents. I think that also applies in the cultural sector. So my hope and my question to the Council of State is that she may be a little bit more positive than a previous one has been, to create a scholarship scheme that can also take care of the talents we have in the cultural sector, so that we can get some proper driving forces that can be role models for many other young people in cultural life as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e904	Thank you for the challenge. I don't have a position on such a grant scheme, but I notice the commitment of the representative around it. I can go back and think about it. I want to say that my concern when it comes to new voices in cultural life is primarily about the voices that are a little bit different, those that are a little sideways, those that may be a little aggressive, a little provocative, that have a different form, or that differ in a way that might not make them feel the same way, for example. private actors or others to whom they try to turn. I think it's an important public task to facilitate that width is real, and that those who express themselves in innovative ways, ways that stand out, or even ways that are noisy, can also be involved in expanding the space of expression that cultural life makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e911	One of the strongest examples of centralization under this government has happened in connection with films. We see that there has been a good increase in the Film Fund, but the merger of the Film House collected power on fewer hands. The upgrading of the regional film funds has failed, as was the premise in the debate at the time of its adoption. Another thing that has also been missing — or almost failed — was the means of continuing education that was in the Film Institute. That was $14 million. kr that time, since no one has seen them. Further education was provided for film education in Norway, but the government, through the Ministry of Knowledge, has put so stringent leadership in film education that it cannot complete it. There have been much more stringent frameworks than for art training elsewhere in Norway. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State contribute to the development of continuing training, and does she think it is a good idea to put in place a master's degree in the field of film?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e919	A master's degree in film is not immediately available to this council, but I do believe that the changes made to the Film House and the Norwegian Film Institute were correct and necessary changes. They were alerted in the Guide and were carried out, as far as I think, in 2008. I understand that the representative Thommessen also stated in his previous speech that it could help to make the regional investment too weak. To that end, I would like to stress that the Film Institute – although it is successful in Oslo – still has a national responsibility, in the same way that even if the Stortinget succeeds in Oslo, we that are part of it have a national responsibility. The permissions of this area have increased in recent years, and they will continue to increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e926	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e929	Unfortunately – in my view – it is too rare for us from this pulpit to give sport the place it deserves when we discuss the state budget. Sport-Norway deserves a great thank you from all of us for both the will and the ability they have to give a content of the vision of ‘ sport and physical activity for all’. Thousands of volunteers and practitioners contribute every day to make this possible – thank you very much to them. Volunteering is a lifesaver in society, and without their formidable efforts stopping sport and volunteering Norway. For this reason, it is important that the state sports policy plays with those who in their everyday lives use time and mass forces for both the breadth and the top of Norwegian sport. There's plenty of work to do. One of the areas is having enough and good facilities to create activity. We are going to acknowledge that the lag on the plant side of Norwegian sport is large, and we are talking about a lot of money. It shouldn't be like that. We have to lift up in order to do something about it. That's a problem we're serious about. ‘Implementability’ was a key element in the debate on the persuasion, a word deliberately chosen by the opposition to criticise the government for its inability to implement. We did not take it to ourselves then, and we do not do it today or the next days. We are actually proud of what we have done – in all areas – but we are not satisfied. We want to move on. It also applies within the voluntary sector, where sport has its place. The opposition's criticism of us is what we call a record bomb in the shooter's language. They hit as far to the right as possible on the blink. In other words, they are qualified for a penalty round. Monday's decision to raise the key to 64 pst. by 2015, is a good example of the feasibility and willingness to tackle sport. The Decision will mean a lift for children’s and youth sport, progress in the construction of sports facilities, as well as cultural and volunteering. We should remember that the change in the key comes in the extension of a number of other measures introduced by the red-green government. Just to mention someone, we've introduced the grass root fraction, like, for example, has administered local sports teams and other teams over a quarter of a billion. kr, we have compensated for the sport and volunteering by 1 billion. NOK since the automatic receipts fell, we have introduced the VAT compensation scheme – which has now escalated up to 1 billion. NOK – and now we also change the key, which in three years will add another 600 healthy million to the sport. kr, provided that the profits of Norwegian Typing are as they are today. In the same line, it's probably good to mention that 156 million. kr of the funds are also allocated for activating purposes through the scheme of grants to local teams and associations. Just to have said it again from this pulpit: the government is playing with sport and the rest of volunteer Norway – if anyone is in doubt. We implement what we promise. It is a pity, therefore, that the dark blue partners characterise the government’s sporting action as ‘puzzle’. Especially bad it will be when they try to make a number of being the sports parties rather than others. In order to mention: Right-hand increase of 200 million. kr is positive, they should have all credit for it, but – to put it slightly in perspective – it is far less than a quarter of a billion dollars that the grassroots percentage alone constituted, a system the right parties fought against. At the same time, we note that the Progress Party wants to abolish the gambling monopoly of Norwegian Typing, for the benefit of foreign gambling companies established in tax havens in countries where we can hardly mention the names. Where is the social responsibility of these companies? I don't think they extend beyond their own bottom line. It is a company that does everything they can to avoid paying taxes to the community, and I have no faith that they will share the profits with the Norwegian people. Their motive is honest enough: they only want to foam the cream from an already established gaming market in Norway, in disfavor of sport, volunteering and culture. We want a serious actor who takes social responsibility seriously and ensures that all profits benefit sports, volunteering and culture. For this reason, we say no to the lifting of the gaming monopoly and yes to Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e944	There has been some concern from the red-green parties about how the civil parties will cooperate after the elections. Let me just remind you that the Progress Party, of course, had a cooperation with the civil governments earlier, where we supported their budget proposals secondary. I think it's going to be completely possible to get into the goal there. Many have been involved in sports and game policy. This debate goes into the well-known patterns, with the Progress Party being accused of dropping out foreign gaming companies to compete with Norwegian Typing. We believe that Norsk Tipping can withstand competition, and we want foreign gambling companies to be allowed to establish themselves in Norway, through a licensing system and where part of the turnover – important to distinguish profit from turnover – will go back to and fall into Norwegian sport. That way, we're making the sport policy cake bigger. There will be more money to distribute, and the challenges facing sport will be met. It is a fact that the cravings for drugs have increased significantly during this government. It is not clear – from the government’s point of view – to conduct a good enough policy that has ensured that sport has been given the necessary means. It is clear that there is great frustration both in the municipalities and in sports teams. The most important thing for us is to make sure that pie gets bigger. Because changing the key – of which we have been followers and have made many proposals, and which the red-greens have voted against – is not a guarantee that sport will get more money. Should the sport get more money, there must be more players in Norwegian Typing, and the predictions go in a completely different direction. We want control. We want foreign gambling companies to be allowed to establish themselves in Norway in the same way as they do in a number of other countries – have a licensing system – and that parts of their turnover should be part of Norwegian sport. Then I just get to live with that the red-green parties try to have a different perception of it, and have a certain memory shift in that way. I was a little into the Arctic Race of Norway in my line-up with the Council of State. I record that the Council of State did not answer the question. The question was not about the OL and the Youth Olympics. The question was why a government can support a rally World Cup of 25 million. kr, but do not support a bicycle ride. The last is at least much more environmentally friendly, and it should be in this government's street. I would like the Council of State to explain in the course of the debate why a commercial rally World Cup can be supported, but not a bicycle ride for which there is great support in the cycling environment and throughout North Norway, where public funds are used both from the municipality of Tromsø and from the municipality of Tromsø. As I said, the red-green support projects very well, especially when there's media present, but when you get into this room and in other forums where decisions are made, that support is gone. I think that's unfortunate. "More food for the kitten" – yes, now I'm talking about the NRK. What I quoted was a headline that was written in Dagbladet on November 11. The reason why there was such a crass headline on the leadership position in Dagbladet was the frustration many in the media expressed when establishing a traffic portal in the NRK. In direct competition with other actors, the NRK found a new area to be addressed. Now, and must, the Norwegian people pay the NRK to know when buses, trains and boats are going in Norway, whether they are using the service or not – in fierce competition with others. We think it is very unfortunate that a state enterprise, where the Minister of Culture is in the General Assembly, then goes to the degrees into the commercial sector that you do here. We have made proposals that we want to remove the service. We have so much hope for the new head of the NRK, but we fear that he will only be the government's extended arm. Finally, I am a little disappointed that there were no more parties that could support our proposal on the Nordgebietmuseum in Tromsø. That, I think, would have been an important and correct uplift for the whole continent in terms of cultural heritage in the north. But I record that it did not happen this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e959	I am proud of the cultural budget we are to adopt today. It's interesting to note the big differences between the red-green government and the civil parties. In particular, as usual, the Progress Party appears in this debate. We've recently heard some slightly indignant representatives from the Progress Party who may be a little tired of them not being viewed as busy with art and culture. But they themselves may have to do something about their policies and budgets, they should be trusted in this field. When one proposes a cut of 1.5 billion. In the cultural budget, it is a little bit to make a reputation for being busy in strengthening cultural life in Norway. I also have to say that today's debate is unlikely to be interesting when we get the Christian People's Party to take a clear distance from the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party, we get the Right as a little bit in between saying that they support some of it, and we get the Left who on its side represents a party that might have ruled alone. We could say that it is most uncertain what kind of cultural policy we can bring with the civilians – we could say that he is hovering well in the blues. The initiative for artistic purposes continues with the red-green government. It is important for the Workers' Party to facilitate individual artists to contribute to a diverse and innovative artistic life. We also have a few days ago to deal with the first staging message ever about visual art. We also strengthen the post for artists' scholarships, create 20 new work grants and increase the job grant to NOK 202 000. This is important in order to ensure Norwegian cultural heritage, and in order to facilitate artists to have good conditions for creating their art even in the future – once again a system of the Progress Party will remove. One might wonder what kind of art and culture meet if we were to get a dark blue government. I think it would have been a rage of Norwegian art and cultural life, where only the strongest and most commercial would be all right. It would have been a huge loss for Norway as a cultural nation, and for the future. It is especially, as I said in the line change, that the Progress Party is very opposed to any kind of control – it should be free and nice – but they will control the content of children's TV in detail. They argue for this and reason that Jesus is important to Norwegian cultural heritage. But when you look at the general policy of the Progress Party for Norwegian cultural heritage, it's not that important with folk music, old craft traditions, Sami music or Sami newspapers – and the list continues. We know that the narrow slopes – central parts of Norwegian cultural heritage – depend on public support to do well. We're busy taking care of it and developing it further – it's a huge contrast. It's interesting to see what kind of grip the Progress Party is willing to take when it's the debt to control – it's about children's TV. Cultural buildings are being built throughout the country, and they are being filled with content to the delight of children, young people and the elderly. For my homeland, Telemark, this year's budget is a real joy. That's where they've given the 25 million. kr for the construction of the Book and Blueshuset on Notodden. The majority in the Committee are very pleased with that, except for the Progress Party. It'll be an amazing building, to the delight of Telemark and the whole country. Notodden is an international, national, regional and local arena for blues, and Notodden Blues Festival has node status. A joint committee believes that the Book and Blue House will be a very important tool when it comes to travel life at Notodden and Telemark. The Committee also believes that this house will be an important centre for the whole country, strengthening the Notodden city as the blue capital of Europe. I have to say one thing in the end: I still notice in the budget remarks little freckles from the opposition party, they have comments where they are happy that the government finally gets one thing and the other – but then they don't have a penny for themselves. When it comes to the Book and Blue House in Telemark, they will now see cross-political joy that we have got to this, but there is one government that has got these money in place – that's the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e974	Cultural life in Norway is flourishing as never before. Norway is becoming a cultural nation. All over the country, we meet the same thing: a pride, a strong identity and a strong belief in Norway's growing better. We live well in the communities, we have it well together as a society, and we have a strong community. Cultural life is one of the finest expressions we have for man's inherent desire to create something, to give something to others. Cultural life and volunteering are the jewel of Norwegian society. We live in a social democratic golden age, at the same time we live in a golden age for cultural life – and this, of course, is closely linked. By constantly increasing the appropriations for cultural life, we see that national institutions are doing better, getting better quality and becoming more interesting, even internationally. We have been given ever-increasing new buildings that are distinctive in international architecture, which create great curiosity and interest in what is happening in Norway, and which give us increased pride as Norwegians. Also, regionally, we see the same picture, with ever better quality of what's produced, and a cultural life that's reaching out wider than before. We see it in the voluntary sector, where there is a strong commitment to sports and to local culture. This creates ever-strong ties between us as human beings. We are proud of this. This job is for the everyday people in Norway who do – this commitment is created from below – but it is good with the help of the large community as well. And therefore, it is no coincidence that the golden age of Norwegian cultural life comes at the same time as the massive increases in the cultural budget, as we have seen in the Cultural Promises I and II, and as we shall also see in the Cultural Promise III. Then it's like the usual negativity and moodlessness and loss of vision when the opposition's representatives are up on this pulpit, also in this debate. We have seen that the Progress Party, in its comments and in its alternative proposals, wishes to cut production aid to Norwegian newspapers in the long term. At the same time, the Cultural Policy Spokesman of the Progressive Party is standing on this pulpit and says that newspapers are important to Norwegian culture. I'm not going to link this to each other. An example of how important the newspapers are is the Sami culture, and there, of course, is zeroing out the Advance Party absolutely everything, so this rhetoric is not connected. It is also the case that Ib Thomsen from this pulpit has confirmed that with the policies of the Progress Party not only Sami newspapers would have to shut down, but a number of local viewers across the country would have to pack up. It was confirmed in the line change. There came the cats out of the bag. When the Progress Party is talking about a free and independent press, they really mean fewer newspapers. When I hear the opposition representatives standing here, it reminds me that we have Thorbjørn Egner's anniversary this year, and then it's easy to think about stories written by Thorbjørn Egner. Where we're talking about visions, moods, joy and commitment around the country, the opposition like Karius – they're always going to talk about something sad. Where are the visions? Where's the exposure? Where are the thoughts about what Norway will be in the future? Yes, the opposition has a few small praises that they want to present in their draft budget, but the only thing they really have left is to knock in places where they hope it hurts. But instead of 'au! au!’, we call out ‘more! more!" Go on like that! It's getting politeer for us, and the opposition is going to go out of the drain. And there's one who'll be happy if that happens – it's Jens!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e985	I have recorded a slightly scattered debate, where one has drawn a picture that Norwegian culture is under pressure, and that the reason is that we have got so many new countrymen, new Nordics, who bring their culture to Norway. It is important for me to stress that we ourselves are responsible for keeping our culture alive, and that the others – with their culture, their traditions and their religion – are not a threat to our culture as a whole. I thought it was a win. Culture is alive, and will be in change absolutely all the time. But we can give our kids a common arena – that they see children's TVs as well as Disney Channel, that they introduce them to Norwegian music as well as Justin Bieber, that they make meatcakes, but at the same time they can eat kebab, that they see the journey to the Christmas star, but at the same time they can see Istid. This is our responsibility. If we're not conscious of our own culture, then we can't blame others. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we state that Norway should be one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies around the world, within the areas where we have a advantage. Cultural industries and culture-based business development are good examples of areas in the economy that can contribute to more creativity and innovation across society. The good framework conditions for cultural industries are important in order to realise and strengthen our innovation and innovation potential and the competitiveness of our businesses. A better interaction between culture and industry will strengthen the value creation of cultural enterprises, contribute to a more adaptable business and contribute to a positive local and regional development. It's always nice when the red-green state budget is presented. Then we look quickly for: Are some of my heart children here? And for Sogn and Fjordane, I just have to say that there was an enormous change in pace that came in 2005, on measures that have been taken. And now, last of all, we got industrial history -- yes, I want to say it so strongly. Kvernstein Park in Hyllestad: I know that 1,212 000 blanks made way for the well-being, because we can show industrial history in Hyllestad from around the 800s to the industry in Høyanger today. This is good cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e996	It is great to vote for a cultural budget that gives so much joy, inspiration and commitment to the city and the city. It is now eight years since Trond Giske, Magnar Bergo and Eli Sollied Överaas launched the Cultural Promise on behalf of a red-green alternative – one percent of the state budget for culture in 2014. We are on track, we have implementation: Year after year, the government has delivered, and in 2014 we are there. Then the red-green representatives promised a strong community economy. This can be found again, both directly in the local economy, and also in the strengthening of cultural spheres and in many other local activities. The cultural promise has made it possible both to strengthen existing institutions and organisations, to stimulate fissure layers, to reinvigorate activity, to adopt new measures, to strengthen working conditions for artists and cultural workers, and to promote much more – but above all to enhance the possibility of cultural joy, awareness, freedom of expression and democracy. I am pleased that we have a government that has a broad cultural promise to stick to, both through the Cultural Promise I and the Cultural Promise II, and that an active language policy is part of this – taking seriously both in the budget and in other ways that we have two written languages in this country. A lot of good has been said about volunteering from different parties. The government has also delivered: Think that one has got a VAT compensation scheme that 14 000 units and teams got into in 2011 and that will thus amount to a total of SEK 1 billion in 2014 – nearly 950 million. kr in 2013. It gives you a lot of joy and activity. Then there are some threatening clouds, because the Right now has the order for the elite culture to grow. No, we have to hold on to the Community idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1009	In Norway, we can rightly be proud of our intangible cultural heritage, the part of cultural heritage that we cannot take and feel, such as folk music traditions, folk dance, and not least the retelling of Norway's rich history. Unfortunately, we have to note that we cannot be as proud of how we have taken care of this part of our cultural heritage in recent years. Norway has to take responsibility for caring for the Norwegian cultural heritage. Like other countries, we have a special responsibility in Norway to take care of our own cultural traditions. We have committed ourselves to this through the UNESCO Convention on Intangible Cultural Heritage, but at least equally important is the moral and natural responsibility we have to take care of our history. We can't see that the government is taking the problem seriously. FolkOrg is doing an incredibly important work for folk music and folk dance, and the Right has proposed to strengthen this by 1 million. krones in 2013. Ole Bull Akademiet's work on maintaining instrumental education throughout the country is of such importance that this must also be strengthened. The vibrant and pulsating tradition of Norwegian outdoor games makes a unique contribution to history stories about the past of Norway. Knowledge of the past is crucial for the future, and the Right will therefore strengthen the free-air subsidy scheme of 1 million. kr in 2013. Culture must grow from below, it must grow from all the initiatives that people living in culture come with – culture needs ownership and enthusiasm. We cannot plan cultural diversity. We cannot control culture from above – it must grow and sprout from below. In order to be proud of our traditions, we must also be able to take care of them. Many small and traditional crafts are dying out because we in Norway lack training provision in many of these subjects. Traditional craftsmanship is an important part of Norwegian craftsmanship tradition and must be maintained in order to survive. These subjects are the knowledge we need to take care of and restore older cultural memories. When a unique wooden floor or church organ is to be restored, the competence often has to be acquired from abroad because we do not have the skills we need to do it ourselves. On several occasions, the right has proposed to make the grant scheme for small and protective craft industries permanent, but the majority have not supported this. We are still waiting for the government's proposals in this field and we believe that we need to take care of the close and direct education we need for such hand-held knowledge transfer. The right is critical of how the government has let the field of culture depend on. The right has proposed to discharge this responsibility every year. In this budget too, the Right People's Region is a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1026	In recent years, there are an incredible number of events that have seen the light of day around. Today it is not the city, neither small nor large, nor, for that matter, built or branched, that does not have its own cultural event. The violent increase in such events may seem random, and I know that there are many competent people in cultural life who contribute to this growth. But I would like to remind you of the cultural promise and that the red-green government has increased the cultural budgets by almost 5 billion. kr. I dare suggest that this promise may be a contributing cause for the number of historical games, festivals, opera, dance or theatre performances, sports events or local cultural/theme days of various kinds flourishing across the country. Linking culture and industry has an enormous potential for job development, especially with the large national, but also international, attention given to both the tourism and cultural industries. Cultural industries span a wide range — design, architecture, media, artistic activities and much more. Growth in cultural industries varies between parts of the country. Of course, it's the largest in cities, but they actually have the highest percentage of growth in districts. Today there are 75 000 jobs in the cultural industries, representing 4 pst. of total employment in the country. The value was calculated at 42 billion dollars. kr in 2010. This is such an important industry for Norway, and has such a potential, that we in the Central Party are very pleased that a new action plan on culture and nutrition will be presented in spring 2013. I look forward with excitement to the content of this plan, and have great expectations of what jobs it can trigger both in town and in the countryside. Otherwise, I would like to say a little bit about that of our national minorities who have not yet received their own museum, namely the forest fins. It is true that in 1998, the Storing recognised five different minorities, and we ratified the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities in 1999. This Convention obliges Norwegian society to secure its cultural heritage for the time being, and it has a large majority in the United Kingdom confirmed on several occasions. The foresters have had settlements in seven counties throughout 40 municipalities from the Swedish border to Buskerud. They now have a large collection, but no distribution building. Such a building is planned on Finnskogen in Hedmark. The central party believes that it is important, out of respect for this minority, that we get this in place in a few years, so that they and their descendants have a better chance of taking care of their identity and cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1041	Norway has many creative people, and the fires behind the Arctic Race of Norway are a good example of that. A whole part of the country is behind the initiative on a five-day international bicycle ride in North Norway, with the Tour de France organizer on the team. Bike sport is on the increase here in the country. This has now inspired us to think again about cycling in Norway with the world elite on the starting line. The idea was quite wild initially, but Norwegian, magnificent nature combined with an exciting concept of floating hotels moving around in North Norway between the stages, was so exciting that the idea makers got the very most Tour de France organizer, A.S.O., on the hook. With A.S.O. TV rights are granted to between 150 and 180 countries. The Arctic Race of Norway therefore has an enormous potential as a window to the world and for the marketing of Norway. From a north-eastern perspective, where the tourism industry is referred to as a growing industry, it is difficult to imagine a better project than the Arctic Race of Norway. The realization of the bike ride last July, the week after the Tour de France, is now closer than ever. What remains is to put in place the necessary guarantees for the event. The initiative-makers have a combined part of the country with them, and in cooperation with industry, they have put in place half of the 60-million-guarantee required. In this situation, it is incomprehensible that the government that says it will bet in the north, will not play on layers of the north. The arguments of the government that only installations are supported and therefore have to be said no do not hold. Today's red-green government, with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at the head, went in 2005 with about 20 million. kr to rally-VM, which, like the Arctic Race of Norway, operates Norwegian roads during its event. The Right and Advance Party are today promoting a proposal that we ask the government to come to Stortinget with one thing about how the Arctic Race of Norway can be realized. All praiseworthy mention of the Arctic Race of Norway by countless red-green politicians and state council Trond Giske gets a very hollow sound if today you will not contribute to new treatment in the government. I hope for the longest time that the government will realise that the apparent discrimination between the rally-VM and the Arctic Race of Norway cannot be defended, and that the government parties today will support the proposal that can realise the Arctic Race of Norway – as part of the promotion of cycling and the North. Significant interest is now being notified from the professionals within the bicycle to participate. Now it is also for the government and government to sign up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1059	I have made some considerations around the newspapers, which have been a lot of talk today about media support, as it is now called, and as it says on page 121 in the setting has been a great success – at least according to the Christian People's Party and the government parties. But there are two things that have surprised me about how the papers themselves have behaved in recent years. Already in the early 1990s, the first newspapers began to write their own death certificate by telling us that the paper paper paper was going to die. I think the struggle for readers would be another if the industry itself had plotted to win, not to lose. There were many of us who worked in the media industry in other media, who stood up and wondered why the newspapers took this position on their own. The other thing that surprises me, and which I also think has been unfortunate for the newspapers, is that when you saw the Internet coming, you chose to give away their content – which was paid for in the paperpaper – on the Internet for free. Now the newspapers are facing a difficult job; they need to find new business models to make money on new platforms. And then it's actually so that some newspapers still manage to be offensive on the newspaper section, on what comes on paper, for example. The evening post. My children read every week the evening post Junior with great joy, and I see that the evening post has tried with even more new products on paper that work very well. So that's possible. So I'm going to read the four games on the s. 121, it says that media support is very important, and that this is going to increase. Firstly, it is very strange to me that news has to be printed on dead trees in order to participate in this support, because the support is not allocated to other media. The Internet is growing, and radio and TV keep up well in the competition for readers, viewers and listeners. The question we sometimes ask ourselves in the Progress Party is whether it makes sense for the state to keep an industry that itself says it will die, artificially alive. It is perhaps the case in a modern and forward-looking policy that priority is given to those who have the future ahead of them, not to those who have the future behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1072	Artistic activity of people who fall outside the ordinary community, so-called ‘outsiders’, has a long tradition. The artist is unskilled and often has a special position in society. Kväfjord municipality was the host municipality of one of the country's largest institutions for mentally retarded, Trastad farm. Under the competent direction of Sigvor Riksheim, this institution also distinguished itself as a pioneer to provide talented mentally retarded opportunities to develop its artistic abilities. After the closure of the Trastad farm, Trastad Gallery was completed and opened in 2000 by Princess Martha Louise. The collection of art consists of two elements: the art of Trastad, a collection of art made by the developmentally handicapped at Trastad farm, as well as a smaller national and international collection of Outsider Art. Trastad Samlinger in Kväfjord has long been working to become a national competence centre for Outsider Art. The objectives are to improve public access to and the art of mentally impaired artists at national level, to create educational opportunities at a higher level for creatively disabled and to work for developmentally disabled artists in general and to their opportunities for participation in exhibitions, including in national and international jury exhibitions. This initiative has full support in the three Nordic counties. I am therefore very pleased that a joint committee has so clearly underlined the importance that outsider art artists – practitioners who in some form are mentally ill, have intellectual difficulties or learning difficulties, and who live or have lived on the edge of society – must also have the opportunity to express themselves through artistic creative and performing activities. It is also very positive that the Committee has, in this regard, highlighted in particular the South Troms Museum, the Trastad Collections, and their excellent work for Outsider Art. On the basis of this, I would actually challenge the new Minister of Culture, if she has not already been there, to visit Trastad Collections that have a significant collection – as I said – of exciting art made by mentally retarded people, and to learn and hear about the exciting plans you have there about a national competence centre for Outside Art. There is no doubt that we have great artists in Norway who are mentally retarded and who could develop even more and get much greater recognition if we had managed to bring them up in a better way than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1087	I have asked for the floor in this debate to say a few words about the extensive plans for a major cycle in the North – Arctic Race of Norway. This large project started with a small cycle on Antürja in Ibestad in Troms – Tour de Antürja. This race soon turned out to be so popular that this small village is now visited by a lot of people from abroad when the race takes place annually. Governments have also participated in this process. Based on this success, active and competent people, with Knut Eirik Dybdal at their head, have seen that this must be able to evolve into something more and in a way that involves the entire northern part of the country. This will be guaranteed to be a huge success, and this is best demonstrated by the international interest given to the plans. From the international media, the interest is enormous, and this is probably due to the fact that such a race can happen in a part of the country where it is bright all day, and where it is also possible to see midnightssola. At the same time, the race is to go through a number of municipalities, cities, towns, towns, towns, coastal communities, etc. This is really a real North Area project. Coastal activity will also be central and it is planned to use the Hurtigruten as the base for the exercisers when moving along this route. This is a very unique project that will market the continent in a fantastic way. Everyone understands that this is something I personally really burn for, and together with the other two skeletons from Nordland and Finnmark, we have committed ourselves strongly to getting this important project done. We are many who have faith in this project, and we can now see that the county municipalities, the municipalities, the business community and other actors go into a spice layer to get this done. This is going to be a great national event.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1100	I am very pleased that the government will present a new action plan for culture and nutrition — an action plan covering culture. But I wish that the action plan also had an extended cultural concept, where sport got its place. The motivation for such an action plan is to bring together several actors in the cultural industry who will be able to live from their own activities, increase value creation and employment in cultural industries, and not least more attractive communities throughout the country. I want sports because it's just about the big events. And a big event isn't just a sports event, it also creates a huge amount of activity around it. It's just looking at what was around the World Cup here in Oslo. We are standing in front of the Chess-OL in 2014 in Tromsø, and not least we have after every youth-OL at Lillehammer. Several have been to the pulpit and mentioned a district event that, in my view, also has the same perspective – the Arctic Race of Norway. I'm sure that – through the focus it wants in the media – it will contribute to giving the continent a boost. I come from Finnmark, and we have an example of just such a sporting event, which from being a small event for 20-30 participants, has gradually become a major international event – the Finnmark race. The focus it has had on television has created activities far beyond sport. And it is precisely in that perspective that I want sport and events to and should have their place in a future action plan for culture and nutrition. We went to the elections a few years ago to create 500 new cultural workplaces in Finnmark by 2012, or was it 2014 – I don't remember – but driving is today's news from Finnmark that we are almost in target. That's 27 pst. increase in recent years, and we are approaching the target of 500 new cultural jobs. I think that's quite amazing. It shows that focusing on culture and nutrition in a coordinated perspective creates activity, creates new jobs, and it creates not least attractive communities throughout the country. I would like to conclude with a little comment back to the representative Korsberg, who was so worried that the pursuit of Norwegian sport has increased in the red-green period. I see it as he believes that by lifting the game monopoly, it will be much less pursued. I don't buy that argument, and I don't think Norway is buying it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1115	The Labour Party representative Arild Stokkan-Grande believes that culture is best when the Ministry of Finance and Jens are satisfied. I think that's a strange angle of incidence. The Labour Party was also concerned about the reputation of the Cultural Budget of the Progress Party and concerns about the budget. Then I can tell the Labour Party and the representatives that if they had read the budget, they would have seen that the budget for the Advance Party is higher and with more money than Giske had and Anniken Huitfeldt had when she went on. And they were rallied for that time. This is the cultural budget of the Progress Party: Utramatic. The difference is that the Progress Party will not control culture – or program it, as it has begun to be called now. The Progress Party will not govern the culture of the Council of Culture or the Department. We want it out into the municipalities where it's best done, out across the country. Then the Progress Party will salute Rock vs. Rus, which the government parties could not. Rock Mot Rus on Andøya is just the kind of festival the Progress Party wants. It's a restless festival for 18-year-olds. It's been arranged since the 1980s, and it's voluntary. Think if the government parties could have looked in the direction of something like that, and at least acknowledge that they're doing something right around it. We want to treat the literature the same way; we want to strengthen the Norwegian language. That is why we believe that VAT, which the government parties cannot or will not do anything about, should be treated in a non-discriminatory way on both paper, audio and e-books. As I have said here in a previous article on the media: keeping paper versions of newspapers alive when you see that development is going in a completely different direction – when the media itself asks for equal treatment in the charging system for paper and networks because they see that it is the future, and you don't do anything about it – I find it regrettable. I would like to ask the government to now look at what it can do for the Arctic Race of Norway – the cycle that everyone is talking about – that you can at least move towards supporting it. In conclusion, I think that those who produce Norwegian TV and Norwegian films with public support should also do something for people with visual impairments. That's the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1130	12:43:09]: Good organization for physical activity is one of the best investments we can make in people’s health. Sport may be the most important venue for improving public health and reducing lifestyle diseases. Who we are and where we come from is uninteresting in the community that sport represents. It is also why sport provides opportunities for valuable communities that the country can never replace. Norwegian sport clearly shows how perhaps the very best integration takes place outside policy-driven action. Sport contributes to the building up of language barriers, prevention of school unrest and shifting focus away from crime. Sport is a good venue for the inclusion of people with disabilities. But you can't take all this for granted. The sport is a grassroots movement that is best built from the bottom up. As politicians, our role is to contribute to good conditions for sport so that the sport movement itself can find the good solutions. Success requires that sport and volunteering are independent, and that Norwegian sport policy is anchored in the local settings of sport. For strong state bonds is not a good thing for sport. The exposure that drives all volunteers must not be suffocated by government bonds and a sneaking bureaucracy resulting from direct public support. Therefore, the Right has consistently proposed better opportunities for self-financing for sport and volunteering. Right-wing believes it is essential to bet on sport as a broad movement. Over two million Nordics experience joy, excitement and challenges through organised sport. It strengthens the cohesion and community of our society. It is the wide-ranging sport that greatly motivates and mobilizes Norwegian volunteering and the spirit of virtue. All children and young people must be given the opportunity to play, learn and experience challenges and mastery through sport. Therefore, access to rail and hall capacity is important to ensure. It's now blown up in many places. We need more handball halls, swimming pools and jumpers. Right will give children and young people opportunities. That is why we are proposing to increase the funds for sport by 200 million. kr in 2013. The reduction in funding for sports facilities is more than 2 billion. It is worrying that the government does not take it seriously. It is also worrying that, in particular, the Workers' Party gives great expectations to sport and to parties and election campaigns that they will clearly increase the funds for sport, but unfortunately they will not do so when it comes to spending money on the table and when budgets are to be adopted in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1141	I got some questions from the Council of Cultural States to which I would like to make a few comments, and then I have other comments. I am pleased that the government parties are so interested in what I have said and done. It is the second time in a short time that you have clearly examined with light and light different things I have been away in. On the matter of the National Gallery, there was a debate we had in a very turbulent time for the National Gallery, when Director Sune Nordgren dismantled the entire historical collection. It raised a fundamental question about what a national museum has to do with what is the difference between an art hall and a national museum. That debate was probably more about the debate on the objectives – i.e. about the purpose section – and what is really the state's order for the major art institutions. It is an important debate, but it is a debate that should not be confused with ongoing instructions on what to do on a programme basis. You could imagine that the National Gallery decided to only operate with modern art, for example. and take over the activities of the Contemporary Museum. There was something in the direction that Sune Nordgren was accused of doing. Then it's fair to ask why you have a national museum at all, and that's what the debate was about. With regard to Sogn and Fjordane Theatre and modern dance, there is probably one of several examples to be found that in the past you have had that kind of criteria in the letters of assignment. However, there are some major differences. Firstly, it is clear that the weight in the budgets has become a completely different one. The economy is three times as large as when this letter was probably sent. And the state is in a completely different way a dominant actor. The tightening of this came with Trond Giske's years of diversity. The present Council of State, Gish, gave a clear message that it would follow with the budget allocations to what extent the leaders contained in the letter of allocation were followed up. It was immediately a different song than what had been said before. In addition, more considerations have been taken into account, and in a number of propositions, such as: Christian People's Party has referred to, program work is explicitly mentioned in the context of a stronger governance dialogue. So it's a completely different climate we're discussing these questions today than what may have happened to the examples you've had to find from a distant past. Otherwise, I was actually going to use this speaking time for media policy issues. I don't think this debate gives us time to go into it thoroughly. But I can prepare the Council of Cultural States for these are topics we have to come back to, so she has something to do with Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1154	Yes, it will probably be highly valued.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1157	Towards the end of the debate, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is strong support from various parties for active volunteering. It's said very well that shows that there's a broad consensus about the value of it. Then we need to translate those words further into political action to further develop voluntary policy and facilitate better. First of all, we need to move ahead with the government’s process of red tape of policy, and not least support for the children’s and youth organisations. It is a process that is important and good that the government has started, but has been going on for too long without too many visible results. Secondly, we need to rotate from smaller project funds to operating aid. Thirdly, it is important that VAT compensation is compensation for VAT and not one of many aid schemes with related governance opportunities. Fourthly, it is important to recognise the autonomy, distinctiveness and independence of the state. I would like to spend even more time on the debate on choirs, which I and the Council of State had a little change of line. I am glad that the Council of State answered my challenge carefully positively and promised to look at it in the new year. I just want to show that the Christian People's Party has done some simple re-priorities in the budget and cleared up space for just over 50 million. kr to cows. It's half a percent of the cultural budget, and that's where we get a significant boost for the choir movement – just as a little tip to the council. Here are the amazing opportunities. In conclusion, I would like to say to the representative Stokkan-Grande that we have not been given a very good explanation of this with programming and why it is so important to repeat it in all contexts to those who receive state support from the Ministry of Culture and the Government. Since it's Torbjørn Egner's year, I will answer the representative Stokkan-Grande's comments that I think it might remind me more of Morten Skogmus, who, after Klatremus Lillemann has sung his new poem, says that he doesn't see anything particularly useful with that way there. Then I will answer as Climbermus Lillemann: «Enjoy me here and benefit me there.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1168	I'm not going to draw to the big heights, which the previous speaker did in conclusion. I'm recording that in the case of the Arctic Race of Norway, there is considerable support verbally in this room today. That's not unusual. But in my previous post, I gave the Council of State a challenge that she has not answered. I would like the Council of State to respond to this: why could you go in and give a state guarantee of $25 million? kr to a rally World Cup, while you can't have a dialogue with or meet those who arrange the Arctic Race of Norway? It's a discrimination. Could the discrimination lie a little in that rally-VM was an event that was well anchored in the NRK and was broadcast on TV, while the Arctic Race of Norway has a anchoring on TV 2? After all, when the Council of State does not respond, it begins to ask some such questions, and there is obviously a discrimination between the two. Then someone wants us to submit this proposal to the government. No, we're not going to do that. The proposal is part of the vote and part of the broad debate that has taken place in the Committee. I think all the parties have had a good basis for either supporting the proposal or not supporting it, and possibly making other proposals. So I have not come, so I see no need to submit a proposal that it should end up at the bottom of some pile in the Council of State's office. Spillicides have been mentioned. I don't know how many times, but it has once again been mentioned. I can't quite understand this. If you set up a system so that those in Norway who want to play don't do it in foreign gaming companies, so that the funds stay in Norway and a share of that turnover will be due to sport, I don't understand that there can be less money for sports. The representative Kåre Simensen made that comment. Then I'm just happy for one thing, and that's that Kåre Simensen isn't in the finance committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1179	In Norway, we are proud of the sports heroes, both historical and contemporary. Kniksen, Hjallis, Bjørgen and Northug are just a few randomly selected examples of our long and proud sport tradition. In the field of culture and music, we have equally proud traditions. Excellent artists in contemporary times inherit a tradition of artists such as Ibsen, Munch, Grieg, Flagstad and Vigeland, and it continues both at home and outside of Fosse, Nerdrum, Andsnes, a-ha and Stroemgren, just to name a few. The joy and energy of these ones spreading through their achievements has enormous significance for everyone in sports and culture. On both fields, the top and the width go hand in hand and need each other. But where sport has built a good apparatus to develop and promote the talents, the cultural field does not have the same instruments to stimulate and help the next generation one by one. The right will therefore raise the development of talent in the field of culture. Bringing up the ones in art and culture is resource-intensive. It's about getting into place an entire race. Therefore, if we are to maintain the good breadth of Norwegian cultural life, we must ensure that economic and social unions do not hinder the schooling and stimulation of young talents. Optimal talent development requires both the development of the competence of the cultural school, the availability of teacher forces and talent development programmes at higher Norwegian universities. Therefore, the right-wing party proposes to allocate funds for a pilot project that raises the development of young special cultural talents independently of their background and regardless of their economic and social status. All children and young people shall have the same opportunities. The right considers it essential to ensure the professional quality of cultural training. The government's intention to improve the cultural offer for children and young people is good, but unfortunately the solution is not that good. When the government sells out as a free cultural school, not only is it underfunded, but it makes sure that the necessary incentives and development funds for the cultural school need to be removed, then the government actually takes the baby out with the bath water. Right will strengthen the position where you secure the incentives of the cultural school, so they'll probably be $70 million. the government would use an incomplete cultural offer in the school leisure scheme, rather ensuring the best possible development of Norway's cultural schools, launching pilot projects for talent development and being used to save the cultural schools queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1193	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for a good discussion about the cultural budget. There's a lot that could have been said in such a last post, but I've got some concrete challenges that I'm going to try to answer summarizingly. The representative Korsberg asked for support from Rally Norway. We got 23.5 million. kr over the state budget of a candidate in advance of the 2005 application to be approved as the organiser of the World Cup in rally. The reason for this was that it could involve significant industrial ring-fences, especially in the inland region, where the event was planned to be closed. It is therefore important for me to stress that there were no sporting policy assessments on the basis of the government's decision to support the event, and no gambling media were provided for this event. The representative of Korsberg also had another question in a previous post related to the traffic portal with which the NRK received a clear signal to continue working. I understood the representative of Korsberg so that he feels this as a new area for the NRK. It is therefore good for me to point out that the NRK has been providing traffic information on radio since the 1960s. And when the fantastic technological innovation of Text-TV came in the 1980s, they began to transmit traffic information via Text-TV, and from 2002 they also began to transmit traffic information via mobile phones and networks. So the question related to the traffic portal is not whether the NRK should enter a new area – they do not, but the question is whether they should be involved in the technological development that gives all actors new opportunities, and whether the NRK should continue to be a relevant player in the new media landscape. Then, as a conclusion, I can say that I'm glad that with this, we're going to have a cultural budget, which is also very important for sport and for volunteering. This is an area that has a lot to say about the lives of very many individuals. Voluntaryness is one of the forces that exist in society. It's something of the lifeblood of society, and it's important for our government to push it up as well as about sport. That is what we do, among other things. through the VAT compensation scheme and through the conversion and phase-in of the changes in the key. I am also pleased that in this budget we will be able to increase support for the media and their production support. The fact that we have a wide range of media in Norway has a lot to say for freedom of expression, for expression, for democracy and for persuasion. What I mean is core values for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1211	I thank the Council of State for the answers in her last article. It was a straightforward clarification when it applied to the rally- World Cup. It was supported for commercial reasons, and it did not go beyond the means – in other words, you have the opportunity to support the Arctic Race of Norway. But so far I record that it has met with political disapproval. It's sad, because I think it would have had enormous economic importance throughout the northern part of the country, not least for the travel industry, if you wanted to bet. It's just looking at the bike rides that are arranged around Europe and the media coverage they get. With regard to the web portal, there are new areas in which the NRK moves, with clear warnings both from the Media Authority and the Competition Authority. So to say that this is a continuation of what the NRK was dealing with in the 1960s does not lead to correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1218	The story of Norway from the 1850s until today is the story of a historic freedom project. From being a poor society characterized by great differences, great contradictions and where people stood without any of the most fundamental rights, Norway has moved to become a society where the Nordics are today more enlightened, richer and freer than ever. Perhaps Norway is the most successful society the world has ever seen. So is family policy. This is no longer back than to my tippole father, who grew up on a relatively large farm in the Nord-Trøndelag: he fell in love with the maid. We've seen a lot of examples of that in trombone layers, both in ancient and recent history. It was not accepted by either family or community, and the choice remained between remaining in the family and on the farm or moving. When he chose the love, the result was to move from the farm, move from the municipality and settle in a completely different place. It's no longer since the expectations in the family, in the circle and in society were such that people really couldn't make free choices. Next year, we will celebrate another milestone in Norway's history and in our liberation project, namely women's voting rights, which was also a step in the project to set people free and give people the opportunity to influence their own lives and live the lives they wanted. Stone on stone has built the welfare state to ensure fundamental rights, social security and social security – until we stand where we stand today, with a society of great freedom. We in the Red-Green majority have placed ourselves in that story, and want to contribute to the further growth of proud history. Because there are still many unsolved tasks. We have contributed as much as we can by constantly strengthening parental leave and extending the total parental leave. We have, through the grip we're doing in this budget, equated it between parents, and we've made it increasingly flexible. This has ensured that parents can have time with their children, but also time or opportunity to be out of work. We've improved the cash support. We have strengthened it for those who are waiting in kindergarten, and we have removed it for two-year-olds, because we saw that it was an obstacle to many, especially for the immigrant population, to living the life you want with freedom and the ability to work. We have strengthened the nursery provision by providing full child care coverage, lower price and better quality. It improves the economy, security and stability of families. Outside and in connection with family policy, we have worked too low unemployment, which gives families security for the future, the opportunity to plan their own future, the opportunity to invest in housing, for example. and the ability to engage in meaningful activity. We've secured people's rights in the world of work. We have reversed the attack on the Working Environment Act, which the Bondevik government had. We give through the family security. We help them to avoid unforeseeability and limit the use of overtime. It allows families to combine care and work. We have also contributed to increased purchasing power for families, which further ensures greater freedom for families. To our entire proud story, the right-hand side is now trying to say that this has been a consensus on. No, this has not been the consensus. This is the result of politics. This is the result of centre-left policies over generations. In many ways, the left side of Norwegian policy has had to drag the bourgeois parties after the hair to achieve the results that I have now pointed to, and that we are proud of. Otherwise, in Europe, we also see the results of policies. We see the consequences of free play for the market, and we see the consequences of people not being protected by politics. And it attacks the freedom of the families. Many in Europe have now lost jobs and housing and can look forward to a life of poverty. Desperation prevails. One of the reasons Norway has succeeded so well is that a large proportion of the population are in work. We have ensured that our women can get to work, while women in many other European countries are at home. That's the result of politics. The gender equality struggle in Norway has been primarily a project of freedom, and it has been about justice. But we also see that it has an enormous impact on society. We see that there are similarities between those societies that have high occupational participation among women; they also have a high fertility rate. And there are many of these societies that succeed better than low-professional societies among women. In other words, a prerequisite for family freedom is a strong community, the security of the economy and the rights of the labour market. And a policy of greater diversity, both between people and between cities and rural areas, a policy of irresponsible economic governance and a policy of attack on the work environment law, with more temporary jobs and more overtime demands, will be a direct attack on the family and on the freedom of the family. So that's how many families and children need help. Then society, the community, is to stand up. We do it through family protection, and we now see that several couples themselves are looking for offers to get help. We do it through kindergartens — by having people watching the children, and by language stimulation and social training. We do this through child protection – by providing support to the families and to the child – and sometimes it is also about taking care of them. We also have to do it in the community – each one of us. As individuals, as family members, as neighbours, as volunteers, etc. we have to set up when children call for help. In all these areas, there have been improvements in recent years. More children are caught and more children are given help. It's all about wanting a society where we don't lose sight of each other, a society with little differences and a community with strong communities. We're on the right track. Many unsolved tasks are still there, but what has happened in recent years to the red-green government is being incorporated into the proud Norwegian history of more freedom and better help for the weak in society, and we are going to continue working for them when we also get a majority after the harvest's elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1244	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1247	==References== 15 000 children are born this autumn, from September to December, 15 000 children who are not guaranteed kindergarten next autumn. In September, the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande was high and dark in the media and said that the red-greens are the guarantor of good kindergartens, and that the red-greens will have an extra recording in place to ensure that all one-year-old children's playgrounds. There were probably very many of the parents who were looking forward to this, and looked forward to that when the budget came in the harvest. But there was no money for any extra recording. The progress party has invested money so we ensure these children who were born in the autumn, babysitting next autumn. But my question to the representative is: When does the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande expect that there is a nursery place for all young people, regardless of when they are born?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1258	First, I would like to remind you that the law is a minimum rule, and it is quite possible for the municipalities to have a continuous recording. Many municipalities are able to do so, including: Meråker municipality, which incidentally is run by the Workers' Party. They give priority to spending money on it and have a continuous recording. The municipalities are free to do that. It is not the case that restrictions have been imposed on it, but municipalities have the opportunity to have continuous admissions all the way, and the government encourages this to happen. So that's how we want more recordings. So far, we have had to concentrate the large amount of money on full babysitting and on the maximum price, and now we are also going to put a lot of effort into improving the quality of the nursery. Then we have the ambition to introduce two recordings a year. I can't guarantee now when it comes, but a policy that prioritises tax cuts to the wealthiest in society will not be a step in the right direction given that society can afford to have enough employees in kindergartens and have a continuous admission.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1265	I'll start by giving praise to the representative Stokkan-Grande. He is one of the few from the red-greens who actually go to the pulpit and talk about their own policies, rather than using their whole post to attack the Right. It is gratifying that there are some who are also concerned about talking about what the Workers' Party wants. That's good. After seven years of red-green government, there are still more than 4,000 people working as pedagogues for children, without having any education to do so. After seven years with the Workers' Party at the rudder, the Education Association of the Government describes the kindergarten bet as a rest cutting. Jan Davidsen and the Trade Union criticize the government for discriminating between children and employees in private kindergartens. Rasmus T. Gästland in the Federation of Education writes of the State budget submitted that ‘no recruitment measures have been put in place that could have any effect to ensure the quality of kindergartens on a national basis’. The representative Stokkan-Grande claims that the government is increasing the quality of kindergartens with this budget. What are the quality and proposals in the state budget that will increase the quality of kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1272	We see that studies show that parents are very pleased with the nursery service. When we think about the historical developments that have taken place in ensuring full child-care coverage, it shows what a wonderful effort employees have made in kindergartens, when it has not gone beyond quality. We strengthen the quality – you work with it all the time – and now the government is working with its own big message about it, which is coming quite soon. So it's a problem that we lack pedagogues in kindergartens, and there's too much use of dispensations. The last thing I personally believe is that we have to tighten up, because we cannot accept that this is something that is being ignored. But it's also that the only place you're fighting against political authorities today is in Oslo, which is run by the Right. Linda C. Hofstad Helleland will answer why it's like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1279	First of all, I would like to point out that this is the first time in the last seven years that I have heard a working party politician talk about family protection on his own initiative, without being asked in advance, so I have to acknowledge that. But there's no trace in the budget of having any commitment to it. The representative here uses big words, I get to say – to be a bit diplomatic – about the Labour Party's policy towards the families over a long time. My question is basically: what comes about when the Workers' Party is going to describe its policy towards the families – I don't call it family policy – then you use 95 pst. of the time to talk about rights for adults, in working life and in other ways? Where is the place of young people in the Labour Party's family policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1288	Firstly, I am concerned that we should have a policy in society that ensures a safe, economic environment, stability and security for the family in the workplace. It is important, not least for the children, because if parents lack rights in the workplace, lack jobs and have an unsafe future, it directly affects the children. That being said, it is precisely the children you need to focus on by ensuring the arrangements that reach all the children. That's where we might have to take the challenge. The best thing we can do is to ensure full babysitting and low-price babysitting, so that all children have a real opportunity for kindergarten. Then we need to develop the school further, so that we can both help those who are professionally strong, and in particular catch up with those who need help – and then have an effective system to help those who are facing challenges. Our whole political arrangement is about what's best for the child, and there I feel that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party in many areas are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1300	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1303	Freedom of choice, flexibility and equivalency for all are words that characterize the Family Policy of the Advance Party. We politicians must ensure that the family has the security, the freedom of choice and the flexibility they need at all times. The major dividing lines in Norwegian family policy today focus on how much government should govern and regulate the family's daily lives. Is it today's government that's best to make decisions on behalf of the family, or is it the family itself? The party of progress has faith in the last. The Progress Party believes in the family, the Advance Party wants to make everyday life easier for the family, and we want to give the family flexibility and not put obstacles in the way of inequalities and different solutions. This is at the heart of the family policy of the Progress Party. When the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande talks about the consequences of politics, there are consequences of the policy that this government is pursuing, which the Progress Party does not agree with. Family policy is often on the agenda, and I thought I would keep this post a little chronological. The first meeting of many families with the family management of politicians starts with maternity leave. This government has been irritating from overdrafting the family by introducing a third of the parental quota and having its own parent quota. 14 weeks of spring quota to come in 2014. It is a difficult system to manage, and the Progress Party had seen that money was also spent on getting ahead of an Internet-based solution, so that we could facilitate this work for the parents. There is also no flexibility in that system. It's no freedom of choice for the family. There's a system that goes beyond the family, and not least it goes beyond the children. This is something the Progress Party is taking a great deal of distance from, and if the Advance Party is in government, we're going to work to remove this feather quota and let the families themselves have the right to control the parental leave. That's the kids. That's the seventh and the last thing that goes out. They must not be at home with one of their parents, but must be in kindergarten or for the day-to-day. As I said, the party wants the family to distribute these weeks themselves. There are probably some of you who saw that the NRK not long ago sent a programme on poor families in Norway. It made a strong impression. Yesterday TV 2 showed a report from the Salvation Army that could report a significant increase in poor families of children who visited the Salvation Army. It is alarming that poverty among children has increased during this government, despite the SV election commitments that poverty should be eliminated. The Progress Party takes a lot of action in its budget to help those families who are struggling. Increasing child welfare is one of the steps taken by the Progress Party; it is shameful that nothing has been done about it in the last 17 years. Especially when we know that a lot of professional bodies say that by increasing child-responsiveness, it will certainly help a lot of poor families. Back to the chronological order. After the children are born, the family has the choice between choosing a day’s mother, a cash allowance or a nursery for the children when the parents are ready to go to work again. Today the families don't have much choice because the government removed the cash support for the two-year-old last year. The Progress Party wants to reintroduce cash support for the two-year-olds as well. We want to give families the freedom of choice to choose babysitting for their children in the first years. The result of the government's conversion has led to several local cash support schemes, and that may not have been the intention, but a consequence of the fact that the municipalities are now giving families freedom of choice for those families who want to use cash support. The word «freedom of choice» cannot be said too often, and it is important for the Advance Party. Look at how things have evolved in recent years. Hospitals report record births in July and August, some actually ask for cesarean section to be continued at birth so that they can be born before the end of the period before the day-care centre expires on 31 August. And the deadline for making these children went out last week! We can no longer have this date regulation, like having to be born before 31 August in order to have children's playgrounds and to be born before 1 July in order to be entitled to a father's allowance. Then it was gratifying that in the fall we could not only hear that the Right believed that we would now have more recordings in place this year, but that the representatives of the government parties were also out in the media and said that this had to end, and that we now had to get more recordings in place. The Progress Party has done so in its budget. We have put in funds to ensure that they are approx. 15,000 children who were born this fall, right to kindergarten next year. The promotion party wants equal rights for kindergartens regardless of when the child is born in the year. It costs money, we are fully aware of that, but we have the political will to prioritize it, and not just talk about it, not just push the problem over to the municipalities, and as the representative Stokkan-Grande said, this gets the municipalities to take care of themselves. I observe that in many debates the government parties have taken credit for full child care coverage. I want to remind you that this honor is the private kindergartens that are going to have. We wouldn't have been there today if it hadn't been for the private initiatives. Therefore, it is disappointing that this year the government has not been able to achieve full equal treatment for private and municipal kindergartens, especially after the development we have seen, namely that the nursery funding was transferred to the municipalities. There have never been so many differences and uncertainties in private kindergartens as they are now. There is little point in talking about quality and manning standards before we have put in place full equal treatment and funding to the state again. That is what the Progress Party wants, and in order to get full equal treatment, we are putting it into our budget. Not all children are well in Norway. Too many children need the help of child protection. When the state is going to go in and help these children, it is so important that we give them the help and the security they have not received in the family they were in before. Then it's a political task to make sure that the help that's being determined is followed up. We've had child protection on the agenda here several times. I'm also going to give some honey to the government that comes up with earmarked funds for municipal child protection. It is very nice, although the Progress Party believes that there is not enough money – it should have been more – because we see that more and more municipalities have more children that they have to take care of, and that there is not enough money with them. But there are major challenges, and criticisms have come both from the National Audit Office and from the statesmen. It's something the government has to take seriously. The Progress Party believes that the development we have now seen in relation to the construction of institutions for the benefit of foster homes has gone too far. It is very worrying to see that there are too many acute relocations, movements from foster homes, and we must not forget that each child is different from different needs. They need individual arrangements, and then we need foster homes and institutions. That's where the Progress Party spends a lot more money than the government does for the purchase of private places, because we see that we need that diversity in child protection. I want to draw up the municipality of Larvik with the «Project Complete Child Protection in Vestfold» – which is probably well known by the Council of State, since it comes from her county. The project in the municipality of Larvik has to do with total care, and has its own team that goes in early. This is something I hope the Council of State will take with it in the further work on child protection, and it is important to get out to several municipalities. So there's a team that's getting in early and helping out at home, and there's a collaboration across different levels, where everyone's trying to help this family and get it in the right place, instead of maybe having to take kids out of the home. Having complete child protection, like in Westfold, where you have user involvement, where the municipalities and county councils work together, is very important. The Progress Party looks forward to the debate we are going to have over Christmas – and during the spring – on child protection, because it is going to be an important issue. We have to take over the criticism that has come – and let the government take it over – and look at what we can do immediately to help these children. Finally, the budget of the Progress Party means more to the families of children in tax relief. We'll bet on kindergartens, and we'll bet on child welfare. We reintroduce cash support for the two-year-olds, and we strengthen municipal child protection, while giving room to buy more private places. The party of progress is the party of the family. We want to give the family greater freedom of choice and flexibility in relation to what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1347	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1350	For the Labour Party and the Government, it is an important principle that children in child protection should be given the measures that are appropriate to their needs. It is important for us to make use of our own appliances and to use private services where they are better or an offer we do not have in the public sector. The advance party's gonna cut down 550 million. kr in the State Child Protection Agency, and will then spend 300 million. kr back to the National Child Protection Agency for the purchase of private services. What the representative is asking for, I have today. 51 pst. the current use of the measures by private operators. A good service today, and the measures that are best for the children. Then I wonder: can the Progress Party explain what is the idea behind their budget proposals, which is a frenzy of the entire state child protection system? Is the Progress Party away from the principle of choosing the right action for the child, the most important being that the action is private and commercial? Is it a privatisation ideology here that takes care of the child's best interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1357	When the committee was in Stavanger a month and a half ago, the former state council told Tora Aasland, who is now in the county, that she is concerned about the quality of the state child protection. The Progress Party wants diversity in child protection, and the Progress Party wants to make more use of private institutions, because there are many well-functioning, good private institutions that are not being used. What we also see in the new age, which we're going to deal with later, is that the government itself admits that we have too little money to buy private places, especially in the West Region. The government itself has invested extra money this year to make use of the purchase of private services. We need a diversity, and we need the municipalities that see these children to have access to the places that are always what the child needs – it's foster home, a private or a state institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1366	The representative Horne said in his statement that 14 weeks of parental leave for father is to the detriment of the children. And I was wondering for a moment if the representative thought it was harmful for little kids to be with Dad. But luckily, it wasn't that bad. The representative said it was because the children missed out on time with one of their parents. Then I really wonder if it is an employer or cultural pressure from the environment that prevents father from being with the child? Yes, that's almost any reason – then I think we have to get to the bottom and not remove the feather quota. The question to the representative is, what is the reason why dad can't use his father's quota to get valuable time alone with his baby, whom I thought it would be very pleasant for most fathers to get to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1373	Representative Christina Nilsson Ramsøy of the Centerpartiet believed that the government had gone too far in governing the families in expanding the feather quota. Now let's just do that. The Advance Party believes that the family itself can be allowed to distribute these weeks. Whether it is father or mother who chooses to stay at home longer, the Advancement Party believes that it must be up to the individual family to decide for themselves, and that they themselves can distribute these weeks. We also believe that the modern man today naturally wants to be at home as much as possible with his children. But we see that very many private entrepreneurs, sole proprietors and not least farmers do not have the opportunity to take out 14 weeks of paperwork, and that in those families it becomes the mother who has to go out to work earlier than she had thought, because they do not have the opportunity to distribute these weeks, and because mother cannot take over the weeks that father cannot use. This is the essence of the Advance Party's policy in this particular field. We want the family to benefit themselves from these weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1384	On August 13 this year we could read on the website of the Progress Party: Rolling children’s recordings now! And the representative Horne has also said in his statement that the Progress Party is now making sure that their proposals in the budget are rolling. In order to succeed in a fully flexible or rolling recording, it is estimated to cost between 3 and 5 billion. kr. The full year effect of two admissions per year is estimated at 1.44 billion. kr. Furthermore, it is estimated that it will require approx. 1 000 new pre-school teachers with two admissions per year. My question to the representative Horne will then be: When money has been spent on an increased municipal framework by the Progress Party, is this earmarked for a rolling recording, or will these funds compete for all other good purposes also in the municipal sector? Is it taken into account to provide sufficient staff for all the new kindergartens required for a rolling recording?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1393	First of all, I think it’s great that SV – I want to give it a hand – now goes in to get more recordings in place. The purpose of the Advance Party is that it should not be a special date; it should be possible to apply in kindergarten places for all 1-year-olds. What the Progress Party has done is that in the next year's budget we have at least secured them. 15,000 children who are born this autumn, a right to a nursery for the next autumn, and then have put money into the municipal framework, so that more children's playgrounds are put in place for those children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1398	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1401	The family is the most important of society's small and large communities. The right is concerned with the granting of family responsibilities for freedom of choice in the field of education, care and education. At the same time, it is one of the most fundamental tasks of society to contribute to the safe and well-growth of all children. The right will therefore focus on improving the quality of kindergarten and child protection in order to ensure that the child’s best interests are at the heart of society’s efforts for children. Nine out of ten children now go to kindergarten. Kindergartens are an essential venue for promoting the development of children. Employees are the nursery's most important resource and key to providing children with a safe and stimulating day-to-day day-care for children. There is a lot of good quality work in the kindergarten today. But kindergarten development has gone fast, and there has been no focus on quality raising. The proportion of skilled workers is low. Only three out of ten who work in kindergarten have preschool teachers. The sector has some 40,000 unskilled assistants. In particular, the right will focus on continuing training for those working in kindergarten to ensure that all children receive a good childcare provision.We need to take action to raise the quality of kindergarten, and therefore the Right proposes a substantial strengthening of quality work in addition to what the government has put into its budget proposal. Private kindergartens have contributed to the wide diversity of childcare provision, further development of the kindergarten sector, greater parental influence and increased demands for efficient resource use in the sector. Recent user surveys show that parents are more satisfied with private kindergartens than municipal ones. Public claims are made on private and public kindergartens. Then it's also important that they get equal terms. Like the Education Association and the Trade Union, the right is concerned that children in private kindergartens should not have the same opportunities as children in municipal kindergartens. So we want to strengthen non-discrimination, so that it increases to 96 pst. in 2013, in order to follow-up on the planned ramp-up plan to which it was drawn up. For the right, it is important that the economy does not prevent parents who want to choose kindergarten for their children from being able to do so. Therefore, the Right proposes raising the maximum price by 200 kroner a month, just to allow us to offer more families with low incomes lower kindergarten prices than today. In order to ensure that kindergarten offers reach all those who can benefit from going to kindergarten, the Right will also continue to offer free nursery facilities to all participants in the Immigrant Introductory Programme. The right proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to municipalities so that they can offer free kindergarten to all children of refugees and asylum seekers participating in the introduction programme. Good child protection is child protection with a wide variety of actors, responses and offers. All children under the care of child protection are entitled to a well-adapted offer. When the State assumes parental responsibility for children, it assumes a particularly great responsibility to ensure that they have a good and safe childhood. The right is concerned about the many cases where children fail by the public. Therefore, we will give more priority to child protection work in direct contact with the children in the municipalities, rather than to child protection bureaucracy in the state child protection system. We will strengthen the ability to choose the action that helps the individual child the best, regardless of who gives the help. It is private and ideal child protection services that provide the diversity of offers needed to offer tailor-made services in the choice of measures for individual children. The own evaluation of the National Audit Office, the Health Authority and the Government has revealed serious failures, system failures and the need for changes in both national and municipal child protection. Municipalities have too little capacity and for small trade unions. This, together with the lack of quality assurance and internal control, has led to too many deadlines, incorrect instructions and concerns messages, decisions taken without hearing the child, and lack of evaluation of actions. Services for children and young people and families in vulnerable situations do not comply with defined objectives and rules. The Ministry has not ensured the necessary governance information, the county council has an unacceptable length of procedure and there is insufficient research. This is very serious for many children. There are too many children out there who don't get the help they need, but they have a right to. On the right, funds will be earmarked for the operation and development of municipal child protection in addition to what the government proposes, precisely to improve the ability of municipalities to provide rapid and good help to children who need it. Child protection in municipalities is the first to meet the children in need of help, and it is therefore essential that municipal child protection catches children who are at risk of care failure as early as possible or need help for other reasons. The right considers that the most important thing is to ensure that each child is given the best possible response as quickly as possible. We will increase the possibility of choosing private child protection services, because private individuals contribute to the diversity of offers that contribute to tailoring. The right is concerned that society provides opportunities for everyone, and we will focus our efforts on helping the most vulnerable children. It is essential to seal the holes in the safety network so that several of the children outside are caught. This is why we want to strengthen projects that give children in low-income families the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, and to invest in work-training schemes to increase the number of permanent poverty and employment. The right considers that cash support is important to ensure that families who want it can choose different care solutions for their children for the first year as best for each child. Therefore, we will have solutions that strengthen family freedom of choice rather than limit it. We'll make it possible for more people to have more time with their children in the first year of life. Therefore, the Right proposes to continue the cash support for 1-year-olds and reintroduce the right to cash support for children between 2 and 3 years of age. Still, it is important for the Right that parents get to share in the very valuable first time with their children. We recognise mother and father as equivalent caregivers, and we will give parents the opportunity to freely share the entire leave period. In order to ensure equal rights and flexibility in parental leave withdrawals, the Right has proposed a full review of the parental leave regime in order to simplify the current regime and make it more flexible in order to equalise mother and father as equivalent care providers. The national audit has recently shown an unacceptable high level of errors in Nav’s parental care procedure. The Court of Auditors takes a very serious view of the situation and points out that many of the errors relate to a complex and detailed regulatory framework that is not unambiguous. Therefore, the right has proposed a review of the entire parental leave scheme in order to simplify the scheme and cooperate, and to a greater extent assimilate the rights of mother and father in that area. For the Right, freedom of choice remains important in family policy. For the right, there is still one of the most important tasks facing society, ensuring the most vulnerable children and the dense safety net so that vulnerable children in need of help are caught early enough and get the best offer that is most suitable for the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1439	In newspaper headlines after newspaper headlines in the last six months, we can read that Right wants continuous babysitting. We could read it in the Address Paper on 30 June 2012, we could read it in the Evening Post on 2 September 2012, which included. says that the Right Party and the Advance Party will destroy the government's date hysteria. We can read it in an NTB message on September 2nd, and in the Glaamdalen newspaper as late as October 9th this year, after the government has presented its budget. It should be expected that a party that is so high on the track in the case of ongoing kindergarten admissions, which goes out when parents are at the most doubtful that it might be a little difficult for them, in a way it realizes through its budgets. I have to say that I think it's fairly bold of the Right Party to be so high on the track, but when you find that you can actually do something about it in the budgets of the year, you haven't added one penny to it. Isn't this to trick your kindergarten parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1448	I am very pleased with that question, and I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is also beginning to engage in a more flexible admission into kindergarten. The red-green claim that we have full babysitting in Norway, but we do not. Children who are born after 31 August and are one year old are not entitled to kindergarten at all. It makes it terribly difficult for a lot of parents who are planning to go to work after the end of the maternity leave. Therefore, the Right wants a more flexible admission, with more flexibility in the kindergarten system, as it was before the government forced through transfers to the framework, and the flexibility was lost. That is why we propose freedom of establishment, municipal prices and full equal treatment in the Right-wing Programme. I hope it goes through at the Right National Meeting, so that the Right can ensure full flexibility in the nursery reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1453	There has been a lot of discussion about the relationship between manning and quality in kindergarten lately. Town Councillor Torger Ødegaard from the Right has stated that there is no link between the number of employees and the quality of the nursery. For me, quality is acting in kindergarten, among other things. that the children are seen and given the care they need. Then it's essential how the adult density is. Does Hofstad Greece support the Ødegaard opinion that there is no link between the number of employees and the quality of kindergarten? If so, what is the quality of the nursery?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1460	This was also a very good question, and I want to answer very clearly: No, I do not support that statement, because I am convinced that quality in kindergarten is closely related to a pedagogical, safe and stable staff. That's it. I have been a little worried that especially SV has now gone so high on the track towards Oslo, all the time SV- and workers' party controlled Trondheim has many more children per employee. Of the five largest cities in Norway, red-green Trondheim is at the bottom in terms of adult densities in kindergartens. Then there is a sudden drive that SV now has towards right-wing Oslo, very special, when they can't fix up in their own government in Trondheim. There they have focused on the number of places – not on quality, and that makes Trondheim the worst out among the big cities, and that's a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1467	The goal of the red-green government in the kindergarten is high quality and low price. Right wants to introduce state rules on the income upgrading of the parental payment. It is not unproblematic to introduce the income upgrading of the parental payment in order to balance the differences between the poor and the rich. The reason for this is that income modulation will weaken incentives for entering a job or increase the employment rate for parents with the lowest income, because the rates will increase with increased income, and they will reach the highest rate if they reach a certain level of income. The right-hand side also suggests raising the monthly nursery rate by NOK 200. Increasing child care rates is an unsocial measure, which will make childcare facilities less accessible to low-income families. The question for the representative of Hofstad Helleland is: What does the Right think about introducing schemes that can help to get more families caught in the so-called poverty trap?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1476	For the middle class and those who earn well, the maximum price is a very good scheme. Among those who earn poorly and have low income, there are more people who have to pay more for a nursery than before the maximum price was introduced. There are some families who experience it, and it's a very bad thing. When you have free core time, which you have in some municipalities, it is parents who have very high income — in fact, millions of wages — that almost don't pay anything for their kindergarten. We don't think that's fair. We want everyone who wants to send their children to kindergarten to have the opportunity. So we're going to take 150 million. kr to immigrants and refugees on the introduction programme, so that their children have free kindergarten. Let's take 150 million. kr to those with the lowest income, so that poor finances should not be an argument for not sending their child to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1483	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1486	In two plenary debates, I have used the opportunity to talk about equality. One of the main reasons I got involved in politics was that I was concerned with justice – on the basis of social status, ethnicity, religion or gender. It was a matter of course for me that boys and girls should have the same opportunities here in the world. But experience has taught me that unfortunately it has not been or is not so, and in the autumn we received part two of the investigation from the Skjeie Committee, NOU 2012: 15, Equality Policy, which documents this. We're not as equal as we like to believe, and we still have a long way to go before we have equality in Norway. It is middle-aged men who have the greatest influence on politics. It's women who traditionally take care of homes and children. The expectations of society are tragic gender stereotypes. An example here is the draft law we discussed in this Chamber on Monday, where it was considered necessary to include a new legal provision in the Equality Act, which states that workers who are or have been on parental leave, among others. have the right to the same or similar position and not to be overlooked for remuneration. It should be a matter of course, but the reality unfortunately shows that long parental leave can lead to weaker career development and higher pay differentials between women and men. Fortunately, we have an equality minister who takes this seriously and a red-green government that provides good policy in this area. I am looking forward to the first report on gender equality in the spring of 20 years. Now it might seem like I'm blackpainting the situation a little bit, and I'm going to refer to Stokkan-Grande, which had a slightly opposite starting point. Of course, we have come a long way in the gender equality field in Norway in relation to very many other countries. One of the main reasons for this is that women are a natural part of working life. Work and a self-employed economy are the keys to women's liberation. Parental leave is one important measure here, and I am proud of the efforts the red-green majority has made for the extension of leave and not least for the spring quota. In this way, the father is given a self-written place in the child’s life from an early age and an important break with the employer to demand his right to be at home with the children. Kindergartens have also been essential to a more equal society. They have given both parents the opportunity to participate in working life, and their children have a fine opportunity for social contact with other children, as well as a safe and developing everyday life framework. Kindergarten is the first step in education for most children today and an important arena for children’s social development, language development and learning. SV is very pleased with the large children's hail lift we have had. That's probably the closest thing we've come to a revolution in a long time. The essential future will be to strengthen kindergarten through higher professional quality of provision. The key to this is increased competence among employees. This is precisely why priority is given to measures increasing recruitment to the pre-school teaching profession and strengthening the competence of staff. Increased competence and good staffing will strengthen the educational provision of kindergartens and improve the follow-up of children with special needs and those affected by care failure. How we treat the children today determines what kind of future we have. The perspective and opinions of children and children should be raised in policy. SV works for the best of children at all stages; through pregnancy, in the health centre, in kindergarten and school, in child protection and in health services. Fortunately, both the Minister for Children and the Minister for Knowledge are repeating this constantly. Freedom of choice is not real in our society as long as women and men do not have the same ability to support themselves or influence society politically and economically. Equality and freedom of choice are primarily a right, but society as a whole also serves to increase equality. SV believes that gender equality policy is a shared responsibility and that public authorities have a special responsibility to work for equality in all social arenas. This contrasts with the right-hand side, which we have already seen in the debate that this is, to a large extent, a private matter and which trusts that the individual family itself provides equality, and that it thus becomes equality in society. This has been tried for a number of years, without us having managed to achieve gender equality in Norway so far. SV puts justice and redistribution in the center. Then it is important to have a policy that takes everyone where they are, and with a special responsibility for the very weakest. Action is important to make families more equal, for the benefit of their mother, father and children. We also need to ensure that the children who really need to be seen are – through quality in kindergarten and strong child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1515	The representative Kvifte Andresen spoke very warmly about equality, and that equality was one of the issues that made her engage in politics. But sometimes I wonder about equality for SV only applies to women, and not men. Today, after a break in life and in association with care, men are often discriminated against in relation to women. With regard to the parental leave and the parental allowance, which has been important for SV to get in, we see that father does not have an independent right to benefit. When we got the budget this year, where the government is adding to increase the spring quota to 14 weeks, the Progress Party was a little disappointed that no room had been found for giving Father the independent right to profit. Because there are too few fathers who today have independent earnings rights. So my question is, does the representative agree that Dad should be given an independent right of use?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1523	First of all, I would like to point out that, for SV, it is of course about measures that concern both men and women, in order to achieve equality. The family quota is an excellent example of this. It has ensured that men too have a greater right to be at home with the children from being newborns. Not least, it has been important to employers, because some employers still believe that father should not be at home with his newborn children. So it's a very important measure, also for the benefit of the man – and for the woman. As regards the autonomy of fathers, there is a relatively costly measure. If you take out 12 weeks, the cost is about 1 billion. kr. If you take out 14 weeks, which is next year's, the cost is much higher. So far the government has not prioritised it. But I can say that we in the SV's work programme for the next period consider including it as a point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1530	The representative gave me the key when she spoke hot for equality, and there are SV and the Christian People's Party agree in many areas. She talked about freedom of choice and freedom. It could be interesting to get the representative from SV to elaborate a little more on what is freedom for modern women anno 2012. Is it freedom if you choose what SV wants, or is it freedom if you choose what you want? Is it true that if you want to have the kids a little longer at home after the parental leave, and want to use the cash support for the kids is three years, then there is no freedom, then you have to be overruled, while if you want to make other choices, which are more in line with the representative Andresen's own view of the matter, then is there freedom? It would have been nice to get an explanation of what you put in this term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1535	The concept of freedom is difficult, and you have an incredibly wide range of definitions on it. And one of the areas where the Christian People's Party and the SV do not agree on what is the best form of freedom is about cash support. You might say that cash support for some families gives either mother or father – very rarely father – a real freedom of choice to be at home and receive some money. But for a large number of families, cash support would mean that you had to be at home because it had not paid off financially for Mother to go out to work. Several investigations, including in recent years, have shown that cash support is a barrier to the working line for very many, especially migrant women. We believe that the freedom to actually choose to be out of work, to get that incentive, is a very important freedom as the freedom of a few that the Christian People's Party believes will provide cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1540	On August 2, 2005, Kristin Halvorsen said the following: ‘We’re going to have full kindergarten coverage by the end of 2007, and by the end of 2008 we need a guarantee in Norway that is such that three months after you apply for a nursery place.’ The right to kindergarten is limited to children born before 1 September. However, in Norway, children are also born after 1 September. Three out of ten children are born after 1 September. So the red-green right to babysitting excludes three out of ten children. However, the State budget claims that there is full childcare coverage in Norway. Does the representative, Kvifte Andresen, think that it is right to claim that today we have full child care coverage, and that all one-year-olds who have the right to a place – and for whom you want a place – get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1550	We have full child care coverage in Norway based on the guarantee given, namely that the child was born before 1 September is guaranteed to stay. So luckily, you've met that requirement. I fully agree with the representative of Hofstad Helleland that it is sad that not everyone gets kindergarten at the moment they are one year old. Even I have a granddaughter born in February who probably does not have kindergarten until she is one and a half years old, and I really wish she had. But now it has been shown that we have both had a lack of kindergarten facilities and a lack of competent employees for kindergartens, and we have prioritised using the money to increase competence rather than more places quickly. But we've also written in the budget that we're working to get two recordings in a relatively short time, and then the goal is that it's going to be a continuous recording. And once again, we remind ourselves that one recording per year is a minimum requirement. Fortunately, many municipalities can offer more children kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1559	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1562	In the ideal society, we should want all kids to grow up in a core family where everyone is happy with each other, and everyone is nice to each other. No matter how this core family is constructed, whether it consists of mother and father and young, lone parents and young, or two fathers or two mothers and young, all would live in peace, tolerance and love. But it's not like that. Some kids live under conditions that we cannot imagine. Our imagination simply does not allow us to take into account how some of the kids in one of the richest countries in the world are doing. I have been rapporteur in a small municipality. A few years ago, a very serious and very serious infringement case came up – a matter so incomprehensible that one cannot imagine anyone can do this to young people, and especially not to their own, a matter in which no one suspected what was going on, not until one of the attackers himself called it, a matter that was nevertheless so full of evidence that it was not possible to escape from the attackers. This case taught me that the unmistakable is possible. There are things that are so cruel that a person just doesn't understand it. The reality is sometimes much worse than fiction. It also taught me how important child protection is and how important child protection is. It taught me how important it is that the first-line service in each municipality has quality and quantitatively good child protection. It also taught me that child protection and all other services must interact well. This case was quite terrible for the kids who were exposed. There's no word for it, really. But something important came out of this, and it was that the whole community became aware of the importance of child protection, and it gave the big community the understanding that child protection is going to intervene in some families. In the past, there has been mainly the reverse focus in the media, most of which looked up the type ‘child protection took away my baby’. Child protection has usually been produced as the big, ugly wolf, and parents have had sympathy almost in any case. This matter did something to the opinion. It was understood that child protection has one of the most important tasks of society, that it should actually interfere with the family in cases where the children are not well off. With this experience – which, of course, I would prefer to have escaped – I am pleased that the Centre Party and the Red-Green Government are concerned that it is investing in child protection, and that this effort is being made in the municipalities where one is close to those who need this help. It may be possible for child protection in municipalities and for all the other units in contact with children and young people to discover conditions where children are not doing well. That is why I am very pleased that we have received a strengthening of municipal child protection services, where we have earmarked 500 million in the period 2011 to 2013. kr to posts, skills enhancement and supervision. Only in the 2013 budget will municipal child protection be strengthened by nearly 175 million. kr. The center party wants a child protection where the kids are in focus. The child’s best interests should be taken into account in the choice of measures, and we believe that more work will be done on prevention and less on repair. This means that both health centres and not least family protection come into play as important actors. Health centres are an important player in prevention work for children and young people. These are not within the scope of the family committee, but do an important job. Family protection is the other important player who works preventively. This is a statutory lowthreshold offer that is publicly funded. The service is interdisciplinary and staffed at specialist level. The offer is free, and you do not need referral from a doctor or other healthcare professional to get there. This service today consists of the activities of the public and church offices. Family protection offices provide a good range of services for which society today is in great need. It's not easy to be a parent in today's society. It may never have been, but it is perhaps more difficult today than it has ever been. It is also not easy to be a child or a youth. Family protection can help the entire family, both young and adults who are in a difficult situation, before it degenerates and gets worse. The centre party is very pleased with the job done in family protection, and we are engaged in developing two-track family protection, so that family offices around the country can continue this very important job for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1595	It was a strong contribution from the representative and perhaps a waker for all of us – that we have to stand together politically to ensure that the municipalities are able to see such things as this. That's not what I was going to ask questions about, but it goes on the representative's line to Linda C. Hofstad Helleland about poverty. Poverty among families with children has increased during this government, although it was an important struggle for one of the parties in the government. Progress has been made in increasing the number of children. We have done that in every budget, because we know that increasing child welfare – which is a universal arrangement for families – is helping to combat child poverty. My question to the representative is: Does the Central Party agree that child protection should be increased? So it hasn't increased in almost 17 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1606	We agree that child welfare is a good tool, but we have now prioritised – and we have given a very strong priority – an increase in kindergartens. We have spent a lot of money, and we have prioritised other purposes that also strengthen the lives of families with children in a very good way, among other things. a conversion of the cash support to the small children, with the extension of parental allowances. We agree that we should look at child welfare, but we have not been able to do everything at once. We haven't prioritised it in this game, but maybe we'll do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1613	I would also like to stand behind the representative Horne and say that it was a very strong and very nice post that the representative Grøtting made. My question concerns consumer policy. Recently, representatives of the Central Party in particular have been very concerned about prohibiting anything that is unhealthy; they have been on a very ban line. Then I think about e.g. The cheek egg regulation, I think of cardboard wine, of solarium. After all, I see the Center Party as a party that trusts most people and wants people to take responsibility for their own lives. They will give people confidence and freedom of choice. Does the representative Groetting support the ban line that the Central Party has now pursued in policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1623	It is probably due to a misunderstanding that we have put ourselves on a ban line, because we do not have that at all. I do not remember that there was any prohibition on cardboard wine because whether it was raised from a larger whole as a big deal. But I would like to remind you that there were a lot of people who thought that this smoking ban was a terrible thing. Even smokers in today's society applaud the smoking ban. I would say that it has played a major role in public health in Norway. I don't put myself behind any such ban line, but sometimes I think it's wise to be able to resort to it – but we're not going to do it very often at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1632	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1635	We are debating the State budget, Framework Box 2. It tells us something about the fact that what we're really involved in this debate is the distribution of the state's funds. That's what we do with every day in the Great Government these days. We're distributing a cake for 1065 billion. kr. Looking at what the cake is used for, we see that large parts of it go for repair. Last week the Stortinge decided to use 112 billion. SEK for the specialist health service until next year. We've decided to spend 13 billion. To the police. We're going to decide to spend about six billion dollars. kr for the protection of children. We decide to spend about 350 billion. DKK for social security costs. A significant proportion of it is repair costs. Then I have mentioned about half of the budget. What is the role of family policy? How far in there can it be to admit that children do not deal with public services alone – whether it is Nav, child protection, health stations, PP services or other things – but that it simply starts in the family, that it is the parents and the family that provide the basis for safety, care and quality of life? It is a paradox that in the distribution of this large cake, where most of it is about repair, the importance of the family disappears and the concept of ‘family policy’ disappears altogether. It is a paradox in this picture that the red-green message about family policy is largely about three things. One is that family policy is referred to as just a means of achieving the goal in other areas — especially in relation to the working line, the social economy and the macro-economics — and, secondly, that the ability of parents to care for their children is questionable, and what can happen if the children spend too much time with their parents. Thirdly, we talk a lot about early intervention, early intervention. It's a lot of use, we've heard this today as well. That's good, and that's Christian People's Party busy. But it gets kind of hollow when you talk about early action, early intervention, and forget to put in the effort where it all starts. The Christian People's Party will not weaken the family, the Christian People's Party will strengthen the family. This is about two things: first, trust and, secondly, support. When it comes to trust, giving parents the opportunity to create a daily life that allows you to live a good life — freedom of choice. The reintroduction of the cash support is a key. Greater freedom to distribute parental support is another key. No to full-time school, and yes to two nursery receptions, which provide flexibility and freedom of choice in everyday life. No to the constant outbursts of state councils in the red-green government about how broken it is for the kids if their parents get too much time with them, and if they start too late in kindergarten – which tells Norwegian parents that they really aren't good enough to take care of their kids. It creates uncertainty in the parents. No to a policy that says you're worried that some parents want to spend more time with the kids and less time at work. Secondly, a policy to strengthen the family must be to support the family. I've read a part of the state budget, and it's said something nice about family protection here today. But what you can read from the state budget on family protection can be interpreted in a simple way: when it says that, it means that this area is not interested in the Council of State. Those sections tell a very clear message. In other areas, there are other concepts. The Christian People's Party has a powerful addition to family protection, which should be part of a long-term escalation plan. We introduce a children's allowance – SEK 5000 per child per year – that strengthens the family's economy, and it will be a powerful tool against child poverty. I'm going to come back to Child Protection in a later article, but I wanted to mention, while I have the floor, it's disappointing that this year we won't get a majority to comment on the Association adopted. It is a shame not to give them a handshake after the stories we have heard, and the Norwegian family policy has imposed on these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1656	This is one of the areas where we in the Left have the most changes in our alternative state budget. It's one of our big bets, and it's about poor children: the 102,000 children that, according to the 2010 statistics, grew up in low-income families. The reason why we promise it is that the government's showcasing album of an overview of all the press releases where the government is allowed to produce the state budget in the government's way is not the word 'poverty' mentioned once. What we have done in the state budget is to make a number of proposals, over 2.3 billion. kr; we're talking about getting a real distribution between low-income and high-income families. The left believes that it is our job to distribute income between the rich and the poor. We believe that the state budget should compensate for differences. It's strange to think in this room on the one hand that all the income differences can be offset by the tax bill, and on the other hand only by the grant side. We believe that you need to use both the tax slip and the way you distribute benefits in society, to be able to reach exactly what you want. It is a major redistribution in the alternative budget of the Left. As I understood from the arrangement for the day – it was not checked with the Left if we were comfortable with it – our Dokumet 8 proposal on the differentiation of child welfare is also included in this debate. The whole of the left's argument on this page is related. We want both a tax base for those with the lowest income, and we want to do something about the SIFO rates for those who receive social assistance. We want to do what the researchers say we should do, namely try to get at SIFO level in terms of social assistance grants. In addition, we differentiate between SFO, kindergarten and childcare rates in relation to income. I just have to say – when the committee is here, and I think someone is actually listening – that I am quite disappointed with the consideration of our Document 8 proposal on child welfare. Based on what I read in the setting, there is only one real argument that is used, and that's what the Council of State uses, that is, that this is a little bit more bureaucracy. I think it's real, it's a little more bureaucratic to make an income-differentiated child's pension. That is the argument put forward by the Council of State in its document. Otherwise I just have to say that I see no arguments against doing so, other than that there's a little bit more bureaucracy. It will then be considered whether to have a little more bureaucracy is balanced against creating a much more targeted system. When the Progress Party, in its comments, points out that they have increased the child's health by a total of $20 in half-years, i.e. one ten per month, I don't think it can be fully measured – the effect in all the modesty that we are talking about here. We've been simulated what this would have meant for families – getting to the kind of differentiation that we're talking about here. If we take an example with a lady I met in Old Town in Oslo, with two children – one in kindergarten and one in school – and 300,00 kroner in income, this would have meant over 22,000 a year. If we had done all of the grips that this is about tax and differentiation, it would have meant something. 22 000 kroner had in all modesty at least meant quite a lot more than a ten a month. If we're going to reach the poorest children, it's important to make such a big move that there will be a difference in the everyday lives of those who labor the most. I want to use the last 20 seconds to say that the representative Groetting made a very good contribution. I think she points to some of the most important challenges we have in child protection; that we have to move more resources to those who actually see the kids in the eyes. We need to have more expertise in the first line service, because that's where the kids actually exist. Then I would like to point out that we have made a number of proposals. We do not give in to the situation of solitude, and believe that we should have had a big message to go through that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1679	We're going through a paradigm shift, or we can call it a cultural revolution, when it comes to seeing children. We have gone from viewing the children as the property of the family, or an attachment to the family, to viewing the children as independent individuals with independent human rights. It makes me optimistic about the future. I see that more and more people report to child protection, and that the debate has turned around, as the representative Grøtting presented in a nice and touching way from the pulpit instead. The debate has changed from being primarily a criticism that child protection intervenes too much until we now stick our finger in the ground and see that it is the opposite that has been essentially a problem, namely that child protection, and not least everyone else around child protection, and that child protection depends on to do a good job, does not care enough. So it makes me optimistic about the future when I see the strong commitment of more and more teams on how child protection is going to develop, and it makes me optimistic when we have a situation where almost all children go to kindergarten. It offers a unique opportunity both to strengthen children and to capture children early. In particular, kindergartens are a redistributive arena which ensures that different children have almost the same possibilities. Almost 85 pst. of all children on child protection measures receive relief, but there is a small minority who need to grow up elsewhere than in their own family, in which we believe is the best place for most children to grow up in. It's either because the families can't give the children what they need, or because someone also hurts their children, which the representative Grøtting was in. Therefore, it is essential that we have good child protection. It is essential that we have enough staff with good competence, with a good ethical understanding of what they do, who can talk to children, and who can cooperate with the others they depend on, to have a good child protection. We have strengthened child protection very much in recent years with ear-marked jobs – the largest effort of 20 years. This has been absolutely necessary because, unfortunately, there has been far too little involvement in child protection over too many years. The relationship between a good childhood, a good adult life and good health is now well documented. The relationship between childhood and later illness and ill health, both physical and mental, is also well documented. We're working on getting more foster homes. We're working on converting institutional child protection because we're concerned with diversity, and because we're concerned that those children who have different needs will also meet different kinds of measures. There we have a challenge, we see that, but I would like to stress that diversity does not depend on private items. Many people depend on us providing many different ways to run institutions. I will underline children's right to be heard. I want to stress the importance of cooperation across departments and disciplines, and I want to stress the importance of removing taboos that allow abuse, care failure and violence to continue in the shelter of silence. The government wants an equal society. An important prerequisite for achieving this is, among other things: that fathers come early into the care of their children. That's what the fathers want, and I'm glad. We see that we are totally dependent on schemes that guarantee fathers this possibility, because the so-called freedom of choice does not always apply in practice. It is that the economy governs, expectations from the employer governs, expectations that relate to different gender roles, governs. If we're not willing to use tools to ensure equality and to ensure children's right to be with their fathers, we know that then we'll put development back in time. We do not want that. We've had a historic extension of the parental leave. I'm proud of that, and we're also going to simplify the parental leave. It is not right, as the representative Håbreek said, that family policy is gone. No, it's filled with a different content than the Christian People's Party and the representative of Hope likes. The taskbar is important to us. It can strengthen freedom of choice, it can strengthen equality, and it can strengthen the family, because families get better finances, and you can become less vulnerable – especially women. The workline may also help to increase the freedom of choice for women, sometimes to leave a family, but it may also be right in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1706	The government's intention to use more foster homes instead of institutions is so far very good, because you think it's almost like a home. But we see all too often that there are unforeseen movements, and many young children have often moved up to five, six times. One also sees cases where children have more diagnosis, that for some families it is not so easy to accept these children, and that the children thus have to move on. When the committee was in Rogaland, the county councilman clearly said that she was concerned about a development with the construction of institutions for foster homes. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council share the concerns of the county council in Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1711	I'd like to underline what we're clear about when we're in dialogue with Bufdir. It's that we want to use foster homes more, but we don't want to leave institutions at the same time. That's how some kids need institutions. For some children, choosing a foster home may mean that they – as the representative Horne says – have to move unnecessarily, either because you cannot handle those children, or because for the children it is not elated to be in foster homes. They want institutions because they have a bad relationship with home, for example. That's why we have to listen to what the children have to say, and ask them what they want, while at the same time ensuring that we have a variety of offers with regard to both institutions and foster homes. We need to recruit more foster homes, and to do that, we need to use the networks that children already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1716	Now there's a lot of Rogaland here, but the child protection manager in Stavanger County was also worried about the quality of some of the foster homes. The reason was that when you recruited foster homes, he often had to say no because the foster home was not good enough for the children who needed it. It is probably the case that Bufetat is today responsible for guiding and helping those who are trained for foster homes, and we have seen that it is a task that Bufetat now does not want and is being laid down. Stavanger Municipality has to take over the guidance that Bufetat has had from foster homes, but it does not follow money. Is there a solution that the Council of State can envisage, that the municipalities with resources and opportunities can have the task of providing guidance and follow-up to foster homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1723	The local authorities have a role to play today towards foster homes, but training through the PRIDE programmes is largely the responsibility of the state child protection system. I want active municipalities with active childcare services, which take responsibility for the proper functioning of foster homes. I'm also busy with good quality foster homes, and we need to recruit from a variety of environments. I am, among other things, I'm concerned that we need to recruit more people with a multicultural background, and that we need to use the networks and families of the children in question where it's right, to a greater extent than what we're doing today. When it comes to unnecessary migration, I want to send the challenge back to the Progress Party, because it is up to the government to cut child protection, to massively put down state institutions, to privatize and instead to go over to the purchase of private places. This will mean unnecessary moves next year to a much greater extent than what we're facing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1731	I don't think I need to elaborate and exemplify so much what I said about red-green family rhetoric, after hearing the statements of the Council of State. The councils are reasonably concerned with catching up, as she says, kids early, but you get to ask: catch up from what? Is there a point in itself to catch up with the kids, or is there a point that they're doing well? How can we strengthen the families in which the children are born, initially? I hear the Council of State talk a little about that. We would like to have a discussion about family protection and the Council's interest in family protection, but the matter is that the Stortinget had planned a separate discussion on family protection – the only time in this period – this week. The reason for this was that in just two weeks’ time, the Council of State has not been able to answer one question from the Committee. My question to the Council of State is quite simple: How high does the Council of State give priority to answering questions from the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1736	Of course, I give that a very high priority, and it is regrettable that that the answer has not come. It's basically just one thing to do, and that's to lay down. On the issue of family protection, I am very concerned about it, and I am concerned about the cooperation between family protection and child protection. I fully agree with the representative, Håbreek, that we need to strengthen our families more. I am sure that if we had done more to support the families, among other things. through health centres and family protection, we could also have avoided some of the situations we face in child protection. But it's essential to cooperate well. What we're doing next year is strengthening family protection by 9 million. kr. Then we will focus in particular on immigrant families and those who live in high-conflict families, where we see that the children are greatly affected. I am concerned about the role of family protection in the future, in particular against child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1743	Then I'll use my next line on what's taken up before here about child protection. You say yes, you're concerned with diversity, you're concerned about offers, but it was said earlier in the debate here from the representative of the Vågslid that you have to choose the action that's best for the children. There is a great deal of concern, as the representative Horne said, among other things. of the county of Rogaland on the closure of institutions. But what you have to add then is that the committee got the exact same message when we visited Troms and met the countyman there. They are responsible for the supervision of child protection in municipalities, and they report back that the reduction of institutions goes too far. Then the Council of State points to a dialogue with Buffetat, but in the state budget it says, in the same section as it says about economic conversion in Buffetat, that it is assumed that that transition continues. So my question is, is this economically motivated, or is it entirely random that you talk about it in the same context as economics when you say that you want your children more in foster homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1748	There are professional reasons why we're doing that conversion. But that's also how we have to make a transition within the institutions. Unfortunately, we have institutions today in public that do not correspond to the needs of some kids, and then it is not right to use them either. That's why we have to convert so that we get a greater degree of variation that suits the kids and the need they have. I said it very clearly instead, and we repeat it in the letter of assignment as well – not only in the dialogue with Bufdir, but in the letter of assignment – that not all children should have foster homes. We need a good institutional offer, too. It's actually cheaper to use foster homes, but it's not cheaper if it means those kids don't get better. Then it is both bad for the young and economically unwise. So there's a correlation between professional considerations and economic considerations in what we do, but that's not why we do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1753	SV is proud of the red-green regime in Trondheim – at least they often give the impression. I wonder if the Council of State is equally proud of what SV is doing in this year's budget. 'Cause they're cutting in babysitting. It's very, very sad. While the line of children waiting for foster families is increasing – there are 40 children in Trondheim waiting for new foster homes, they live in emergency homes today – the Swedish budget is increasing with more than they had planned to provide and recruit new foster families. Does the Council of State think that this is a step in the right direction, that it is a priority which will now be pursued in several municipalities on the SV side, that we cut child protection and balance the budgets with the most vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1760	I must honestly admit that I do not have an overview of the budgetary process in Trondheim, so unfortunately I cannot answer that. I could rather come back to that question. But my experience with SVs who run around the municipalities is that you tend to protect the most vulnerable children. So I don't want to comment on this without knowing both the background and what lies in such a budgetary priority in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1765	It has to go a little beyond the Council of States that Stortinget has submitted to a treatment where our Document 8 is pushed in without us being notified of it, and without me thinking we have it debated correctly. The proposal is to differentiate child welfare. We see that a number of governments, bourgeois and socialist, have not given priority to increasing child welfare, because it's probably felt to a lot of politicians who aren't targeted, because for some people it means they have a big BSU when they're going to get into the housing market, while for others it's very important money to get. So my question to the Council of State: she has one good argument in her answer, I admit, that this is more bureaucracy. But is there really any real other good argument for not discriminating income such a kind of support?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1770	The answer to that is yes. Bureaucracies are just one of several arguments. The distribution committee looked at this, and they concluded that income testing is not an instrument that is suitable for combating child poverty, and they were very involved in child welfare. It is also the case that a differentiation, income upgrading, of child welfare, especially if you add it together with other gradations by income — e.g. if you also take the cash support and babysitting together with this – you will clearly counteract the line of work. This could lead to a certain amount of work being left at work, which in turn affects poverty in this country, and it could help to make what you really wanted to use as a means of combating poverty a long-term trap of poverty. So then the best thing can be the enemy of good, and it's not always tricked.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1775	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1778	A good growth lasts for the rest of your life. For the Workers' Party, it is entirely decisive with a strong stake at the very least. That is why I am very pleased that the government is continuing the child-restraint promise in the year's budget. We have now received 850 new positions in municipal child protection since 2010, as a direct result of the government's efforts. Several child-resistance services have been provided with means of empowerment, and there is a significant increase in resource availability. In this year's budget, the government strengthens municipal child protection by 205 million ear-marked crowns. Since 2011, we have strengthened municipal child protection by nearly 500 million. kr. This shows that we take the most postponed kids seriously. Municipal Child Protection has been underpriority since the mid-1990s, and it is the red-green government through its efforts that has changed this priority. Never before have several children accept child protection help. Of course, it is serious that so many kids need childcare services, but it would be more serious if you didn't see the need there, and that the kids who needed help didn't get the help they needed. Therefore, I also choose to see positive that the number of messages increases, for the threshold for notifying the child protection has fallen. It also means that child protection has grown enormously, and therefore it is decisive that the resource promise we have begun continues. The government party is familiar with the Health Authority's speech. The opposition will almost have it that we're trying to cover these findings. We don't do that in any way. We are aware that we have had and still have challenges in terms of time-limits, action plans and quality of supervision. That points to us in our remarks, but we also say that we see that we have reversed a negative trend. At the same time, we are aware that we need to work towards solving these challenges. There is therefore also an important child protection proposal with a message part, which is unlikely to be important to look at the organisation of child protection, to look at the participation of children, as the Council of State was in it, and legal certainty. We are some members of the Committee that there is a need to increase the capacity of the Child Welfare Service and to smooth out differences between municipalities. It is particularly important to strengthen cooperation between child protection and the kindergarten sector, as there are still too few messages on child protection coming from kindergartens. The Progress Party also proposes that the budget should be reduced. It still seems that you think it's just to leave these tasks directly to the courts. We propose to strengthen the counties by 20 million. kr, precisely because we know that it is important to strengthen the procedural capacity and to ensure that child protection throughout the country provides proper assistance to children and young people at an early stage. I think it's still too long waiting in the denominators, and the government is taking a strong hold on this to improve that situation. I don't believe that a person can just transfer these tasks directly to the courts like this. We already know today that the competence and not least the capacity of the courts in child matters is not good enough either. On the contrary, the proposal from the Progress Party could lead to a longer waiting time for the young. It's against me. For the government, it is important to provide well-differentiated institutional services for the young who need it. The need for institutional facilities has remained stable for more than 20 years. The number of children in institutions has therefore also remained relatively stable. The reason is that for many years, the proportion of children who need space in foster homes has increased more than those who need space in institutions. That's why it's also wrong when the opposition claims that we deliberately build up institutions to use foster homes. A match cannot be set between the two needs. Children in need of accommodation are provided. The major change in the demand for interventions in recent years is linked to the growing need for knowledge-based, home-based interventions, foster homes and aftercare provision. The most important thing for the children who need a foster home is that they get a foster home that is tailored to their needs. The feedback from child protection itself – here it is also a little unfurnished from the opposition’s side – is not that there is no available capacity in the institutional service itself, but that there is a lack of foster homes. The last is of course very serious, and here I have great confidence that the government, as the Council of State also said, will have a recruitment strategy that will give good results. If a child needs a foster home, it is not satisfactory to give an institution space. The most important crop in existence is growth. Contributing to secure, stable and good growth conditions for children and young people is a central policy for the Labour Party and will shape our policy developments for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1801	It is amazing that the representative Wagslid can claim that the opposition parties are wrong. What is certain is that there are many challenges to child protection. It would be better to go in and look at it than categorically to say that the opposition is wrong. In Norway, there are a total of 232 municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants. I'm not going to talk about community reunification, I'm going to talk about child protection. 11 pst. of all children and young people in Norway live in a municipality with less than 5000 inhabitants. In 2011, about 52,000 children were registered with child protection measures. Of these, 52,000 were resident in a municipality with less than 5000 inhabitants. It could be one of the challenges. 70 small municipalities participate in inter-municipal cooperation in the field of child protection. Many who are not currently participating in intercommunal cooperation say that their municipality is likely to participate in cooperation in five–six years’ time. They see the need. I also hope that they will focus on the legal security and care of the children. That's probably why they want to work together. The four main reasons why municipalities participate or plan to participate in inter-municipal cooperation in the field of child protection are: professional competence broader competence recruitment The municipalities are asking for technical assistance in several areas, as we hear. The most frequently mentioned areas are investigative competence, psychological competence and legal competence. In order to provide good child protection in the future, municipalities need these professional skills. Professional development towards own staff and better monitoring and investigation skills is important. Yes, there are challenges. The opposition is not mistaken. This is what Kommune-Norge says, and it's a challenge for the municipalities. We must have ambitions – great ambitions – for a clear and comprehensive leverage for child protection. Child protection work must be based on the needs of vulnerable children. A lack of skills is necessary to achieve the objective of better assistance for vulnerable children and young people. We can contribute to strengthening child protection as our own subject by looking at other occupational groups. Specialised knowledge and competences are important in the new groups that should be assessed. I have previously talked about design therapists and other professional groups who just see vulnerable children and the needs of young people, who, in my view, meet the requirements of the field of competence. This will result in qualified assistance for children and young people and their families. It may not be the case that only child protection educators and socionomists can or must work in the field of child protection when there are, in fact, other professional groups qualified for this job. We have heard the government parties say that there are several job homes – more money has been allocated to child protection positions. But then it is also important that we find the skills that can ensure quality of service. That must be our main goal. And then you don't have to go to the trenches and say that the opposition is wrong when you ask questions and has a common goal of ensuring better child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1839	We're most molded when we're least. It sounds like a natural thing, but it hasn't actually reflected how much attention or how much ambition you've had in relation to the youngest children. But it does now. I am very proud that our red-green project has prioritised kindergartens so high that now all children in one year can know that they are entitled to a kindergarten when they are born before 1 September of the year before. Then it is also right that we set new goals in the discussion about the quality of kindergartens, the content of kindergartens and how we should ensure a good enough nursery provision and a developing nursery provision. What's very interesting when we look at the nursery provision now is that there's a very strong growth among children with a minority background who are now using the nursery service. There are almost as many children among 5-year-olds with a minority background, as is generally the case among 5-year-olds. That means that many of them get much better prepared for school, and that means that many more have a possible arena to learn language better. Since 2005, the reduction in the price of a nursery place has been NOK 13 500. If we convert it to tax relief, there is no one who can beat the red-green government and SV in taxlets to toddlers' families. This comes to the top of what was done after the kindergarten agreement was concluded, so we are more than NOK 20 000 per nursery place. What is now a challenge in the future is to make sure that we have high ambitions for quality in kindergarten. Kindergarten quality is determined by one factor, and it is they who work there, and what kind of competence they have. Half of those who work in kindergartens today do not have education in the area of children, either as educators or by letter. I think that's the biggest challenge we have in the future. Then we are very happy that we have met so well when it comes to recruiting more people to apply for kindergarten teacher training. We now also focus on kindergarten teacher training. We have 18 pst. increase to pre-school teacher training this year. A very popular campaign called “The World’s Finest Job Free” has contributed to this. But I also think the attention to the importance of the first years of life has contributed. We are putting a great deal of effort on competence measures in this budget – 154 million. This is kr right over here. There has been a quadruple since 2005 with regard to the deployment of skills measures. We're strengthening our efforts towards assistants, because we know that there are many people who have a very big need to get more knowledge. We have kept one third of the employees with educational background in kindergartens while we have had the violent expansion. That's very good. That means we've managed to keep the quality level we had when we started the big reform, throughout the development. But we have 4,000 exemptions from pre-school teacher training among department managers and pediatricians. It's a big challenge to be able to get such a good recruitment of pre-school teachers that we can reduce the number of exemptions. Then, of course, it is important to train more people and get to the new kindergarten teacher training well. But it is also important to see that half of those who have been trained as pre-school teachers do not work in kindergartens today. But they can be recruited back to an exciting and challenging job. It is the municipalities that are employers for those who work in kindergartens. What I now find interesting is to see that some municipalities see that they have that responsibility, and go into it with additional recruitment measures. The municipality of Stavanger, which is a press area, does, for example: That's exactly it. Everyone knows that living on a preschool teacher's salary in a press area is demanding. So all the honor of Stavanger for this! In the case of kindergartens, we also need to research more. That is why we have tripled the research effort towards kindergartens from 2007 to 2009, and we continue to do so. Then we have some challenges that I haven't come up with. I am very careful about how the municipalities now treat the kindergartens in their budgets. I'm worried if it's such that the country and beach around now are cut in the kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1858	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1861	Like the Council of State, the Progress Party is concerned about what is happening with kindergartens and the financing of kindergartens. The progress party warned against these being transferred to the municipal framework. It's the same discussion that we're now seeing that they have around when it comes to the local government cuts in their budgets. Little predictability and flexibility in what private kindergartens should have, we also warned about last year's budget. It is good to hear that the Council of State should follow this very closely, and that she is also concerned. My question is about funding: Is the Council willing to realise that there is no shame in turning? Can we turn back to state price financing if it turns out that the municipalities are not following up the kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1868	There are several ways to ensure stronger state governance of the kindergarten sector. For example, this is turning. many of the proposals put forward by the so-called Eye Committee – for example: crew standard, pedagogical density, etc. If there is a broad political desire to control the nursery sector more, you can imagine more possible entrances here. We come with a receipt of these proposals when we present the big message to spring. When we look at macros, we can't prove that there's extensive cut in the kindergarten sector. Subsidies per grandchildhood in private kindergartens have, for example: increased from 75 389 kr to 79 251 kr from 2010 to 2011. But I'm not sure if it tells the whole story, because I get too many examples from the municipalities about worried parents and employees in kindergartens, partly about direct cuts, and especially about that it takes a long time to get hold of temporary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1875	I thank you for your answer. I have seen that the Council of State has been out and talked about the quality, the content and the personnel standards that we need to get in place. The Progress Group also agrees that we need to focus on quality and content when we know how many children are going to kindergarten today. But in the kindergarten agreement, it was clearly said that it should be 100 pst. non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens. This has been said by the government to come in 2014, so we'll see if it becomes a reality, or if there's another government that's going to put it in place. The Progress Party wants to treat these kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. But I think this difference between the municipal and the private kindergartens that we have now is going to continue next year because the private kindergartens don't have enough funding – because it's not equal treatment. There is very little point in talking about quality and content if you don't have a funding scheme that equates public and private kindergartens in place. Can the Council of State guarantee that there will be a non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1886	We've said we're going up to 100 pst. non-discrimination in 2014. In this budget, we are increasing from 92 to 94 p.m., so to fulfill what we have promised the kindergarten sector and the private kindergartens, the rest must come in the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1891	Of our five largest cities, Trondheim, according to the official KOSTRA figures, is now on the bottom in terms of adult densities in kindergartens. Governments have been deeply involved in the demonstration – and in the situation – in Oslo, and she has gone out in all media and has been extremely critical of the City Council. When will the Council of State go out into all the media and be critical of Trondheim's Vice-President, from SV, and the rapporteur from the Workers' Party, when it is that of the five largest cities in Norway, Trondheim is at the bottom of adulthood in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1898	I have fought for the smallest, no matter what municipality I am, and no matter who it may be that doesn't prioritise them high enough. What has worried kindergarten parents and me and employees in the kindergartens in Oslo are two things. One is that the norm itself is terminated. No new ones have arrived, you have just taken the plug in the bathtub out and wait and see what will happen. Then you send it to the neighborhoods with a cut in the frame of the neighborhoods, and then there's not so many other places you can cut than in the kindergartens. It's very worrying. In Trondheim, you have a norm. It's not as tall as the one that was in Oslo, but it's a fixed point. Then there's one more point, which I think has worried a lot, and that's that the City Council for Culture and Education in Oslo has said there's no connection between quality and the number of employees in kindergarten. It is clear that you are concerned when sending one- and two-year-olds in kindergartens where the person responsible in the municipality thinks it is okay with a few adults at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1907	I expect that the council will then contact their red-green friends in Trondheim and make as strong warnings as she does to Oslo. The editor of Education wrote the following about the quality of kindergarten: ‘But the Council of State should really be silent when all the protests come, because the government has done very little to strengthen the staffing of kindergartens. And when the Halvorsen claims that this is a whole new problem, it becomes almost ridiculous. Norway has been among the OECD countries with the weakest pedagogical density for many years.’ What does the Council of State actually do in the next budget to increase the quality of kindergartens, and what has the Council of State done in recent years to get more educators and more adults into kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1917	I'm sorry to have to say that, but I think the leader of Education is ill-informed. No kindergartens in the Nordic region have initially higher adult densities than the Norwegian kindergartens. We are in front of both Sweden, Denmark and Finland in adult density, and we have a standard of education that we are proud of. It's not hard to get the percentage of pedagogues in kindergarten if you get rid of any of the assistants or those with a letter. Then the percent goes up. That's not our goal. Our goal is to have good adult density, together with competence, and in this budget there are 150 million. for measures of competence in kindergartens. In addition, we are now providing a new kindergarten teacher training to be better than today's kindergarten teacher training and to prepare kindergarten teachers for a practice in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1922	The President would point out that the term ‘laughing’ lies outside the scope of parliamentary language. It was a quote – not a word the representative put behind it – but the president would only have expressed it, since it has been mentioned from here in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1926	The Council of State said in its speech that the proportion of pedagogues was the same. After all, ‘quality’ is a broader concept than the proportion of educators. The Council of State was a little more nuanced in the reply rather than the reply, when she showed that there were some examples of variation in funding and support per child, and that it was not just about macro numbers. So to my question. I also get very many of the same strong feedback that in some municipalities the situation is quite serious when it comes to financing the private kindergartens. KS and Private Barnehagers Landsförbund have had a dialogue and agreed on how they think this should be done. They have asked for a meeting with the Council of State, I don't know if that meeting was held. What kind of dialogue does the Council of State have with these organisations, and will she take action to change the legislation, so that the private will receive more stable funding in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1933	I have had many meetings with PBL and KS – there is extensive contact between the department, PBL and KS about just this. We are waiting for a report from the Centre for Economic Research on the practice of the local authorities' legislation on equal treatment. It is very important for us that the municipalities take the responsibility they have to finance the private kindergartens, and that there is predictability as to what kind of framework they have. I'm assuming that the report that's coming pretty soon can give us more knowledge about what this looks like. It is very important that PBL and KS agree on how the legislation is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1942	My second line goes on a slightly different theme. Governments have a significant authority to send signals to Norwegian parents about how to perceive their role and abilities as parents. As I said in my post, I have heard many red-green government councils – including the Minister of Knowledge – on several occasions show that it is a problem if the kids are at home with their parents, for example. at the age of two and up to three years, and that this may lead to an increased risk for both the one and the other. We are not going to repeat the debate on the cash support, we have discussed it before. I have basically just a simple question to the Council of State: Is it a problem for kids in Norway if they are at home with their parents instead of being in kindergarten before they are three years old, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1949	We have not proposed compulsory kindergarten, either for five-year-olds, three-year-olds or two-year-olds. That means that I respect the choices the parents themselves make, based on what they want to offer to their children. What I'm very aware of is that what happened before we got full babysitting was that many of these parents had to use day care services. Sometimes it was a very good offer. Many times it was a very uncertain offer. Ladies my age have many stories about – let's say – shocking experiences with day mothers. The alternative for most of the two-three-year-olds who now go to kindergarten is not that they should be home with their mother or father, it was that they should be home with a day-old mother that there was uncertainty about when it came to quality. The nursery service has been an offer that they have seized with young children, because they have wanted a good quality nursery when they themselves are not at home with their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1956	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1959	This year, too, we have heard from this pulpit representatives from the Right and the Progressive Party that the red-green family policy is holding a damp hand over the freedom of choice of small children's families. They're trying to create an image of their version of freedom of choice and flexibility like it's the small children's family's demand. History and our own experience show that their version of freedom of choice is just a coercion for families, where women have to find their place on the kitchen bench again. See what's happening in Europe, they say, 'Look to Norway!' also in the area of family policy. The EU therefore sees that this important policy area contributes to a positive social development, as it has done in Norway. It is alarming that the representatives of the dark blues are not able to see the same thing. I will leave the dark blues cream wanting to take Mother back to the kitchen bench to focus on a theme that should have been discussed around the kitchen bench, namely the debt problem that we see is still increasing, especially among young adults. Debt collection is a terrible bad start to adult life. For this reason, it is important that we put this issue on the political agenda as often as we can. Figures from May this year show that there are 28 000 people aged between 18 and 26 who have payment notes. That's over 4,300 more than last year. Numbers from Justice show it. The total number of young people is 1.1 billion. NOK in debt collection debt. At the same time, the study shows that half of Norwegian youth do not know what a payment remark is. The lesson they learn first through their meetings with the debt collection companies, and you might say that it can be a steep learning curve. Once the young people have received a letter from the debt collection company, they do not understand what it says either. It was also found in a survey by the Consumer Council. Why do we have this development, despite the fact that young people and debts are on the agenda on many levels? I think Christian Poppe at SIFO points to an explanation when he says: ‘Society is based on loans and credit cards. For young people with little experience and little income, it is then easy to get into trouble. In addition, many move from home and receive more expenses. It also has to do with attitudes in society. The norm is to borrow money if you don't have money here and now." There is a great deal that contributes to the entry of young adults into a difficult debt situation. One keyword can be ‘consumer loans’ and the simple access we have to such loans. While I was doing this post and looking for information online, there was no way how many offers I got for a quick and cheap loan of at least a six-digit amount, and I missed. Huff and huff, I'm just saying. Such offers have gradually become part of our everyday life – unfortunately, I would say. We have to do something about this kind of advertising. What and how do I have no answer to, but I am convinced that our consumer authorities can make good proposals. That wish is once again expressed from this pulpit. We also know that many banks offer credit cards in their customer packages. The Consumer Council believes that this is a little wise from the banks. New of the year is that my own bank offers banking cards to children. How wise it is, remains to be seen, but it must be allowed to say that I am skeptical. When we continue to record negative debt developments, we also need to be able to ask questions about whether the financial institutions do a good enough job in the credit assessment of unsecured debt. Although credit institutions have a deterrent obligation and a credit rating requirement, we see that consumer debt creates the biggest problems for young adults. A medicine that can function in this context is that lenders are obliged to assume greater responsibility when it is obvious that consumer loans should not have been granted. In this context, the establishment of a national debt register would be a good tool for both lenders and borrowers. I have a pious wish that it should be in place for the next six months. Me and many with me are starting to be very impatient with waiting. Finally, I would like to stress once again that it is the individual who has an independent responsibility for debt collection. But it is not surprising that financial institutions and others receive good help through their aggressive marketing of easily available money. It doesn't make life easier for those in a difficult life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e1981	In addition to the fact that the Stortinget will adopt a very good budget for the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion this evening, we will also adopt something else important. It is the anniversary of voting rights in 2013, a very important anniversary, not least as regards women’s rights. The pioneers at the time, Fredrikke Marie Qvam and Gina Krog, were not only concerned with women's political rights, they were also concerned with women's legal and social rights. Therefore, it is possible to subtract a red thread from the engagement of the female pioneers in the period before 1913, and until today. What has happened since 1913 is that a large freedom project has been launched for women. And if you go to the 1970s and the commitment of Norwegian women to both maritime abortion and not least the right to be economically independent, there is also a red thread to the budget debate today. In order to be economically independent, the focus is, among other things, on: to have children's gardening space and to have parental leave schemes. Is there something I'm really proud that the red-green government has managed to get in place during the eight years it's now soon been sitting, it's full child-care coverage and the world's best parental leave scheme. It's really a freedom project for women, because if we compare Norwegian women to other European women, we're freer and we have more rights than anyone else. We don't, like Italian and German ladies, have to choose between being active and having small children. We can pick both of them, and that's precisely because we have as good rights as we have. In addition, we have succeeded in having a high birth rate. Swäl om Norwegian women have the highest professional participation in Europe – yes in the world – we also have Europe's highest birth rate. We were very satisfied on the day we got in place the legal right to kindergarten – in 2009. The opposition voted against that time, with arguments that it was too fast and that it was getting too poor quality. That's why I think it puts them in a bit of a strange light that they are now criticising us for the fact that it's not full babysitting, and that we should also have a continuous recording. You have to kind of make up your mind. For what are their arguments? Is it that you want to have good quality in kindergartens, or is it that you want to have the best possible coverage of kindergartens for the young children's parents? In fact, we think both are important. If the Advance Party and the Right want you to have a continuous recording, as they do, among other things. It is important to build kindergartens even faster than you do today, and to have even more pre-school teachers than you have today. We know that it's patience work, and that both parts will take time, not least to get enough pre-school teachers in place. The last thing we think is very important is that fathers have rights that no other European fathers have. Norwegian fathers take more responsibility for their children than any other fathers do, and this is due not least to the birth rate introduced in 1993. We know that before 1993, almost no fathers took parental leave. We also know that in line with the extension of the spring quota, fathers' withdrawals have been roughly parallel to the spring quota. It tells one important thing – that fathers are dependent on statutory rights to have the opportunity to be at home with their children. When the father quota has now been 12 weeks, fathers have taken out 12 weeks. When it was in five weeks, they took out five weeks. It's not because fathers didn't want more, but because, among other things, mothers and employers have been in the way of this. What's sad and sad about it is that the right-hand side now wants to remove this. If, against all odds, they get a majority in the next fall, fathers' rights will be removed. We know that there are many fathers who will lose a right and who will not have the opportunity to be home with their children if the right side gets a majority for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2000	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2003	We shall now adopt a budget for work and well-being. Only from 2005 have more than 330,000 new jobs arrived in this country, and never before have so many jobs been in progress. 73.3 p.m. by women at work. In Greece the number is 48,1 pst., in Italy 46,1 pst. We're very proud of the high percentage of women we have working here at home, but it doesn't actually come of itself. For many years, the Labour Party has been focusing on and implementing a good family policy, with parental leave, paper issue and full child care coverage, which has meant that we have a society where it is possible to have both a career and a child for both mother and father. Nevertheless, there are still challenges. Many women work involuntary part-time, and there is still a very gender-based labour market in this country. Fortunately, when part-time is involved, the government has now begun to take important steps. They have sent out a proposal for a hearing entitled "Power to Involuntary Part-time", where they propose that a job be entitled to a job percentage that is in line with the amount of an actual job. In addition, the Minister of Labour suggests that the trustees and the trainees should discuss the use of part-time work on a regular basis, and that we may even have a legal right to an increased percentage of jobs matching working time. This is an important step on the road towards involuntary part-time. Then I have to say a little about the sex-shared labour market. I've said it a few times before here, but now we could also read in VG December 7 that new research shows that 20 years of campaigns have not changed our professional choices. Women still dominate in the health and social sectors, education and services. And men are still single-minded in construction, oil, agriculture, industry and mining, and as broadcasters. I am sure that a less gender-based labour market will provide less pay differentials and better working conditions. Not least, everyone will be able to use their talents. Because that's what it's all about – that we make it possible for our young people to use their talents. Theoretically, it's quite possible to choose the education you want, but it doesn't always work that way in practice, because when the gender balance becomes very, very skeptical, an actually feels that the choice isn't real. Targeted actions are important here, and this must be an important theme of the gender mainstreaming message to be presented by the government in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2016	In my previous post I talked a lot about child protection and family protection. I would like to comment on one thing that the representative Thomsen was in a later article, and that is the size of municipalities in relation to the quality of child protection. The KS report on Child Protection in Small Municipalities – Status and Challenges came in October. It points out that child protection is not worse in small towns than in large municipalities. It is probably that it can be better for both small and large municipalities, but there is another question. We can't talk about family policy without mentioning kindergartens. For there has simply been a babysitting revolution in this country. The centre party is very pleased with the enormous child care effort in recent years and with the maximum price, which makes it possible for all young children’s parents at work to avail themselves of that offer. We see that in the future, quality over quantity is to be given priority, and we're going to focus on that in the future. In the centre party we have been busy changing the cash support scheme to make it more accurate. We want to give families with the smallest children a higher amount and phase out the scheme for them over two years. The rules were amended from 1 August this year. We're very pleased with that, and it seems like the young children's parents are, too. Today, we will decide to re-extend the parental leave. Now both parents are going to have 14 weeks each, and there's a common part that's optional. With this, we've increased the total leave period from 43 to 49 weeks since 2005. It's hard to be a baby's parent, everyone knows it's tried, but we've done a lot to make it easy for families with little kids to feel good, and so the kids get it right. One thing that is especially pleasing in this context is that we have removed the rule that mother had to work at least 50 pst. for father to be entitled to a father's allowance. Now there is a parental quota in all cases where both parents have earned the right to parental leave. In addition, a father also has the right to take out parental leave if his mother is absent or is participating in an introduction programme or qualification programme. The red-green government is really doing a lot for small children's families. I can't really see that this country's grandchildren can consider voting on anyone other than our three parties at the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2031	In the course of my adult life, I have been at the forefront of – and SV has been at the forefront of – an equality revolution and a kindergarten revolution. Now we're in the middle of a father-and-child revolution. I'm very happy to be part of this. From my point of view, cardboard is primarily for the young and for the father. Several have been up and said that in child distribution matters it may still be a little skeptical. Yes, Daddy's mission is just for father and child to have as strong and secure a relationship as mother and child, and for father to be an equally natural caregiver for the children as mother is. It is an advantage for all parties. We know that it takes some means of steering at first to change on such cultures. That's absolutely necessary. So I'm glad. We've been involved in a women's revolution. It's about women having jobs, their own income, their own pensions and the ability to manage their own seas. It's a good thing for everyone. That's why I'm so incredibly happy with the boost we now have in Jobjessen to immigrant women who may not have thought they'd be going to work. Maybe they're in a social environment where it's still not accepted that women are at work. Neither was it when I was young and grown up and was going to look for my first job. Then my employer asked if I had received permission from my husband. It's actually no longer since I was young in the early 1970s, that it was like this. But it's going forward, and we have measures for it. What really makes me take the floor is the progress of the party towards the government in the case of poor children. I have read the entire budget of the Progress Party, and in the worst, they are also with the Right. It doesn't help much to raise child welfare by $38 a month for the poorest families when you go all the way to those families that have two and a half times as high a risk as other families to become poor, namely the lonely caregivers. They take from these families over 1 billion. kr, yes, the Progress Party even takes the education aid from these families. Today, this offer provides support to single carers for a maximum of three years so that they can train and qualify for work, so that families can be depended on for sea and get out of poverty. It removes the Progress Party, and it removes the Right. So it's over a billion dollars. kr on an annual basis, targeted from the very poorest families of children. These are the families where there is one supporter, and I think the president agrees with me that we know how difficult and heavy it can be. These families need the offer this government gives them. That's what prevents child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2039	The President shall take care to chair the meeting in this context. We can come back to the debate on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2042	The last speaker was concerned with a very important dimension of family policy, namely the revolution in which fathers have become increasingly involved. While parenting before was a lot of talk about who you are living with -- if the man moved out, often father disappeared from the picture -- there is now much more emphasis on the biological parenting by the responsibility following you. Even though Mom and Dad move apart, we still take responsibility. All honours to Norwegian men and women for doing so, even though sometimes living together can be difficult. The debate has clearly confirmed that family policy is not existing in the red-green world. The Minister for Children has made it quite clear that the working line is a headline for the red-green so-called family policy. The logic is, then, that we need adults to spend less time on their kids and more time on work. I know and talk to many employees in Norwegian kindergartens. There are many of them who actually say that the kids get too little time with their parents, and that's one of the problems that kindergartens have to contend with. There is a repetition in the rhetoric of the red-greens that one is concerned that the various institutions, agencies and instruments in the family policy should capture the young. Yes, child-restraints must be carried out in the event of care failure and so on. But kindergarten's task is not to catch up with kids. Kindergarten's task is to give kids a good upbringing, whether they need to be caught or not. In fact, it is expensive to conduct a family policy where one is not concerned about strengthening the family, but only about catching up with those who later have problems. So to Child Protection: The representative of Awake! gave the impression that the government's policy is that the kids will get the best offer regardless of whether it's private or state. No, it has been in the budget for many years. The policy is that the capacity of state institutions should be used first. That is the red-green policy. The ideal actors who started child protection in Norway are under increasing pressure and clearly report their problems under this regime. The best of the children must come first. We need a government that says that when the kids get a kindergarten today, it's time everyone gets a home. It was just supposed to be missing. Once again, we are in a budget debate and have a foster home queue that hardly changes from year to year. We need a stability reform that prevents those who have come under the care of child protection from moving from home to home to institution, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2055	In a number of policy areas, real policy is about choice of roads, and so does it in this area. Nothing comes of itself. That is said several times in the debate, and that is quite correct. Norway’s society, and in particular equality, is the result of policies — of policy choices — of choices that may not have been as popular when they were taken but have led to good results. I don't think there's any doubt that one of the reasons Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in is equality. It's going to be maternity leave, it's going to be cardboard leave, it's going to be kindergarten, etc. The reason why I really took the floor is that I think the Right is getting a little cheap away, especially in a debate where one claims that it would be equally OK with the Right. It goes on price and kindergarten. There is no doubt whatsoever that the price of kindergarten would be much higher with the Right. Eight years ago, when the Red-Green and Advance Party introduced the maximum price, kindergarten was more expensive than today. How one can then expect that one would not have several more expensive kindergartens with Right Policy – Right at the maximum price – and with price rises in these years, is completely incomprehensible to me. If we're very careful, we might be able to add a 1000-note -- a price increase of maybe 20-25 pst. in eight years it seems reasonable. Before 2004, parents actually paid up to NOK 5000 for a nursery place, and the average price was around NOK 3000. So the claim that a children's playground with the Right, with no maximum price from 2004 and with the price increase until today, would at least cost NOK 4000, I think it's pretty easy to argue for that. I'd like to challenge the Right to prove that a kindergarten with their policies, which are at maximum cost, and what we've done with increases in the last few years plus price increases, would be as reasonable as with the red-green government. At least I don't get it to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2064	I hope that gender equality policy will become a theme in the election campaign next year. It will be natural as we go into an anniversary year, on which the representative Gjul was in. Yesterday, I had several journalists from France in my office, who wondered how equality is going to be in this country, who were wondering about the differences between the red-green – we who are now running – and the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, and what will be different. Then I began to think through what it is that will be different. Well, that's actually quite a lot. It is, of course, about parental leave, the possibility for fathers to be at home with their children and the possibility for children to become acquainted with their fathers, which also affects the position of women in the workplace. The Right Party and the Advance Party will remove what works to change cultures. It is about returning cash support as an instrument of Norwegian policy, which is a targeted tool to keep women – and in particular immigrant women – away from work and children away from kindergartens. It's completely incomprehensible to me, especially that a party like the Right, that talks about the working line and is concerned about integration, is in favour of something like that. I would rather recommend them to look at Drammen, where they have said that it is professionally irresponsible to use the cash support. But the Right wants to force the municipalities to use the cash support and increase it up to three years. It is about removing the maximum price in kindergartens and also weakening the quality, by living more children into the kindergartens we have today, without making sure that we get more foreign educators. It's about the transitional aid – which Andersen's representative was in – that you want to cut with 1 billion. kr, although it seems to get women back into work. In particular, this with educational support is completely incomprehensible to me. The pill is to be sucked through what the Advance Party wants – to give 38 kroner a month in increased child-care. It's a skinny consolation. The need to increase privatisation, which directly affects the pensions of women who are currently working in the welfare state and who do not exactly serve fat – necessarily – from before, and to go against strengthening rights to prevent discrimination against women in the labour market. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the equality law and the apparatus to deal with equality law, namely the LDO, which the Progress Party wants to remove. These are integration measures that work and can get immigrant women to work, such as Jobjesen – which the Advance Party wants to remove – and free core time in kindergarten, which affects both equality, integration, children’s opportunities and child poverty. There also wants the Progress Party to go with the axe. It's very uncertain, but at least what's certain is that it's going to be a completely different development in this country. Much will happen quickly, but a good deal will take place gradually and will restore equality in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2081	I need to assure the representative of the Christian People's Party that equality is not dangerous to the families. On the contrary, it's a very good thing that we have like-minded parents, that we now have arrangements that make Dad a natural caregiver, that we have good kindergartens that support the family, and that it's natural that both parents have economic income and security associated with it. This is a very good package for most families – for the very most, most families this is very good. Some families need a lot more than that, and especially the children. I am extremely pleased with the strengthening of the child protection we have in this budget. We know through research that child protection goes like a black, evil thread through generations of difficult lives. If we don't manage to break the bad circles, either by helping the family together to deal with their problems and the underlying causes of this, or by securing the child another family or a place in an institution, they can't get a life of shape that is possible without going along with all these problems. It's absolutely necessary. In the last annual report on social services in Nav, from 2011, this is one of the main points they say is the most important thing we can do to combat child poverty, because it is so massively present in these families. The second important thing found in the report is that lonely families have two and a half times as high a risk as other families to remain poor. That's why we have to secure these families an income while they qualify. Then they get to work and out of poverty. The third important finding in this report is that there is an increase in child poverty in immigrant families. In immigrant families, mother is much less employed than in Norwegian families. Therefore, we have fully targeted measures to ensure that we get to grips with these women and can motivate and assist them so that they can qualify for work and start to think that it was actually the way Norwegian women achieved both navigability and, not least, out of poverty. The measures taken by the government in this budget are very important to reduce poverty. There are a lot of measures we could point to that which are needed in addition – they hope we have the opportunity to come back to the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2092	I want to thank the Family and Culture Committee for a very good debate. There has been a constructive debate, which has brought about differences both in cultural policy and not least in family policy, because there is a great difference between the opposition and the position. It is good to finish the work of the Committee in this way, with a worthy and good debate. The debate was valid until the representative de Ruiter from the Labour Party went to the pulpit. The debate today has not been marked by allegations that are not rooted in reality, but it was when the representative de Ruiter went to the pulpit and made claims about the Right Policy and the Right Kindergarten Prize that do not vote. I don't know if it's because the representative doesn't work with the kindergarten policy for the day. I might be able to assume that this is because you don't know exactly what the Right has proposed. But I think it's a shame to lower the debate to such a low level that you make lying claims about the Right Kindergarten Policy and Untruths that don't really have a root in reality. If the representative de Ruiter continues to make false claims about the Right Kindergarten Policy, I recommend that he go to the head of the Financial Committee, who has sent an unreserved complaint on behalf of the Workers' Party to the Right, where the Workers' Party regrets that they have on several occasions come up with mistruths about what a nursery place would have cost with the Right Policy. Before the representative de Ruiter goes on to talk about what a nursery place will cost with the Right, I strongly recommend to him to go and talk to the family fraction of the Workers' Party and to the representative Torgeir Micaelsen, who sent a complaint to the Right Magnifying Group, who admits that you have made a calculation of completely wrong premises, and that it has no root in reality. I hope that in the future we will not hear claims from the Workers' Party that have hatched in the party office, which prove not to have any root in reality, but that you actually relate to what the Right has proposed, and what a kindergarten site would have cost with Right Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2101	The President must note that «untruth» is not a word used from the pulpit of the Storting. There are other expressions. The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2106	There is a brief comment that follows on from the contributions of the representative, Karin Andersen. Equality is good for families. That's where we agree. To a large extent, we agree on the political content, too, I think, in much of what Karin Andersen said. But the question is, is that the whole thing when we talk about family policy – children's growing-up conditions? That is what I have called for in the debate today. Is there anything more in that family policy than that we have some tools to do some good things for adults, including equal opportunities in the workplace, the workplace, the welfare state and the state's income? This is my request, and I have not received a good response from the red-green ones. That is why I stand by my claim that the red-green family policy is non-existent.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2113	It was a violent ointment from the representative of Hofstad Helleland. But it is often that when you have little to go with, one goes under attack – and it gets a notice. What I said in my previous post, which I would like to repeat, was that when the maximum price was introduced in 2004, the average price in a nursery area was approx. NOK 3000. But kindergarten prices varied enormously, and in fact there were parents who paid up to NOK 5000 for a nursery place. The right was against the introduction of a maximum price. I didn't come up with any specific calculation, because I recognize that it's difficult, and that we can't do a concrete calculation that keeps water scientifically, but I have suggested and asked Right: what would the price be in 2012 and 2013 if you had been determined, and we hadn't introduced the maximum price in 2004? What, then, would the price be? It was probably not lower than it was in 2004. The probability that it would have been a lot higher, can we agree on? I suggested maybe 20-30 pst. More expensive than 8 years ago, i.e. a normal price development also for kindergartens, which would mean that the average might have been NOK 4000. But I've been very clear that I'm suggesting, and then it gets to be part of the political debate. But what's a fact is that the Right was, and is, at the maximum price, which would lead to increased prices. If that's the case that the right is not at the maximum price, they would have to come up here and say it. If that's the case that the right this year has not proposed adding to the nursery rate of 200 kroner a month, they would like to come and tell you. I feel that the right here has a problem with the documentation, and so chooses one instead of attacking me and others who rightly suggest that the kindergarten price with the Right would probably have been much higher, if we had not taken it together with the Advance Party in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2124	First to the round of kindergarten prizes: if we start from our policies, we know that since the red-green government gained power in 2005, the maximum price in kindergarten has been reduced by over 13 500 kroner per kindergarten per year. When we are in port with our objectives, a family with two children will save 23 000 kroner a year with this measure. The right has never been on that race. One might want to have long discussions about what a nursery place would cost with the Right. It's hard to say, but that it would have been more expensive, there's no doubt about it. When we know what this has meant in crowns and ears for the families of children today – a historically good tax haven – I think it is important for the Right to clarify what policies they have in this area. It gets more expensive, and as we see in Oslo, it gets worse too. There has been a good debate, because it has given up some ideological dividing lines. With regard to the Right, we see that where the party has alternatives to government policy, it will largely be about exacerbating the situation: the kindergarten price increases one in this budget by NOK 200 a month, removing father's time, so that children lose the opportunity to stay at home with father, and getting privatization, where to cut public child protection and spend money on buying private services. Yes, that's right, we want child protection to be primarily a public task, but we see that we need both ideal and private actors to fill in. But it is not unreasonable that when we have a public offer, we make sure to fill it up and use that capacity first, so we turn to ideals and then to private ones. We stand for that because we believe this is primarily a public task. Hopeful managed to say in the debate that family policy is completely absent in red-green policy. Then he cannot have been present in this debate or in previous debates on family policy. I spent my entire contribution unfolding how the entire community building is about defending the family and providing secure frameworks around the family. It may have been forgotten that the strongest attack on the family in recent years came from the Bondevik government, with its attack on the Working Environment Act, which ensures more temporary jobs and – as we are at risk of getting to the next harvest – more required working time and overtime. It will really create uncertainty and an unstable situation for families with children, while we will ensure their safety and stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2135	The Progress Party believes it is important to have a good and forward-looking family policy, a family policy that places the responsibility on parents for the first time, but also has facilities to assist those who do not do the tasks without the help of the public. The transitional benefit was introduced at the beginning of the 1970s — when small children’s mothers were usually not out of work and when there was no childcare coverage. It was a scheme that gradually turned out not to be so good as the social welfare period could last ten years. When the social welfare period was reduced to three years, major changes were seen in the early release of several of the mothers, and in the improvement of their economic performance. Now it's time to change this. Already two years ago, the Progress Party proposed to reduce the passive social hours to one year. It's not just about children from birth up to the age of three, it's a straight mother, or maybe the fathers, have up to the age of eight. In the case of poverty, the reason these families are poor is that they live by social security, that they live by a passive social security scheme. As far as education is concerned, the Progress Party cannot see that there is any reason – with the opportunities we have for education and loans and scholarships – to have very special arrangements only because parents live separately. Although parents live separately, both parents have a responsibility to follow up the children. You cannot say that you have lonely parents who are all alone about the child. We have to put the responsibility back where it belongs – with both parents. And in most cases both parents take responsibility. It is as important for single dependants to get out of work quickly as it is for those who are ill or for those who are out of work for other reasons. The progress party wants to put a little emphasis on it. We have made exceptions in our budget, where we say that those who are under 18 when they become parents, those who have children with special diseases, who need to stay at home longer, or those who are studying, can keep the benefit longer. What we're looking for is really the same thing. There is a huge debate about something I think we almost agree on in this room: that it is important for those who live alone with young children to get out of work – like everyone else. So I'll say a little bit about kindergartens. It seems that someone thinks it is vital that children come to kindergarten as soon as possible. In Iceland, they are not allowed to have children in kindergarten until they are two years old. There is a reason why politicians in Iceland have come to that conclusion, and I think you should look at it a little bit closer. What we're doing can be a pretty expensive experiment, so I don't think we should be so sure that getting the kids out early is the only thing right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2153	A little comment on Arild Stokkan-Grande's contributions, not least related to the question of what an active family policy really is: What we've missed from the government is a position where you view the family as something more than a kind of production unit in Norwegian society, which we often feel the government is doing. The family has a value in itself; it is not primarily to be adapted to work, production or employment. It's interesting that in the red-green world it works so that it's very important that the children are at home with their parents about until they're one year old. After that, it's very important that they go to kindergarten. It is right for many parents to choose this, but it is also quite right for many parents to choose to spend more time with their children without getting a sort of inferiority stamp from the red-green side, which is very often the case when we debate these questions. So to the question of who priorities kindergartens or not: I remember very well when the Workers' Party had to complain about the right calculations they presented to the public, which they had to know were wrong. It was really nothing better when the Christian People's Party presented its alternative budget. Then came a new press release from the Workers' Party. It said that we took money from kindergartens to give to a children's allowance in the tax. It was totally wrong, and it knew the Workers' Party very well. We added an increase in the cash support so that the freedom of choice would become real. They know – I hope they know that, otherwise they have lost a significant point in how the policy works – that when you increase the cash support, there is fewer who use kindergarten. In reality, we spent more on kindergarten, and we have also – in contrast to this government – been committed to giving Kindergarten a quality promise. So there's a big difference between the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party's family policy, and I'm not a second in doubt about which policy is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2167	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2170	The transitional benefit is a passive benefit for one year. It wants to keep the Progress Party. So the Progress Party cuts the two years when the benefit is not passive, but where there is an activity requirement – that you either have to be a jobseeker or in education or qualification. It's this that makes these families actually manage to support themselves in the longer term. So you remove an active measure, and it's an estimated 17 200 children in these families who are made poor with a pen stroke, because parents who have the right to transitional benefits are not just going to be lonely, but they're going to have no income or very low income. So there's going to be a huge debate – over which Vigdi's Giltun rises – when you take over a billion from these poorest children's families, where they're going to live while they qualify to get work, it doesn't surprise me the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2177	The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2180	It is presented from the Syversen and Christian People's Party as if we 'press' children into kindergarten, that is what our ambition is. No, the fact that we need kindergarten has been a desire of young children's parents for many, many years, because we want to work, we want to do ourselves, we want to stand on our own feet as a family, and we want our children to go to kindergarten. That's why we give this so high priority, because this is one of the welfare goods in Norwegian society that are most sought after by young children's parents. So I agree that the family has a value in itself, as this is said by the Christian People's Party, and that's exactly why the family needs protection. You need kindergarten, a good school, a good parental leave scheme and that kind of thing, but you also need social protection in relation to the violent pressure that many people face in working life, and then you have to explain to the right – and to the Christian People's Party, who have thoughts of moving in that direction – how it will improve the family situation that there will be further pressure on the family in view of when to work, imposed overtime, more temporary jobs. They don't answer that. It would be a serious attack on the freedom of the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2187	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has spoken twice before, and is given the word – no, sorry: The representative of Giltun is given the word for up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2190	It is good to have some time when others have spent a lot of speaking time. I'd like to say a little bit more about the transition benefit. I've had transitional benefits myself, so I know it can be very useful, but I also know that it can be very pacifying. I also know that very many people do not come out to work after having had transitional benefit for too long. Now we also have a lot of other social welfare schemes in this country, and I expect everyone who sits here to know that everyone gets taken care of if you don't have anything to live with. We have social welfare benefits for those who are unable to get into work and who are not entitled to anything else, but we also have qualifying benefits. If single carers are in that group that they need to have a very special qualification, there is nothing wrong with their transition to a qualification aid and training measure. They do not necessarily have to have a different measure than all others in the same situation — for many without children too are in the situation that they need to qualify for work. But not all work needs to be so highly qualified to take; in fact, there are many jobs in our society where we import new labour, how many of those who are unemployed — including those who are loners — can go straight to work, or go to work after a short training period. And that qualifying period they're allowed to have while they have transitional benefits. The Progress Party does not believe that solitary dependants should have nothing to live on; we believe that we have other arrangements that catch them up. The reason why we have deducted that amount from our budget is the proceeds we have received when we have sent in questions about proceeds. As I said before, the child has two parents – children originally have two parents – and I think it is completely wrong to pooren and stigmatize lone mothers in the way that SV does. You are not a resourceless person because you as a parent live at each of your addresses. Rather, many of these parents are very resourceful and are able to find good solutions. It shall not be such that the official nearest to the public shall stamp a single dependant – «stacky, entitled to extra benefit, entitled to additional training». Most people are doing this very well within the arrangements we have, and the others will get help in the same way as those who don't have children, who need extra follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2201	Now I realize that Arild Stokkan-Grande doesn't have more speaking time, so now I can really hit it – but I won't. I thought it was a little interesting what he said in his post, that the red-green policy was to make sure that the family could stand on their own legs, and that therefore they have run the policy they have run. But that's the very thing; the red-greens really want the family to just stand on one leg, that the choice should be just one leg – that is, you have to have enough kindergartens, and that all children should preferably go to kindergarten. We think it's okay with two legs in family policy too – that it's a real freedom of choice. Then you also have to make sure that it is actually real and provide a cash support that gives families the opportunity to stand on their own feet, even though they may not choose exactly what the red-greens prescribe. I think maybe it was also a bit significant that Stokkan-Grande talked about the red-greens having to protect the family. That's also the ideological starting point, that the family is basically not able to make their own choices that are good for them. They need guidance, they need a recipe, and here the red-greens are willing to make their knowledge available to all Norwegian families. I don't think we're quite there. In fact, we believe that Norwegian families can and will choose for themselves, and that that is essentially a good choice for them and their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2212	Families can and will choose sails, but it is not that you make choices in a vacuum. The introduction of so-called gender-neutral arrangements in a gender-specific area such as the family also results in a gender-specific outcome at the other end. We all choose under the conditions we're faced with, and it adds to what kind of freedom of choice we have. But what I want to comment on is Giltun's statements related to the transitional benefit. I believe that this is an important debate. There is an important poverty debate, and there is an important women's and gender debate. Over 90 pst. of those who accept transitional benefits are women. Lonely dependants have two and a half times more chance of becoming poor than others have. What they need is, among other things, what they need. a social benefit that addresses the possibility of getting into work or education, and that is precisely the transitional benefit. If the Progress Party has not brought it, they will have to look up the legislation. That means that either the Progress Party doesn't understand the rules around it, or you choose to cut 1 billion. kr, which is really only toy money, and transfers it to other good purposes because it is assumed that there should be labour-oriented social benefits – but that is it. The large majority will move to work after the end of the social security period. We know that. But there are those who are unable to benefit from the transitional benefit as well, and in particular those who have poor Norwegian skills, and those who have low qualifications already. What do they need? Well, they need close follow-up. They need, among other things: what we propose in the budget for next year, which is called Jobjeansen. It's called New Chance now, but it's going to be called Job and become permanent from next year. There are outreach activities, in particular those women who have been at home for a long time on passive cash support. What does the Progress Party do? Well, they cut off their job skills and believe that this is unnecessary use of money – that is, a targeted cut to prevent immigrant women from getting into work. What do they do instead? Well, they reinforce the cash support – which is therefore passive by definition – as a targeted action that will lead to the remaining at home for the sake of the family economy and not least for the sake of young people who had really had to get into work. It's completely incomprehensible to me. I don't understand, and I'm not sure if the Progress Party understands it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2223	Just a brief remark to the representative Hans Olav Syversen. When I hear the Christian People's Party talking, I often get the impression that Norway has a semi-authoritarian approach to what a family is. Then I ask myself if the Christian People's Party really means it. In my world, families have never had greater freedom than they have today. Does the Christian People's Party really disagree? With full childcare coverage, with the possibility for both parents in a family to work and still have children, I cannot believe that Norwegian families are not free. To the extent that some Norwegian families have been illegitimate in recent years, it is because the state has not allowed them to call themselves or to be a family. If someone has a recipe for what a core family is in this country, it is more than any other Christian People's Party, who, if they had implemented their policies, would not have allowed all families in Norway to be a family.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2231	The representative Vigdis Giltun has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2234	If there's something very incomprehensible, it's exactly SV's eagerness to tell you that now you're going to have one year of transition aid and further education. That's exactly what the Progress Party said two years ago, and then we were almost deflected from this pulpit. In the draft budget of the Progress Party, there is a right to seek extended benefits if you are under education or if your children are ill. The budget number has been declared when we have sent in questions about what is being proceeds from the proposal we have made. So that's the other thing that's going to go well, if it's a disagreement. Now there are actually arrangements for anyone who needs qualification to get to work, both those who live alone with children, and others. Everyone needs to get to work. You don't necessarily have to have a very special arrangement for those who have chosen to live separately. In many of these cases, parents also continue to live together or have very close contact, so we believe the existing arrangements that we have for everyone else, can also apply to those who live alone with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2241	No more people have asked for the word to speak. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2255	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 25 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 45 minutes, the Progress Party 30 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes and the Government 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to repeat chord changes of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers from each group and up to six lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2264	Norwegian children read much better than before. That's a happy news. The media have focused a lot on the political implications. Who's to have the honor? And we hit our neighboring country? I'm most concerned about what it actually means to thousands of children all over Norway, because it's them and their future this is about. That just 5 pst. of the fourth tiers are now below the lowest mastering level in reading, against 12 pst. in 2001, means a great difference for many children, and there is a happy development. It means a difference for the individual in the mastering experience itself. It means a difference for the individual to discover on his own the literary tax chamber Norwegian children's book literature. It means a difference for the individual to be able to deepen himself in fact books about strange natural phenomena and exciting animals or read about the football player Zlatan or President Obama – and that on his own. The world is opening up to anyone who can read. Not being able to decode the characters can mean an outsidership, to a greater or lesser extent, for the rest of your life. I'm just starting this budget debate to remind the Greatness of how important school policy really is, and that the promise we've been documented means a lot to all the thousands of children who will get a more exciting, enjoyable and easier schooling – just because they read better. Good reading skills tap into the learning skills of all other subjects, including mathematics. It reduces the chance of falling from school later, and it gives confidence and confidence. We all know that is crucial to how to deal as a person with the challenges that await later in life. That's why this is such a good news for thousands of children and young people. For us politicians, the good results are also important, because they confirm that we work well and correctly in Norwegian school – that we are on the right track. Forming education policy is a complex task in our modern societies. It requires effort over time, and it requires a systematic approach. It takes enough patience to make the measures work. Developing, maintaining and modernising a education system is a formidable task, simply. In this budget, we're going up the road. We continue with what works: early effort and focus on basic skills. We are focused on our efforts and spend money on more teachers. We give the community sector financial space for action, so it's able to do a good job as a school owner. We're increasing the investment framework of the interest-rate compensation scheme by 1 billion. kr. By doing so, we will continue to give better working conditions to children and young people who go to school in unsatisfactory buildings. We continue to invest in the New GIV, the electoral profession in high school and the continuing training of teachers. And we connect the cultural school more closely with the primary school in a cultural school lift. We continue with a rough course on the work we started in 2005. One of the main themes of the financial debate from the opposition was the allegation of a lack of political implementation – a claim that I marveled at in general, but especially when the most prominent representatives of the Right used education policy, of all areas, to show that the red-green government does not. I've already taken the school results for myself. In fact, no one in this room in November knew what TIMSS and PIRLS would tell us. However, the 2009 PISA survey also showed the same trend: it is improving significantly. We don't solve the challenges in school in one day, of course not, but every day we should make sure we're on the right track. Then, for the sake of order, I would like to stress that it is far from just this government that is to have the credit for this, primarily because of the good work of thousands of teachers and school leaders throughout Norway. Many municipalities work well with schools, but claiming that the efficiency of education is poor is wrong. So for higher education: we have established 23 400 new places of study since we became a government. We've given the students $1,000 more to live on this month. Under the previous government, student loans were not price and pay adjusted, and more importantly, we have built over 6,000 student homes. We're going to keep doing this and now we're going to be at 1,000 new units of furniture next year. It's claimed by the Right's representatives that it's not being invested in research, because we've prioritised everything else, it's called. The truth is, the research budgets have increased by 50 pst. Nominal and 32 pst. real. It's more than two and a half times as much as the increased room for action in the entire budget, and that means that we're among the countries of the world who spend the most money on research per capita. Is that enough? Of course not, it will never be enough. It's in the nature of the matter, because we humans are driven by curiosity and hairy ambitions and will develop the world further. We're going to bring the world forward, and we're going to do it by developing science. Research is the very foundation of this development, because there will always be diseases to eradicate, and there will be pollution problems we will solve. How do we solve poverty problems, basically? How will more people get a worthy old age? The answer is often in research, although sometimes it can be brutal. Taking into account the research on climate, the following Bible quotations are very valid: ‘The person who increases his knowledge increases his pain.’ My hope is that the answer to the climate challenges lies in research — not only the knowledge of the consequences of man-made climate change but also the answers. That is why we are also increasing the funding for climate research by 47 million. kr. In addition, we do not achieve the target of 3 pst this year either. of gross domestic product, but the main responsibility for this lies with industry. That's their share of 2 pst. We're not when. There is too little research in Norwegian business, and we are not good enough to create synergies between research, development, innovation, business development and new entrepreneurial activities. If we're going to do that, it's probably so much about other measures than increased appropriations. In this way, the announced research report coming next year becomes very important. Real science in Norway has been going on over time, and we are fortunately seeing a clear increase in students who choose to study real science or will become engineers. Real science is more popular in school, and more girls are applying for this education – that’s very good. TIMES shows us that we're on the right track, but we still have a bigger job to do with mathematics than we do with reading skills. We have to take this seriously in the light of the social needs we have, but also of making exciting subjects such as science and math available to more people. Many measures work together. One of the budget initiatives we have is 10 million. kr more to the White Centres and Newton Room. At these centres around Norway, the curiosity of children and young people is aroused in a way that we now adults could only dream of. To see the busloads of schoolchildren rushing into INSPIRIA in Sarpsborg every morning when they come, is a true joy for those who have seen it. When we know that the same premises are used by high school students who go on a research line, I'm sure this is well spent money. The same applies to the change we're making for the freshman students in Asia and Latin America. Now the Loan Fund will provide loans and grants to people studying in countries like South Korea, Argentina, Japan and others, as well as the BRICS countries, to which we opened last year. We should consider doing the same with students who choose to travel to the United States in next year's budget. Science knows no limits. Human networks are crucial for success in our global world. This is therefore a good way to make sure that Norwegian students learn subjects and cultures in countries with which we want even more contact and thus form networks. As far as church policy is concerned, I am pleased that we have come to a good harbour with the church settlement, or, to put it another way, almost entirely in the harbour of the church settlement. Just now, the Church has appointed a new bishop, Stein Reinertsen in Agder. That's the first step on the road after the church settlement that shows that the Church is now independent and rules in its own house. The Church has great challenges, there are fewer who define themselves as Christians now than too few years ago, and it is important that the Church takes that challenge seriously, so that it becomes relevant. Modern people also need to have a guide in life, and if the Church is to have the role it has had before, it has to make itself relevant to today's people and not just to yesterday's people. I am also pleased that we continue to step up the faith training reform, and that we have to fill it up completely in later budgets. On 10 December each year, Stortinget moves to Oslo City Hall for a few hours to attend the Nobel Peace Prize. Then we get plenty of opportunity to study the beautiful frescoes on the walls inside the town hall. Many dramatic stories and important values are painted on the walls there. One of the tables I always rest on is what shows the brilliant, beautiful people who, with knowledge and science, fight one of the most ugly creatures on the whole wall. His name is ignorance. Today's budget helps to combat ignorance by focusing on science, knowledge, education and research, and that by over 55 billion. Norwegian Krone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2310	I register and share the ambitions of the representative of Aasen and want better results in school, and then it is important to put in action that we know works. This was also the representative inside his post – the representative boasted that the government had introduced more teachers to the school. The problem is that the distribution has been based on school achievements from just one year. During the budget consultation, there was an example of a municipality’s being assigned to teachers at the best school in the municipality. It was the one year result was bad, they were assigned these. Other schools in the municipality have had worse results for a number of years. This shows that the allocation is too random. My question to the representative is therefore: how can she defend such a priority when both the school owner and the management express that this is too little targeted and completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2319	I am pleased that the representative of the Progress Party, Bente Thorsen, is addressing this with a teacher's density. It is important that we have enough teachers in school, so we have also put forward the proposal that is being voted on today, that we want to increase the number of teachers in school. There is nothing wrong with all Norwegian municipalities taking responsibility for even more teachers. We have given a very good municipal budget, and if the municipality to which the representative Bente Thorsen refers wants to have more teachers in other schools in the municipality, we are quite open to it. What this scheme is for is to target the teachers against those municipalities that have the worst score nationally, and then target those schools that are thought to be the most in need. So it'll always be that at macro levels you don't always get it right, but I think we're going to live with it when the whole system is overall good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2324	I'm glad that Marianne Aasen in her article talked a lot about research, and I noticed something she said – she said about the following: There is too little research in business. That analysis fully agrees with the Right. The question is what the government is doing about it. I wonder if Marianne Aasen can point to a single new measure in the 2013 budget that will help solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2329	When it comes to increasing research in business, there is no simple recipe for it. It is not possible to grant public funds and hope that business will follow suit. It's business that has to grant that money themselves, if they want to research in their businesses. Incentives to it in some way, I think, are a very important question, and it has also been addressed. I asked that question to the business community itself in the hearing that we had in connection with the budget, without getting such a very clear answer, because it is quite difficult. The committee was travelling this fall to the United States, to California, where we met companies and researchers who work a lot closer, in a completely different way. What was striking was that we were not presented with any grant schemes or any way of doing it where they were focused on getting business to research. They created arenas. That's what we have to do, and we have to get back to that in the research report. Then I think business will research more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2336	The representative of Aasen was in his post on the beautiful seance that was down in Oslo City Hall. We also heard Norwegian musicians of high quality. Being a high-quality musician often requires that you have received good instruction in it. That is why it came as lightning from the clear sky when the government in the current budget decided to remove the additional grant that Kongshaug high school has had and which it has been agreed on in cross-political terms since 2001. They've had it extra because they've had a clean music line, which is more expensive to have than a line of music, dance and drama. But in order to treat it in the same way as Oslo City Stone School, you chose to remove it. Now it has been decided to increase this out of the school year, but does the representative of Aasen believe that this type of school should not be able to operate on pure music education?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2341	I'm satisfied that we've managed to allocate money for the next six months, so that it doesn't have consequences for the current school year. In all these years that the Storting has granted money, there has been only one school. There have been no schools; there has been one school we have granted. Now the situation has arisen that there are two schools that we then have to relate to. The situation is new, and I take the right to be able to evaluate it at a later stage. But what's really important here is they're over 70 million. We grant cultural schools, and I am amazed that the opposition does not support them. This is where all Norwegian children will gradually get a good offer wherever they live – not just some very, very few who go to a private cultural school aimed at young people who are already very, very good. Now we get a good cultural school offer that will apply to everyone, and what I like.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2352	The representative of Aasen was concerned about the importance of international experience and exchange, and that it is now open to more students being given the opportunity to take some of the training abroad. Furthermore, the representative of Aasen stated in his statement that one should consider, and look at, to open up the possibility that the United States was also implemented in this scheme as of next year. My question is – all the time that figures actually show that it will be economically beneficial to open this up – why this has not been done this year, but only to be assessed next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2362	I am very pleased that several countries have now come up where you can take the freshman year. Initially, when that change was made – long before this committee was put on the Stortinget, but by a much earlier boom – not all the consequences of our getting fewer students who got this first year were overlooked. There were arguments for it, and there are arguments against it. I hope we'll be able to enter the freshman year next year, as it says in the setting, and that we can prioritise it. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2367	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2370	Knowledge is more important than ever. In the last few days, we have heard many committees discussing their budget proposals in this Chamber. Many of them have been about the welfare state now and in the future. Successful participation in the knowledge economy of the future is a prerequisite for maintaining well-being. That is why it is very gratifying today to be able to congratulate teachers and students on the efforts made in Norwegian classrooms, as the results of the TIMSS have shown us this week. It shows that the promise of knowledge, on which there has been a broad political outreach, is working, and it shows that it has been right to give priority to mathematics in the continuing training programme for teachers. But now it's important to look forward. We're better, and much of what we do works, but that's not good enough. We're below the level of Kazakhstan. It's not a country we normally like to compare with, nor is it in this context a country that I think we should be comfortable comparing ourselves with. So I've heard some people from the left say that many of the countries that hit us are in Asia, and it's not that dangerous. In a country with an extremely internationally oriented economy — one of the most internationally oriented economies in the world — I would warn against that approach. Let's take the yard industry along the Norwegian coast, which builds and equips boats, as an example. They don't because they do it the cheapest, but because they do it the best, because we have the best professionals, the best engineers and the best architects in Norway. If this and many other industries are to survive in the future, we need to have labour that can also compete with Southeast Asia. What worries me the most is that there are so few that get to the most advanced problems. The Council of State has said we're taking it from below. It was absolutely necessary, and it looks like it's about to take effect. But now we also have to lift the best students. There is no doubt that better professional competence of teachers is the key to achieving this. If you want to see, challenge and provide learning support for the best students, you need to be more active in continuing training for teachers — especially real-time teachers. There is something the Progress Party puts into its budget – a sharp increase in the continuing training of teachers. Then we have to get one more thing, which we can't do with money in Stortinget: we have to create a culture to stimulate the nicest students, which I think we might have too little in Norway today. Then we have another big challenge, and it's the dropout in high school. The drop-outs quickly end up in a situation of weak or unconnected to the labour market for many of the years ahead. We can't afford this to continue. It is primarily the boys who end up, and it is primarily they who end up in the professional field. So, as I said earlier in this Chamber, we're charging alcohol and tobacco because we want less alcohol and tobacco in the Norwegian community. Then I wonder, when we charge apprentice places, is it because we want fewer apprentices? Then I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party to remove the employer’s fee on apprenticeship places. This would ensure that Norwegian businesses could have provided far more apprenticeships, and we could have reduced the drop-out rate, because we know that there is a very strong link between the drop-out rate and the lack of apprenticeship places. When the red-green government came to power, 5 000 technologists were missing in Norway. Today, 16 000 technologists are missing. If this trend continues, we will lack more than 20,000 technologists in Norway at the end of the next ageing period. This is a serious threat to the profitability of Norwegian industry and large parts of Norwegian business. One of the reasons we're training too few technologists is that there's a huge drop-out in higher education, not least in technology. Then you could say that we have to raise the quality of our studies – that's quite clearly part of the answer. But it is that the lack of basic funding for universities and colleges has put them in an economically very stressed situation that makes the work on developing study quality not get the necessary financial resources to do so. As regards both the needs of business and local authorities for technologists and the health care needs of nurses, while the red-green government has managed, the labour force has increasingly been based on imports of foreign skills and labour. It works as long as we have times of crisis in the rest of Europe, but it doesn't work in the long term. The full-time student was a prerequisite for the quality reform in his time. Quality reform is in place and works pretty well, but the full-time student is still missing. There's also in 2012 an equally large wonder, as it has been in the past, how the three red-green parties have managed to negotiate out something that all three agreed on in 2009. The chairperson of the Committee indicates that there has been an increase. The students have received 0.2 pst in eight years. increased purchasing power. When the promise was 10 pst. I'm going to do a little bit of math: if you've increased by 0.2 in eight years, it'll take 400 years to deliver on the promise to all three red-green games. I don't think I'll take my mouth too full if I say that most students in Norway probably can't wait 400 years for the full-time student to be reinstated. The Progress Party proposes an increase in purchasing power of 3 pst. in one year. We don't do that to be nice to the students -- we do that because it's a good investment. It leads to less time behind the 7-Eleven checkout and more time in the reading room. Then, like my colleague Hanekamhaug, I would like to say that I am somewhat surprised and small-minded that the first year of Bachelor's studies is now being extended to a whole range of countries, while the Executive Board says that in the United States, the most offensive and successful higher education and research country in the world, the first year of Bachelor's education should continue to be reserved for children of high-income families. I think that's a bit surprising. It's a housing crisis in many cities. The state has one important tool, and it's student housing. Several students in student housing are good for the students, of course, but it is also good for other players in the rental market because one dampens the price pressure. The progress party believes that the Husbank had been better at managing these funds. We suggest assigning the responsibility for student housing to Husbanken, and increasing student housing from 1000 to 2000 student housing per year. We believe that the main focus must be where the housing pressure is greatest, namely in and around the big cities. I have just read the Research Forum – and that is probably the hundredth headline – on the crisis of building mass in the university and higher education sectors. What upsets me very much about what I read in the Research Forum this month is that, according to the Council of State, there should be a secret list of how bad the situation really is in the sector. I think that's very worrying. The situation is particularly critical one place, which we all know about, and it's at the University of Southern Trøndelag, HiST. Of course, I'll talk about the technology building. I quote from the Committee's attitude from the last year: ‘In this context, the Committee has noted, inter alia, that the plans for the co-location of HiST are clear and emphasises in particular the need for the launch of new technology building for the high school.’ So it was a budgetary comment by a unanimous committee last year. That this year we are again sitting and discussing the exact same thing, shows the powerlessness of the great majority with a red-green, power-provoking government. HisST is the most effective university in Norway. The consequences of the postponement will cost tens of millions of dollars. There's no point in using tax money. Let me quote from the Preacher, chapter 5, verse 4: "It is better that you give him no promise than to promise and not to keep it." I could have said a lot of the same about the museum building at the University of Bergen, and I could have said the same about the Life Science Center at the University of Oslo – building that should have been in place. I'm shocked, in this situation where we lack construction everywhere, that the main measure of the red-green government is to spend 7 billion. kr to move the Veterinary Institute and the Veterinary College from Adamstuen to Ås. It's pointless. I'll get back to research later. I am promoting the proposal that we have in the vote and the proposals to which we are co-rapporteurs today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2421	The representative Tord Lien has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2426	I'm somewhat surprised that Kazakhstan was pulled out by a representative like Tord Lien, whom I know is a knowledgeable man. Kazakhstan has been part of the former Soviet Union, and Russia is good in mathematics -- they've always been, and then the country is naturally characterized by a school culture where mathematics has been important, just so it's said. Harseling over that kind of country, I don't think I'm so dressed, to say it that way. What I want to focus on is a fresh proposal from the Progress Party, which we have just discussed, on more physical activity in school. This is a good example of the tradition of the Progress Party, where they come with fine, well-defined and good intentions and good proposals that are often not reflected in the draft budget. Then it is particularly worrying to use strong words in the debate, as Mette Hanekamhaug, the representative, did. It was, as I said, proposed more physical activity in school, but I do not find it in this year's draft budget. I wonder if the representative Tord Lien is against this being realized? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2433	The President will remind you that the speaking time in a line exchange is up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2436	First with Asia and Kazakhstan: I'm actually trying to say that I'm worried that so many countries in Asia are so much better than us. There are a lot of reasons for that, and it's obvious that a strong culture of technology and real science is a contributing factor in that. I'd like to have more of that culture here, too. We have to bet heavier on mathematics and real science. In terms of body practice, it's like having some ambitions in the longer term. We actually tried in the debate to which the committee chairman himself refers, to open up to get a broad majority to say that we have a goal of getting more exercise in school. The Progress Party has continued to do so. So we know that the Ministry of Knowledge was, on that occasion, a bit creative – they might have taken this with the math training a little too far, because the numbers put on the table in that debate were probably not exactly the size we think is right. But we definitely want more exercise in school in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2443	Both the undersigned and the representative Lien represent Sør-Trøndelag on Stortinget. The big debate in our home country in 2004 was Kristin Clemet's initiative to privatise large sections of School Norway. This would lead in our home country not only to a number of district schools, secondary schools, being threatened, but also to the fact that the breadth of the offer would go down, simply because many of the study specialization sites would be privatized. Then the county would lose economies of scale. Students would have a choice in the form of different logos, but fewer courses to choose from. Now the Bible says that there is more happiness in giving than there is in getting. But I ask myself whether a limited liability company is the right one to give money that is intended to be spent in school. My question to the representative Lien is: Is Lien behind the programme committee of the Progress Party that, in addition to opening up more private schools, they will also benefit from the operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2450	Let me be very clear, first of all, that the most important job of a blue government will be to get proper systems and good results in public school. It has to be invested in public schools, and the Progress Party, when we get into government, is going to put in the main thrust. I think the representative Serigstad Valen makes some assumptions that I'm not sure there's any coverage for. That's how the red-green government believes that it's okay to take out dividends if you're dealing with old-age care. And if you're running kindergarten and beyond all welfare services that private people contribute to, the red-green people think it's okay to take out dividends. We had a big debate about kindergartens. I can't see the huge difference it's going to be taking dividends from schools, but this is part of a programme debate in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2457	I did not really get an answer to what I asked for. What I asked about was whether Lien's representative agreed that it should be opened to take out dividends from high school private schools and private schools in primary school. Then I can follow up with one more question: What kind of motivation does Lien think shareholders from abroad need to have in order to establish schools in Norway? Can Tord Lien imagine that there is only a burning commitment to better target achievement within the plans for training we have in Norway, or can it be that the main purpose is to make money on what was previously the public common school? Does the representative Lien, as a result of what he answers to this, think that it is a good idea to open up large-scale privatisation and commercialisation of the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2464	It is nice that the representative Serigstad Valen is concerned about what I personally believe. I stand on this platform as a spokesman for a party that is in a programme process. Let me say one thing that has to be clear: a lot is good. The public school is most important, also for the Progress Party, and probably also for the rest of the right. Diversity is good, and diversity is a goal in itself. The County Council of Halvorsen has itself been very clear that the child hail lift had not been possible without the help of private people. I do not think I share the view of the representative Serigstad Valen that absolutely all people engaged in business are cold and cynical capitalists. I think it's a burning commitment in many companies to deliver the best they can on what they do, whether they provide care for the elderly, kindergartens or schools. And as long as the quality that is delivered is good, I don't see the fundamental difference in taking out dividends from kindergarten, old age care and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2474	I know that the representative Lien is particularly concerned about research and higher education, and especially about technology. It is that there are several powerful innovation environments and research environments also outside the big cities. I can mention Raufoss, Buskerud or Sunnmare. And how good these environments become depends on the interaction between local business, knowledge institutions and research environments. The regional research funds have proved to play an important role. They shall follow the regionally anchored innovation and development policies and stimulate cross-border cooperation between businesses, educational institutions and research communities. I wonder if the representative Lien agrees with me when I believe that the Progress Party is both a little sloppy and a little old-fashioned when they propose to remove the regional research funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2485	I can confirm that the Progress Party is a cross-sectional or short-thinking one, so we have clarified it! I want to be very clear that we have set up the Norwegian Research Council to ensure that national competitive venues are in place, as the representative Tingelstad Wøien says, to provide support for powerful environments. Fragmenting this down to a whole bunch of small programs doesn't think the Progress Party is sustainable. At least it does not lead to strong, powerful research and innovation environments. And as far as business is concerned out there, I would like to remind the representative of Tingelstad Wøien that the Advance Party's budget proposals have a significant strengthening of the User-led Innovation Arena and Renew 2020 posts, which benefit precisely this type of business, and not least the Tax Fund scheme, which is one of the easiest to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2492	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2495	It must have been especially for the Minister of Knowledge today to wake up to the announcement that Socialist Youth will separate SV as a school party and find other main issues that can work in the election campaign. It must be even more appropriate for the head of the SU to justify the removal of the school from each election since 2005 at the same time as the party has been sitting with the minister of knowledge. One of Norway’s biggest challenges is to create a climate where school success is allowed, and where it is a matter of course that good students are also given the opportunity to climb on in the wood of knowledge without making this a problem in school. Norway is more realistic than ever. Norwegian welfare is borne by industries that are highly engineering intensive. Norwegian competitiveness depends on our being smarter and more innovative. More and better qualified recruits for engineering studies should therefore be considered as an important insurance premium for increased value creation in Norway. To talk about there's one thing, but to do it something else. Effectiveness is about taking the right initiatives at the right time. In education policy, the Right calls for new ideas and better solutions. After seven years of red-green rule, there can be no surprise for the government parties that they are held accountable for their priorities. Right rates in its alternative budget at the top of 2 billion. in addition to the government's budget for knowledge and research. We do that because we've taken a heavy load on ourselves that it costs to build a world-class school and knowledge environments. Then it was bravely done by the Workers' Party to attack Right to weaken the commitment to research. When an overall opposition will reintroduce a research fund to ensure predictability and a gift enhancement scheme to stimulate private contributions, it is neither old-fashioned nor faulty. On the other hand, the government's research policy is based on the lack of recruitment positions and lack of incentives to raise the private research share. A few weeks ago, the famous John Hattie Norway visited to present the main findings in its extensive international study of school research. Right, Hattie's view of stressing the professionally strong teacher as the most important input must have implications for how responsible politicians at all levels prioritise. This week we have been presented with the results of the PIRLS and TIMSS studies. Norwegian school is clocky in the meantime, and we've taken important steps up the knowledge path from a rather unpleasantly low level. We should be pleased with the progress and the fact that researchers now believe that the negative trend in the performance of Norwegian students is reversed. It's also good news that the school is able to lift the weakest. But we have to keep the ground contact, and we have to admit that the school is not able to give all students a greater learning outcomes. We have to reach out for the best countries. And to borrow a verse from the Bible, lift your eyes and look around! Norway needs to learn from other countries. We can look to Finland for teacher training, and to Russia, Japan and Singapore for real science, where all three are distinguished by top results. Norwegian students have to work more with mathematics, and so the Right proposes a new hour in elementary school. And we suggest that homework be moved to the early stages, where the need is much greater, and many parents have to report passports as tutors. It is also a priority for the Parent Committee for the initial training that has been strongly emphasised. In the right, research is an important tool for policy development and for raising the quality of new jobs in Norwegian education. We need to stimulate more research and better research capacity in order to transform new knowledge into new, improved practices in schools and other areas of society. Norway has Petter Northug, but as a knowledge nation we also need many Petter Smarts! We do not achieve the ambitions of the Knowledge Promise without a big effort on the country's teachers, as the Right proposes. On the right, there is a lack of government initiative to introduce and prepare master training for all teachers. The pilot at the University of Tromsø experiences a good search, also at the elementary school education, and we need to learn from the experiences that are now taking place in Tromsø. According to the Central Statistical Office, the danger of a teacher's crisis is imminent. Therefore, all measures to improve teacher training and improve the attractiveness of the teaching profession must be given high priority. That is why, in its 2013 alternative budget proposal, the Right proposes a radical escalation of continuing education for teachers with a higher government funding share and with more decentralised and school-based implementation models. We believe that this is a prerequisite for succeeding in making the right and obligation of continuing education a reality. In 2012, 3671 teachers applied for continuing education in the state strategy, but only half were given priority by their school owners. With the right-hand scheme, we believe that 4,000 teachers should be able to get an offer. The new proposal for 2013 in the Right-wing Budget is that we propose to allocate 50 million. to a level of competence for trainers. Many teachers have a far too distant relationship with the school to which they are going to train new teachers, and it is a problem that teacher training does not meet the needs of newly educated teachers. At the same time, it is important to ensure that teacher training is of high quality in its many continuing training courses for today's teachers. The right-hand side is also going to be 10 million. to work for new career paths in school. This is an important measure for proud professionals to be rewarded for professional perfectionation, and we can avoid so many jumping out of school. This is particularly important in the real world, but for example: The Norwegian profession is also under pressure as regards access to qualified teachers. The right places both better teachers and qualified teachers in front of a detached project with 600 teaching positions divided into 170 of the country's 3,000 schools. The project is carried out at the top of the school owners, and the government binds to 1.5 billion. kr – or four times that spent annually on empowerment for the rest of the teachers, who could provide 8 000 to 10 000 teachers with continuing training, which in turn could have benefited large parts of the country’s student flock. Today's shortage of teachers is likely to mean 600 more unskilled, and the government is in my opinion on a collision course with Hattie's conclusion that the teacher's qualifications are crucial, not the group size. The number of pupils in need of special education continues to increase in Norway. At the same time, research shows that the quality and learning outcomes of these students are not as they should be. It's worrying. On the right, we believe that we need to look at new solutions to improve the success of early interventions and to counteract further bureaucratic procedures on special education. Here, Finland succeeds in its ‘special teachers’, and the Right has proposed that we have to make arrangements where the PP service is reorganised and becomes more school-based. Expertise must be in the hands of the students and teachers in order to provide good guidance and take action at the earliest possible stage. On the right, the evaluation of the New GIV has given us the right to take action in the past at high school; one should not wait until after Christmas in the 10th grade. A new SSB report points to the correlation between weak results on 8th-class national tests and weak 10th-class positions, which is absolutely the case. Obviously, the context of science was mathematics. With this knowledge, the Right no longer considers it possible to reserve new GIV measures for the last six months of secondary schooling. Help needs to be provided in the first year of secondary school, so that students can experience increased mastery throughout high school, and obtain professional results that enable them to successfully complete secondary education. It brings me to higher education and the need for further measures to reduce the drop-out. Several apprenticeships are essential in order to meet the needs of society for skilled labour. Right, the government's 2015 target is too defensive, and we're very impatient to get up the state's share of the apprenticeships. 20 pst. increase for the country from a very low point of view does not amount to much when we know that one in three applicants did not receive a course on 1 November this year. Furthermore, there are large regional differences, which are also a problem. Right, we think we need to have more ambitious measures for the state, and we need to escalate the apprentice grant. It is positive that the government will set up a training office for the State sector, but this office should have the whole country as a dissemination area. Knowledge shall be at the hub of the North Zone bet. That's why the right is now proposing 1 million. kr to Murmansk School, so that there can be as many Norwegian and Russian students. The secondary school in Murmansk, which is a collaboration between Troms County Municipality and Murmansk Oblast, is a success, and it is forward-looking Northern Region Policy. So in the end, another important North Region initiative is the stepping up of engineering colleges at the University of Narvik in order to provide the oil, gas and mineral industries with enough engineers, and here we know that the potential for new jobs is great. My final appeal to the Council of State is therefore that the sale of student housing in Narvik must be largely prevented. More places of study and fewer student homes are not linked. Selling 40 pst. by student housing will undermine the government's own investment in engineering training in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2553	The right has long claimed that this is a government that takes the country in the wrong direction. The representative Aspaker still claims that Norwegian school is in bad shape. The truth is, the arrows are now pointing up in math, science and reading. The representative Aspaker had a solid stomach patch on Tuesday. In the morning she said that she expected that the international results in math and natural sciences would show that we did not move in the right direction. The truth is, the representative of Aspaker was wrong. In the evening she pushed out and tried to explain why she and the Right should be grateful for these results – strange, when she was willing to blame us for everything a few hours earlier. Blessed are the humble, because they shall inherit the earth. We get results because we prioritise more skilled teachers and teaching hours. It costs money. With Røjre's municipal structure, the economy of 373 municipalities, cuts in appropriations for the county. This is school cut, and I ask the Right: What is most important – knowledge and learning or tax gifts to the richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2562	Let it be clear: what I feared, the fear I had, was made to shame. Fortunately, I am very happy that the results that came show that Norway is on the right track. But I think you should be careful to report Norwegian school, for all the researchers involved – whether it was in PIRLS or in TIMSS – stressed that there is obviously still a job to do here. There is no doubt that the Right will give the job the first and highest priority. This is why we have set aside historically high appropriations for continuing education and training, so we are willing to go to master's education, so we will start new career paths for teachers – the measures that will help to strengthen Norwegian school and enable them to lift all students further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2569	This sounds very good, and I am very pleased that the representative Aspaker is now willing to make some concessions that the government's school policy actually works – and works well – and takes School Norway in the right direction. Then I hope she also wants us to continue after the election. But I'm worried. I remember the last time the Right was in government. Then it was cut to the municipalities. They're adding up to that now as well. We have e.g. See how it goes in Bergen, where the students are in low-level, the right-hand lavvo, which I like to call it. Right doesn't matter prioritizing school when they're in government, they're taking school in the wrong direction, and it's simply because they're prioritizing tax cuts to the richest rather than knowledge to our kids. Can the representative Aspaker guarantee that she will not prioritize tax cuts to the richest if she comes to government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2576	An erroneous claim about the Right Priorities is no longer true because it is repeated several times by the representative Truls Wickholm. If you're going to start looking beyond the Kingdom on how different municipalities are able to prioritize the school, I think Truls Wickholm should go quite quietly in the doors. I've been with my own home country, Troms. So the municipalities now sit in their budgets, they cut to school, they cut to care – and it's under today's government, which should appear to be so much more amazing than previous governments have been. No, I think you should sweep at your own door, and then you should realize that school is actually such an important theme that it deserves the state to spend more money on the table for continuing education, to take a greater national responsibility for getting a new teacher training in place, and actually to do some priorities that, at the overall level, should contribute to and ensure that we manage to lift the school in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2585	It is not just by tax cuts that the Right Priorities go away both care, public welfare and school. They have a re-prioritisation of the tax regime for the municipalities that will lead to a very large number of states going out crooked. My own state, the South Throne Team, will lose 135 million. kr in income. The different municipalities can ask themselves what kind of bet in the public general school you get from it. The Bible says: As apples of gold in bowls of silver are words spoken at the proper time. The representative Aspaker was not so lucky to live up to the words when in a few hours she went from preparing the ground to blame the red-green and Kristin Halvorsen for the decline in our international results for the humble and unselfish taking on the glory of progress afterwards, after the red-green government has thus been sitting for more than seven years. So my question to the representative of Aspaker is: if the results had shown yesterday that the arrow went straight down, would Aspaker unselfishly throw himself up and on behalf of the Right take on responsibility for the decline in the results?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2594	Yes, Aspaker had come to do that! We can't have school reforms in this country that don't work, and I believe we're on the verge of recognising that the Knowledge promise that came in 2004, adopted in this room with quite broad support actually, almost unanimous, put some new pieces in place in terms of basic skills, focus on the basics and the importance of there being some building blocks in the pupils' everyday life that need to be able to build the further knowledge on it. Then I want to say what Snorre Serigstad Valen said about the local economy: The fact that the Central Party has abused its department to construct a local economy model in which no one in the Right is familiar, and which is in a way based on random parameters etc., the Center Party itself gets an answer, but at least it is not a policy that the Right is going to pursue towards the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2602	After hearing the post of the representative Aspaker, it is almost so I also have to quote the Bible: "Why do you see the tile in your brother's eyes, but the beam in your own eye don't you notice?" You can put forward some really good suggestions about what you want to bet on, but after all, you have to pay for it. We have now been told that with Højre's municipal planning 373 municipalities throughout the country will lose. 55 municipalities are going to profit from it. In addition, the Right 600 teaching positions in secondary school, which strive to improve the results, cut-offs in support of the Student Union, cut-offs in the fruit and vegetables system and cut-offs in support of homework for the smallest. How does the Right view that we should get a better school by cutting the municipal economy for those who have little before and giving to those who have the most from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2614	With all the fine quotations from an important and great book, I now understand that the name of the committee begins with the word "church".
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2617	Now, the representative Tingelstad Wøien also commits the wrong to the Right that she refers to a municipal economic model that the Senterpartiet has been calculated in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and that is not the municipal economic model we are going to use. I record that around Norway's country today, rapporteurs and local government politicians from all parties are tearing their hair and asking where they can cut. In its alternative budget in the field of education, the right has spent nearly two billion. kr. There is a lot of money, which is going to benefit the most students in Norwegian school. We give priority to continuing education for thousands of teachers instead of 600 posts to be allocated to 170 schools, one school in Finnmark, five, six in three municipalities in Troms – this is not a matter of concern if you really believe that you want to improve the quality of your school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2624	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2627	First, I'm sorry I haven't run away. It has something to do with poor internal communication in the red-green fraction. I'm also going to skip Bible quotes, but in return, Snorre Serigstad Valen has had so many of them, so I expect SV to have done his job there, at least – but I'm out of the loop. So a little bit for the debate on the local economy situation. I've been to the budget debate on the Municipal Committee. There was the Right's message offensive, yes, it's very important with a redistribution in Municipality-Norway. More needs to be given to large central growth municipalities – Oslo 1.3 billion. kr, Lillehammer minus 10 and Gjøvik minus 23. And it was with pride that the right representatives presented it in that debate, but it was said that the municipalities that got red numbers with that scheme were going to bring it down over several years through a guarantee scheme. That was the main message. Clearly, it was a redistribution, and it was right - hand proud of it in the municipal committee. The Norwegian school is good, and it's about to get even better. That should make us all happy. These international studies – PISA, TIMSS and PIRLS – do not measure everything and do not give a complete picture of the situation in Norwegian schools, but they provide some important indicators on the state of the art in key subjects. So after seven years of red-green school policy, the trend is clear: Norwegian school is on the right track, the professional level is on the way up, the students learn more than before – in reading, mathematics and nature science – and, what I think is particularly pleasing, the differences between students are being reduced. Increasingly fewer ports are below the critical threshold for the level of learning in key subjects. The strongest progress is precisely at the lowest levels, which means that we are in the process of laying a good foundation for progress in school. In addition, there is also reason to believe – and this is an extra good picture – that the areas that such studies do not measure and that cannot be measured or investigated with such method tools used here are probably even better. In key areas such as maturity, creativity, understanding of democracy, social and cultural competence, well-being and learning, etc., our students are judged to be above the average evenly above when we compare with other countries. That should also delight us all. When Elisabeth Aspaker says in his post that it is too early to ‘healthy’ Norwegian school, there is strong rhetoric. Does the Right really mean that Norwegian school is sick? Is it really the message from the Right in the debate here today to teachers, to students, to parents, that Norwegian school is still ill? Well, it's going forward, but still we can't say it's 'fresh'. It's a strong message. I hope that the right here was a little unlucky with the wording saying. I overheard a conversation between two of my daughters a few years ago. One had had an oral exam earlier in the day and had probably not exactly succeeded so violently – I am still a little uncertain about what the character was. The other asked how it had gone, and then she who had had the exam answered that the sensor had a bad day at work. There is no doubt that teachers and schoolteachers have not had bad days at work in the last few years of Norwegian school when they can refer to such progress – not students either, for that matter – and perhaps we should also praise some parents here, who have become more focused and active in recent years. That's very good. But it is primarily teachers and school leaders who are to have the honor. We all kind of struggle to say that the teachers are important, and I think we can say that we're pretty much in agreement. The difference isn't that big. So we shouldn't go all the way to the other extreme and say that when research shows that the teacher is most important, we don't need to spend any money or attention on other things. There is no scientist who believes it by his message, but they say that in this priority fight, where they must have many thoughts in their head at the same time, it is important to lift up the teacher and the school leadership, and it really has the red-green government done in recent years. So the red-green knowledge policy works, it works, slowly but surely. And when we took over in time -- it's beginning to be many years ago, fortunately -- we canceled the right-hand privatisation experiment, and we think that was very important. Because just this common school approach is one of the reasons why we succeed as well as we do. I think that we political parties must be a little tidy: we cannot both celebrate the Norwegian model of society, i.e. a society and a model that contributes to small differences, where we are very concerned about developing the ability to live together in a trusting and respectful way – and at the same time turn the school system in the opposite direction, into a school system where we split students and parents in public and private, and where we early split students into so-called good and less good students. For the school has to train and form, and we have to learn and practice to be good in math, but the jam we also have to learn and practice to live together across classes, ethnicity and sex, etc. A teacher like a liver. Then we have to have a common school where we need to gather just to learn about, and not least learn the sea, through practice, by learning together, by going to the parents' meeting together, by engaging in leisure activities together. Then we're going to create a very good basis for us to be able to take care of and further process the Norwegian model of society. There are many positive things that we're going to notice – and for safety's sake, we're not saying that everything is really good now. We definitely don't say that. What has been written in the setting here is very clear. But what's particularly interesting and important is that it looks like the teaching profession is getting more popular again. There has been increased status, increased interest, and more people are re-entering our teacher training courses. So we can also get more teachers into our school, which we think is very important. We don't think it's right to say that research clearly shows that more teachers are wrong. That's not what research shows. Then we're into this with having two thoughts in our head at the same time. We have to look at what's behind this research, but there's a connection between the teacher's density and the individual student and the individual parent's experience of quality in the school in which they go and in which they have their kids. What I like about the red-green school effort now is that we're just going to base this on early effort. That's why we, for example. has started with the homeworker early. It's not because we're opposed to homework in high school. Obviously, we have the ambition to get it into high school. But it's important that we just get to grips with it very early, that the good experience begins in kindergarten and in high school. So we've laid a good foundation for each student, and then we're just going to develop our own training system, so it's going to be good throughout the course. And we're on it. Young schooling is very good – sadly, there is not full excitement in this room that 600 more teachers are needed to live out that high schooling effort. So here there's a good basis for further work, and I think almost all the parties, at least we red-green, are looking forward to going into the election campaign with this theme. We know that here's something that says in the right direction. Here it is with wind, and then we have to take it further and cultivate what works. And we start gradually through good research to know quite a lot about what kind of relationships work. I have so much been involved in this with privatisation, and I will take it again. It's very strange, and I can't help but realize that there must be ideological reasons why the Right Party and the Advance Party so clearly want to take back the old legislation that was really privatizing School-Norway. It's not reasonable to say that, yes, we're going to bet on the common school, etc. As soon as you reintroduce that law, you have reintroduced a right for actors to apply to start school, and thus it is open to that right. Then it doesn't help that you still say politically that you're going to bet in high school. When that right arises, one has to say yes to those who come in that way. Then we have something very unfortunate going on, which I wonder is that the Right Party and the Advance Party are taking the chance. We could've gotten together about the project that's now going on, which is so diverse and so exciting, and which, in other ways, it really looks like the right parts just want more of. So dear Right and Advance Party: Forget your privatisation ambitions!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2664	The representative, Hagen, is into it himself: the right to apply, even in the Norwegian community, does not mean the right to get anything. I'd like to remind you of that. The representative also says it's going the right way. It's going straight in many areas, definitely. I get a little worried every time SV starts talking about democracy understanding and education and trying to say it's okay, and then it kind of goes well with the Norwegian school. I don't think it's possible to achieve either formation or understanding of democracy without being able to read. There's still too many people who can't read, and so they're excluded from those arenas. There's so much talk about more teachers. Is that what we are adopting today? We know that competent teachers are important to the school, and we talk about more teachers. No, it's 9 000 for a few teachers already today, and then 600 new jobs are to be created for teachers. Then you get 9,600 for a few teachers. Or does the representative Hagen think that today's decision in the storeroom there are suddenly 600 teachers right outside here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2673	First of all, Tord Lien knows that I didn't say that if Norwegian students had a good sense of democracy, everything is very well. I said the exact opposite, I said it was so good and important that we can now see that the basic skills are moving forward. In addition, it is important that, for example: democracy, etc. is in place. Is that what we really need in society in the future – both nationally and not least internationally – is just getting better at democratic understanding, getting better at all living and dealing with a multicultural society, which at least in SV we see that we have, and still want to have. So it was this thing with teachers once again: it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. We're increasing the demand for teachers, while increasing educational capacity and trying to motivate more people to become teachers. We should not least invest in continuing education for those who still do not have formal education while they are teachers at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2680	I can assure the representative Aksel Hagen that we have a common ambition to have a good public school. And the new GIV is one of the good measures that are being taken to ensure that more people complete higher education. This starts already in the last six months in the 10th grade. Now the results of this work have been clear over the past few weeks. First of all, it turns out that this helps a little bit for someone, but it does little to help the weakest. So it's too late and too little. The other thing that has emerged is that there is a clear correlation between those students who in 8th grade have worse results and those who in 10th grade are on the same level. Right is for New GIV, but we've been very clear that we're going to put it in at the 8th step. This has been consistently rejected by SV, with the state council at the head. Now the representative was clearly at grips with things early on. Is SV now ready to insert new GIV into 8th class based on what we now know?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2689	Both the government and the SV are ready for that. Here was the idea of going in and saving/helping those who were about to quit high school and go to a high school. Measures were put in place, and it worked well in many ways. Then we go to the 9th grade, and then we go to the 8th grade, to expand this out. We start by helping those who need it most there and then, and then we build it out, so that it becomes a more complete offer. This is something discussed – to put it mildly – and there was a big look-up in the evening post, which the evening post itself lamented the following day, after the researchers stood up and said they had been misunderstood in the wrong way. All that the department said about this was quite correct, but there was perhaps a press release that could be misunderstood. The evaluation showed that both students and teachers were very satisfied with it, and the weakest students, in contrast to what Svein Harberg says, were helped. Among those that were on grade one, we could see positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2698	The representative was concerned about being on the right track. And as the Preacher says, "The heart of the wise leads on the right path, but the mind of the fool goes wrong." Let me pick up a little point where I feel like you might have been on wild roads here. There has been a cross-political agreement that we should have an additional grant to Kongshaug Musikgymnas, because they have driven a clean music line, which is more expensive than a dance/drama line. But when there was a situation where Oslo City Stone School also wanted to run a clean music line and thought that they needed equal treatment here, the government decided that non-discrimination is to take Kongshaug's contribution to driving this extra music line. Does SV think that's the right equal treatment, that we're taking away those who already have? It is probably also a well - known concept from the Bible, which is called Matthew’s effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2706	It's not well done to ask questions that way to a humanetist. Fortunately, I am involved in a government cooperation with the Center Party and the Workers' Party, so I would recommend Dagrun Eriksen to look for the answer that Marianne Aasen gave to a similar question earlier in this debate. What I have seen from this debate – I have not followed it so closely – is that what is normal is that a person has a complex line that a person is financing in a certain way. Then there are extra challenges when one picks out the activity, just music, which costs the most, but as far as I have an overview, it's the dance that costs the least. It may be right to break up the three different activities and make special offers. Then one has to review the financing model or the cost key, and I am convinced that our good government will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2715	I was actually going to ask about research, because SV's main posts did not contain anything about it. But I think that the answer to Christian People's Party's question was so strange that I want to elaborate on it. If Aksel Hagen had taken the time to visit such a school, which according to SV is terrible and private, he would have seen that he probably had very many voters there. There's probably a lot of disappointed SVs going on these lines. When the school was established, Oslo SV voted against the city board. Then I had two old SVs sitting in my office crying, because they couldn't understand why the party with what they stood for could be so opposed to them being allowed to develop these school ideas. Does the representative have no understanding that these are actually amazing school offers that many people think they get good benefits from going on? These are good schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2729	Firstly, there are at least two research papers from SV later in the debate, which are included. Secondly, no, the actual school I haven't visited. I've visited many other schools. Third, I tried at least in my post to say that I was open. Here it was a challenge. I do not know the details of the matter, and I regret that. So I'm not actually working on school themes right now, but I just said that we had to look at this. I even said that I expect the government to find solutions, because it is not right that neither the government nor the Swedish government should initially have an anxious relationship with such schools – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2738	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2741	Despite what you might have got the impression of the later years, I guess, it's doing a good job in Norwegian school now. Last Tuesday, we got proof of that. Norwegian students have improved in both reading, mathematics and natural sciences. The lowest performing readers have improved by one year in development. I'm going to do a little more: we've arranged for a more complete school day, which doesn't mean all day school. A whole school day means a better relationship in school day. There children get more education and better and more varied teaching. They've got more physical activity, they're getting fruit and green and homework. The basic subjects of Norwegian, math and English have been strengthened and a statutory obligation for early intervention has been introduced. We have organized the secondary school to make it more practical, varied and relevant for the students. We have introduced electoral disciplines, we have introduced practical work subjects, and we have introduced professional education choices. The assessment requirements have been amended and learning is now considered well. In fact, the new GIV has been positive for the target group that is the weakest performing students, and we have introduced both math strategy and read strategy to improve results in Norwegian and real science. There are several not dropping out of Vg1 and Vg2 and there are several doing secondary education. There are also a number of people who get apprenticeships because, as the first, this government has got a cooperation agreement with the social partners. It's a doubling of the number of applicants for the teacher schools, and we've recruited more people for engineering and technology than before. Several teachers are now receiving continuing training, and the compensation system has also been improved. There are more students than ever before, and there is money allocated to the construction of twice as many student homes as before. Despite the febrile attempts of the opposition on black paint, the research budget has also increased by 6.7 billion. DKK from 2005 to 2013. That is a real growth of 32 pst. It is not so bad in Education-Norway with red-green school policy. In the presentation of TIMSS and PIRLS Tuesday, it was emphasised by the researcher that positive attitude to learning, positive attitude to reading, positive attitude to the teacher, to the students and to the school in general gave better results. So positive focus helps students do better. I guess that applies to us adults as well. That's why I have to say to the opposition and return to the representative Aspaker, as Ezekiel said: "Raise your eyes to the high place, and see." I'll add something from Solomon's proverb: ‘Rejoice in the heart gives good health. Mistakes tolerable on many and bones.’» So we're not going to settle for a good account so far? On the contrary, the Center Party is happy that we're on the right track. We have had too much impact on the good central part of the school policy with our partners. It motivates further work and several years in government. Much remains to be done to improve both initial and higher education both for education and for the education of the whole person. I expect that both the government's big message about the Knowledge promise and the new research message will provide good guidance for the further work on this in the future. As Paul said in his letter to the Galatians: "So let's do good to everyone as long as it's time." Our biggest challenge is to ensure that the young people who start out in public schools reach the learning goals set and come out motivated and full of knowledge after ten years. It is therefore a major challenge when the figures show that motivation goes down towards the end of the 10th class — and not up. Therefore, it is important that the school days of the students are motivating and learning. It's not just the number of hours that counts, but the professional content of the hours and not least the well-being and mastering. It's important that we understand that well-being is a fundamental prerequisite for success. The ability to learn throughout our lives gives us motivation and joy. We must not forget that there are still people in our country who lack completely basic skills, such as reading, writing and calculating. For the Center Party, it is important that we facilitate learning throughout our lives and provide this group with an adapted offer, preferably in combination with work, as the BKA scheme provides. The studies must also be able to be decentralised, including through online studies around the country. The centre party is engaged in an education system that takes care of and carries on our culture and thus our identity. In this context, study associations in particular play a central role. The transfer of old knowledge and non-formal learning is very important to strengthen our cultural identity. If learning outcomes are to improve and increase competence, the Centre Party considers that the education system needs to be flexible, more practical from primary to higher education and better adapted to the needs of pupils, the labour market and the individual. Research always engages and is always topical. The growth of the world's population challenges society in ever-increasing areas. We're going to have more food and safe food. We need new technology, we need more energy, and we need new welfare solutions. We challenge our climate, and we challenge the economy. In this picture, we know that Norwegian research can contribute in several areas, both alone and in cooperation internationally. Norwegian institutions must then, in cooperation with the authorities, be able to meet those challenges. We know there are many institutions that are good, but we can get better. We need to aim to get higher on the international ranking. Innovation is becoming important on all sides. The district colleges in their time were an important contribution to the possibility of taking higher education in the districts. Today we are more mobile, but colleges still play a major role in their district. A nearby university institution attracts students, but it can also contribute to innovation, research and development in its district. Cooperation between higher education and business, local or regional policy, is of great importance to the development of our country. I can take an example from my own home country: the University of Gjøvik, either in collaboration with the research community of the Defence at Jørstadmoen or in collaboration with the research community at Raufoss, is a very important driving force for the Uppland community. But it's a prerequisite that the quality of colleges is kept high. We're going to have high demands and ambitions for them, which we're going to have to go to our universities, whether they're never that old. So colleges have a unique and very important position in our society. By more delegating to the individual institution, there is also an even greater responsibility to direct its activities in line with the institution’s prioritisation strategies. That being said, we know that in the future we will need a lot more education in health care. Being an engineer by going the Y-way has been very successful, and I look forward to getting good results with the institutions that are going to facilitate the Y-way in the field of health. It'll be exciting to see the students who choose such a path do it. Schools, universities and colleges are not for themselves, but for giving students and students knowledge and education. It is therefore important that there is a balance of expectations between institutions, students, students and the labour and business sectors. Education institutions must meet individuals, and as politicians we must ensure that the system ensures that we have different interests and learn different ways, and that there are always doors that are open to the goals to which it extends. I believe that this budget and the measures of the Centre Party and this government have implemented these years show that we are on the right track to ensure that everyone gets the most out of school. For youth, for our lives, disappears like a breath, it says in the Preacher. Then it is very important that we help fill youth with good and meaningful content.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2797	The president has learned a good deal about the Bible today. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2802	The Progress Party has long been the most obvious voice when it comes to the importance of real-time vocational training, but every single time we have made proposals aimed at strengthening real-time vocational training or trying to promote debate on it, the government has effectively put an end to any debate by demonstrating that this is offered as an electoral subject. But the most recent figures that have been published in recent weeks show that very few schools have actually chosen to offer real science as an elective subject, but have also chosen to give priority to other subjects, such as music, dance, theatre and the like. My question is therefore whether the representative of Tingelstad Wøien nevertheless believes that the government's commitment to real science is good enough, or whether the importance of introducing more of the measures The Progress Party has promoted to strengthen the status of these subjects in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2809	I choose to interpret the representative Hanekamhaug there that she is talking about the electoral subjects in high school. The real subject of government is much wider than that. It's not just one choice you can choose from in high school that's going to be our real subject. A mathematical strategy has been pursued over several years, which is one of the measures that has been launched, as well as many other measures. The choice of upper secondary education should be an opportunity, for example: Taking mathematics at a higher level. I think there's going to be more and more schools that are going to offer e.g. real science also in the electoral fields as they are today. We're getting new electoral skills as early as next year, which gives us more opportunities for doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2816	‘He that hath ears heareth.’ Two municipalities in East Agder, three municipalities in Oppland, from which the representative Tingelstad Wøien comes, three municipalities in Troms and one municipality in Finnmark – these four counties are struggling with a great lack of secondary education and need an increase in teacher competence, because they also have very weak student outcomes out of primary school. So the government wants to spend 1.5 billion. SEK 600 teachers in 170 schools in Norway. The same money could have provided continuing training for 8 000 to 10,000 teachers, who could benefit all the country's 3,000 schools. How can the representative of the Central Party defend such a priority, when it is obvious that the need out there is quite different from what is covered by picking out 170 random schools, which have just been won in some government lottery?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2827	First, I would like to say that I do not agree with the representative, Aspaker, when she says that all of these states are struggling with a great lack of secondary education. In Oppland, there is actually a very good implementation rate in higher education. - That's what they say. In the case of the 600 posts, it is not like winning a lottery. They have actually suffered a loss in the initial rounds, as they have low primary school credits. I think it's going to be a good system, which we're now going to test over four years, and then we'll see if it has an effect that you have a higher teacher's density in those schools where you've had low primary school credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2835	I want to ask from a slightly different angle, because I know the Center Party as a local democracy party – along with the Left. We have fought hard, with the two heels longer reasoning required to have faith in local democracy. I know politicians who have run election campaigns to raise the teacher's density, and who have wanted to be elected only because of it. They have received the support of local voters because it is the most important thing that these politicians vote for. They're able to push some extra teachers into the budgets, which means that they just have too many teachers to get support from this scheme. On the other hand, the politicians in the neighbouring municipality, who have not given priority to teachers and who do not think it is so important to have a teacher's density, and who have actually made sure that this has slowed down – they receive a government premium by getting some extra teachers. Does not Tingelstad Wøien see that this fundamentally breaks with our view of local democracy and what the Left and the Central Party have agreed on, that choosing local politicians will have some consequences and that you should listen to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2846	Well, I see it can have such consequences. You say that you really want all the municipal politicians to be left and centre party representatives, so that you could give priority to the school. It would have been very good. I think that the main assumption that must be on the ground if we're going to make it possible to achieve a higher teacher's density in a municipality is a good municipal economy. In recent days, including in the debate in the Municipal Committee, we have been given examples of a possible blue-green government having a major impact on the local economy. This means that it becomes even more difficult to prioritize teachers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2853	The representative Tingelstad Wøien was inside the New GIV in his main post. We have now received an evaluation of the New GIV, which shows that this measure has had an impact on 10 p.m. of the 10 pst. weakest. There are 1's candidates you can raise in Norwegian, while the effect in mathematics isn't even present for these students. I'm a teacher myself, and if I'm going to be completely honest, it's letting students go 2.5 years in high school without doing anything special, and then putting them on an intensive course after Christmas in the 10th grade and expecting miracles at that time, little realistic. Is the representative of Tingelstad Wøien now willing to reconsider the timing of introducing new GIV measures in secondary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2862	According to my concepts, the new GIV is a transition project that is really going to be able to make itself redundant when we in the red-green government are allowed to sit a few more years in the premises. The whole idea of the red-green school policy has been to lift from the bottom, and that means from the first grade up. All the measures that the opposition now cuts shall be a shift up to secondary school and out of 10th grade. The measures now taken in secondary, electoral and work-related education — all of this should be a building block for us to avoid having New GIV at the end. Then I just have to say that the effect that New GIV has now had has led to more teachers who have been trained in New GIV, and it will also spread to the rest of the secondary school stage, so that the whole stage will be able to take part in another way of teaching that will benefit all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2871	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2874	As several of my co-representatives have been involved, we received this Tuesday news about the rise in the results of TIMSS and PIRLS. It is positive, and I think that the representative of Wickholm should not be so sorry that the representative of Aspaker turned around, for as James says: "He who causes a sinner to turn from his wild ways, his soul hides from death, and hides a multitude of sins." And as John also writes in his third letter: “Nothing pleases me more than to hear that my children live in the truth.” But it's mainly the teachers who today deserve honor for having turned this around in school. I am pleased with the knowledge promise that was launched by Bondevik II, and that it now seems to give good results. The promise of knowledge is based on a broad recognition that we are never allowed to take rest cuts and settle down on the fact that the students have weak basic skills and skills in reading, writing and billing. At the same time, I believe that the results of PISA and other tests are far too much allowed to make the main proposals for the educational policy priorities we are making. The problem is that the broad societal mandate of the curriculum is not used as a basis for the tests, but that the OECD's narrow economic approach to what is important becomes effective. I think the school needs a broader knowledge view. We in the Christian People's Party have promoted UNESCO's Pillars of Education in order to counteract a narrow and one-sided economic-based vision of knowledge. All training must rest on four supports: ‘learning to know’ — knowledge and knowledge ‘learning to do’ — skills and practical action ‘learning to live together’ — community and social competences ‘learning to be’ — personality and character development If we slurp with one of those columns, we weaken the equilibrium and make the Norwegian school confused like the sloping tower in Pisa. The Christian People's Party does not support a unilateral school policy focus on target management and knowledge, demands and control. We want to point out that the school is a greenhouse, not just a knowledge-producing business. We want a school that takes its broad building mandate seriously and gives children and young people both education and personal creation. Therefore, I believe that the promise of knowledge needs to be supported by a value pledge. In the same way as the basic skills, core values, set out in the school's purpose paragraph, must be included in the large and committed joint project of the local school: respect for human dignity and nature, freedom of spirit, close love, forgiveness, equivalency and solidarity. The school's quality mission is to give all children and young people golden moments every day. Because each child is unique and comes to school with his whole life story, diversity is the biggest challenge of the school. That's why it's as important as the arena for dialogue and bridge construction, where we as individuals and groups are, and will be, different. That is why the fight against bullying needs to be reclaimed every day, through systematic work. That's why we need greater variation between theory and practical forms of learning. That's why the school needs not only more and even better teachers, but also environmental therapists and health sisters. The school's foremost task is at last to make all children and young people winners in their lives. This is the last state budget we deal with in this period. The Christian People's Party has been recognizable all along how we have dealt with the government's proposals. Our arguments and our positions are the same. We believe that the government's basic problem in school policy is that they have prioritised mistakes by spending billions of hours. We want a new school policy course, where instead of several hours we are betting on more and even better teachers, a better high school and the fight against high school drop-outs. As stated in Job’s book: "So let's pick what's right, and together figure out what's good." A good school is completely dependent on good and many enough teachers. The teacher is the school's most important resource, so we want to spend the money on the teachers. The relationship between teacher and student is much more crucial for a good school than the government of today adds up to. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we propose to increase teacher's density by allocating 250 million. kr for more teachers. We also want a more ambitious investment in continuing training for teachers and propose 260 million. NOK to this. In addition, we have in our alternative budget appropriations for our mandatory mentoring system, which is very good, and for which more people should have agreed. The lack of mastery and motivation makes an extra big impression at the secondary school stage. That's why we're proposing to grant $20 million. kr more through the project New GIV for quality development in secondary school. It is to be used for more practical education and to have more professional groups in secondary school. Bullying in school is a major problem. Bullying is complicated and emotional, it's very demanding for all the parties involved, and it's hard to solve the situation. When parents and students feel that they are not being taken seriously, it is important to have a place to turn to for help. That is why we in the Christian People's Party believe that a bully should be introduced in each state, as the Christian People's Party has been implemented in Buskerud. There will be a place where it is easy for parents at an early stage to turn to to get help on how to end the bullying. There are major differences in the provision of municipal cultural education. Many are in line, and it is far to the goal of a good cultural school offering for everyone who wants it. The government's solution to this, and the first time they got their hands on the cultural education issues in this government period, was when they could include it in the full-day school thinking, by letting it become a cultural school offer in the school and SFO days of childhood, 1–4. steps. I think one hour of free cultural school in school doesn't solve the problem. Instead, there should be a stepping-up of earmarked state resources for the cultural schools at their own premises. I've been in Kongshaug in two of my lines and don't go much more into the situation there, but there's an unresolved situation for the next school year, and you get into a very difficult situation. I will conclude by quoting from Paul's first letter to the Corinthians, where he says: ‘In the same way, lifeless instruments such as flute or harp are used. If there's no difference in their notes, how can one then perceive what's being played?' We need to focus on knowledge, education and research. It is worrying that the current government in its budgets has systematically reduced the priority of the university and higher education sectors or is not clearly committed to research in a good enough way. We believe that if we're going to get business research up to an acceptable level, we need to facilitate incentives like TaxFUNN, other schemes and BIA funds, which means we're getting that funding up. One would think ten minutes is a lot, but it'll always be a little too little time! Let me spend the last few minutes on the church budget. We have now received the first church-appointed bishop in the Norwegian Church. But the financial responsibility has this Stortinget through the state-church agreement said that it still stands for it. We have established a faith training reform that would be a 5-year project, which would run from 1 January 2004, and that the reform would escalate over the next five years to 250 million. kr in 2003-krona. A great many churches have not yet been allowed to participate in that reform because the government has not followed the escalation plan that we agreed on. We want to get to port quickly with what Stortinget promised at the time. It would be taking the whole state-church deal seriously. It is also important that the Church has access to new tools and tools to fulfil its societal mission. The Church Council and the KA have for more than two years prepared a common platform for the Church's digital communications. The acquisition has been tendered and the choice of supplier is now in the final phase. However, the plans for a coherent network deployment for the Norwegian Church are now in danger of stopping completely as appropriations were not proposed in the next year's budget. As a result, there is a great danger that important competences and investments that have already been made may be lost. This is what the Christian People's Party wants to change, and we did so in our alternative budget – which would otherwise have been a much better budget than what underlies today's budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2944	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2947	The representative Eriksen himself mentioned the results of the international studies in reading, mathematics and natural sciences, which were presented last Tuesday. They show a happy progress for Norwegian elephants. This progress is due to systematic and good work by teachers across the country and to the results of the measures we put into Norwegian school. Among other things, we have Strengthened childhood by five hours in Norwegian, math and English. We know that this strengthened effort on the child nurse has made Norwegian elephants even better. Then it's with wonder I record that the Christian People's Party wants to cut these hours. So my question to the representative Dagrun Eriksen is: how can the representative defend these cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2956	I don't think there'll be any evidence to say that it's actually the increased hours that have given this result. It is – as the representative said in his question – the efforts of the teachers who have done, but it is also the fundamental change that was made when the Knowledgelift was introduced in the Norwegian school, where there were actually much greater demands for basic competence, and where the tool that did. Then I also want to give honey to the red-green ones because you have followed up the knowledge promise in a good enough way. But there is no evidence that it is the session hours that have given this great progress. It's the teachers that are the important factor. We still believe that it has been a wrong priority – and we know that researchers support us – to spend so many billions. Think of what results we could have obtained if we had spent it on continuing education, or on getting even more teachers in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2965	One praise and one question: Rosen goes on the presentation of the knowledge vision of the Christian People's Party. It was very beautiful to listen to. I can't help but understand that the Christian People's Party agrees, without having to be aware of it, in our school vision of the whole school. The question arises in reopening the right to establish publicly funded, commercial private schools with the possibility of dividends, etc. – a leading question. It doesn't matter to the Christian People's Party to join in such a thing, if the Christian People's Party is involved in such a thing? When we go in other fields of service, the Christian People's Party is just concerned that it is important to distinguish between commercial actors and third sector actors – to put it that way – where the commercial closest becomes a threat where the voluntary sector, the third sector, is behind it. One of the core elements of our private school agreement was that there should be an opportunity for example. Christians to establish and run schools. Does not the Christian People's Party see here that this could be a threat to the very type of schools in which the Christian People's Party is so happy if we let go of commercial actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2974	I thank you for the rose, and I think it is incredibly important that we politicians are able to spread our knowledge for the Norwegian school. I don't think this is where the SV and the Christian People's Party are most disagreeable. The representative said in his question that we – that is, the Christian People's Party – are not able to be together with someone who wants only a purely rights-based law with dividend options. There were many who also said that it did not dress us to go into a collaboration with the red-greens, where especially SV was present, to make a law of free school and a private school law. But there the Christian People's Party, with its primary view, was able to help build bridges across a war zone that has been in Norwegian school for many, many years, between a very right triangle and a very SV triangle in the private school area. Now we've got a good law. It will be important for the Christian People's Party to continue to have a law that guarantees legitimacy to different schools. We will also do that if we come in other cooperative constellations after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2984	I believe Eriksen and the Christian People's Party will be used for their bridge builder properties in the future as well. The representative, G.G., asked how to defend an hour shot. But that's not just what surprises me a little bit about the Christian People's Party in this budget position. The Christian People's Party also removes the proposal for an hour of free cultural school for everyone and removes free SFO. But not enough with that, the Christian People's Party also removes the scheme of free fruit and green in school, a scheme that may meet exactly those who have no one to buy fruit and green for themselves. I think that is very bad with the Christian People's Party now talking about the small ones, about social selection, early efforts and a broad knowledge view.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2991	We have chosen in our alternative budget to spend money on what we think is most important for the Norwegian school. What we think has been most important, and we believe that research is also very supportive, is not increased hours in Norwegian school, but it's better teachers, it's better training for teachers. The other issues that the representative addresses here are also covered by the same category. Instead of having fruit and vegetables for everyone – who did not belong to everyone – we believe that it may be better to have a subscription scheme on it. Then to the cultural schools. Now, through my time here at Stortinget and as long as the red-greens have been sitting, we have tried to make suggestions on a proposal to strengthen the cultural school offer. There has been zero response from this government. But when they could finally put it under a full-day school umbrella, it was all of a sudden both right and important. Many major unsolved challenges are posed to the schools because you don't solve the challenges of garbage and other things, as you did with homework. So the Christian People's Party is well within that we support the cultural schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e2998	I suspect the representative Dagrun Eriksen that she is inspired by Paul, who has said that everything is allowed, but not all benefits, when she is opposed to these hours that we have – and that in the rest of the great hall here agrees, with the exception of the Christian People's Party. In that case, both the other parties and the undersigned disagree with both Paul and the representative Dagrun Eriksen. Does the representative know how few hours Norwegian children had actually compared to all other OECD countries? There were few of them in Norwegian and mathematics. And has the representative Dagrun Eriksen thought about how important it is in terms of both reading and billing, that you have regular training and enough filling throughout the school week to get results?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3005	I know at least that Finns had fewer hours than what this government is now proposing, and nevertheless managed to deliver good results. What amazes me in this discussion is that there are so unique signals coming from top-level researchers, including for example. Education 2020, that this is a wrong priority if you really want results in Norwegian school. So I'm a little proud, I, by the Christian People's Party, who dares to take a center position with the Left, and say that there isn't an increase in the number of hours that is the answer. That's the answer if you want a full-time school, but if you want a good school, it's better teachers, competent teachers, who are important, getting other professionals into school and getting a much bigger education perspective in school. It would be by giving a good school. Here we dare to speak all of the Greatness, and Roma, in the middle of it – I think Paul was in there. We're going to keep working because we're not going for the one-sided hour focus in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3014	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3017	On the way up, I heard the Council of State mention the merciful Samaritan. The merciful Samaritan had not only mercy, he had money too. He actually paid for the services he received. It looks a little bit like the Left in this budget. One of the big stakes in our budget, where we redispatch a total of 3.2 billion. kr, is in the field of knowledge. We have a stake in both research and school. I have chosen a proverb: with wisdom the house was built, but with knowledge it was raised. Knowledge, science and respect for knowledge are one of the fundamental driving forces of a society. I believe that good societies can be distinguished from bad societies – societies that have gone well, and societies that have gone badly in history. Those who respect knowledge, those who seek new knowledge and try to find new solutions, are always the societies and cultures that have come furthest. Those who cheat on the fact that they know everything, and who do business with those who actually find something new, are the cultures that have gone badly with it. It also says in one of the sayings: with knowledge, the space was filled with precious, beautiful treasures. That's the taxes we have to build on. That is why knowledge and school are the most important initiatives in the Left's alternative state budget. We now see that Europe's economy is struggling. We see that the European countries are struggling. But when we talk to European heads of state, and at least my sister parties, it's research, knowledge and new environmental technologies they're all talking about. Then it's important that we in Norway use the possibilities we have, use the enormous space we have today, to focus on the things we're going to live on in the future. The left will reintroduce the Research Fund, we want to reintroduce the Gift Enhancing Fund, and we want to strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme. We will introduce tax exemptions for all research institutions that receive government funding. We want to invest more in nutrition research, and resource research – we have invested 220 million. kr to it – and for environmental and climate research. In addition, it is important to bet on the fields we believe and know that we will be good at, such as environmental and climate research. It is important that we also strengthen the Research Council's pot with free funds of 50 million. kr. We allocate more to research equipment and 50 new PhDs. We want to strengthen basic funding in the UH sector, which has to do with study quality, but it also has to do with research. We have added 500 new scholarship positions, 100 new post docs, and start-up and project grants to some university buildings. It is important to build a society on knowledge, that you also have respect for those who are trying to acquire that knowledge. That is why we are introducing eleven months of study support. We index the study support, from 2005. We extend the Loan Fund's sickness benefit scheme to 12 months and add 1000 new student housing annually. In addition, we have put in 2,000 new places of study – not just because many are in line today, but because we need to prepare our educational institutions to accept the wave of knowledge-hungry young people that we know is coming forward. It's not like our universities can be switched off or turned on, they need to be built up over time to provide the competent education that you actually need. So many people have talked about TIMSS, and the new knowledge studies. I just think we should be glad that we're going in the right direction. Then we're going to boast of the teachers that make us go in the right direction. So we're going to figure out how to do it better so that we can move forward in the same direction. That's how we're still a little bit too far down, and we have a great potential to be a lot more proficient. We have many skilled teachers and students in Norwegian school — and we have to be able to get the potential out of it. Then, as politicians, we need to figure out what we can put in the pot to actually get out the potential of those who work in Norwegian school, and of the students we have. Therefore, the Left will bet on several wise, good teachers in Norwegian school. I think that's one of the most important things we can do. We've put off over 400 million. kr to various continuing training measures. We've added 75 million. to recruit more people to continue in the teaching profession and to recruit new groups into school. I think we need to increase the status of the teaching profession, and we need to do that through a lot of skills-related actions. In the old days, when there was a great deal of respect for the teaching profession, respect was linked to teachers having a particular competence. That's the competence and respect we have to build on if we're going to be able to do something about the teaching profession. So I think it's important that teachers get time to be teachers, that they don't have all the other roles in a youth's life. If you're a very good math teacher, it doesn't necessarily mean that you're the best in the world for the 16-year-old who's seagoing, or you're 16-year-old and your mom and dad want you to marry someone you don't want to marry. It's about all the problems and challenges that are in the life of a teenager, and it's about all the challenges where you learn to feel that maybe you haven't gotten enough support to get good. Therefore, we believe that we should have at least 250 new health sisters, curators or psychologists in Norwegian school, who can relieve teachers, so that teachers can have time to be teachers. Then we have good professionals who take care of all the incredibly many challenges associated with being a teenager today. I think it's a lot tougher to be a teenager today than when I was a teenager. There are many more challenges they face now than it was when we were young at some point in the 1980s. At the same time, it is important to strengthen the advisory service. We have done so in our alternative budget. We believe that good advice helps prevent apostasy, and it makes sure that young people get into the tracks and the subjects they really want, when they think about them properly. Then we'll have the lesson aids away from a mandatory scheme from the 1st to the 4th steps to a more flexible scheme. We believe that wise, good teachers around the municipalities know where to put homework, and what type of resource to put in. I think you can then find schemes that reach exactly those we're going to help. I don't think step 1-4 is the best group, at least not everywhere. With such flexibility, the local potential would have been exploited. We also expand the framework for interest compensation in the field of school building maintenance, and spend more money on universal design, so that we can achieve the goal of having universally designed schools within ten years. We also submit pilot projects to those with writing difficulties, and we put in our own cooperation actions between school and child protection. I think it's important that in the future we have a school that cooperates well with the municipal and state institutions, so that we have good networks around the kids – and that the teacher should not have all the roles that you can imagine. I tried, when I was a school office in Oslo, to get all schools to have a child protection employee as their contact person, and one policeman as their contact person. I think I've told you before, but it only took a few weeks to get one policeman dedicated to each school. It took me one year of hard work to get the child protection to do the same. It's such a big shot. I sat on the municipal side, it was a municipal office, and I was going to get a phone number for each school, and that was absolutely impossible. While a state agency, as the police are, had a lot of understanding of having a policeman who belonged to each school, who could swing into a long-term interview and talk a little bit with the students, and walk through the classroom and be present for the teachers. It's actually quite silly grip – and very cheap. It can be very decommissioning and very useful on the day it really needs. In any schoolyard, it could be fun to talk to a policeman and ask him a question — a policeman who knows the youth environment well. My last word language is: ‘A man of wisdom has strength, who has knowledge, is full of power.’ I believe that our alternative state budget shows that we are focusing on the things that are both wisdom and power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3062	The representative, Skei Grande, indicates that the Left has redispatched 2.3 billion. kr in its alternative state budget, and the representative is known to be pleased with research. So are we in the Workers' Party, but we also choose to listen to the research. Research tells us, among other things, that fruit and green make the students learn more. Nevertheless, the Left goes in to remove that scheme and replace it with a, theoretically, maybe, a little cheaper-fruit-on-the-store scheme. The left will reverse hour extensions, abolish the learning aid system and oppose the introduction of free cultural school hours. We agree with the Left that the teacher is important, but in the report that mentions the results of TIMSS 2011, the researchers just underline the fact that it is both the teacher and the general well-being of students and teachers who contribute to learning. The Labour Party is a member of an overall view of learning, because it also has teams of research, so I wonder if the representative Skei Grande can explain to me the relationship between the school policy research we have, and the cuts in the Left's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3071	I am very much because the government spends money on research, also on school research. I think we have a great potential there. But if the government has really done research that shows that children learn more if they eat, I might think it's a little lost. Of course, you learn more if you have a brain that has energy to go on – of course you do. The question is whether it might be a responsibility we should put on the parents. I think we put a lot of responsibility on the parents related to homework and stuff like that. Maybe we should lighten that pressure, but rather say that food packages should actually be able to take care of. What we do with VAT in our alternative state budget is not theoretical. We make it much cheaper to buy the healthy goods that make it possible also for parents with poor advice to make a healthy food package for their children – so that it is not always the unhealthy goods that are the cheapest. I think there was a research that you could have saved yourself, because it's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3080	I do not ignore the fact that the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government would have agreed with the Left in what you could spend extra money for. The left has extra money to spend here, as the Trine Skei Grande sail shows in its post. Our problem is that we do not want to weaken the sick pay system, increase self-employment, reduce the places of action, increase the union quota, etc. That's what makes us less money available. The question is about the Research Fund, and now I'm going to try to keep an open mind. I expect that the reason for taking it back into the fund is that one should lift the research out and away from the annual budget game. As I understand it, you're going to take a certain sum of money, 100 billion. kr, and lift it out. That's a fixed return of $4 billion. kr. But that return of $4 billion. First of all, kr is not price and pay adjusted – as far as I am aware. Secondly: Think about government and growth want to invest more in research a year, than they did the year before? Does that not show that one has to discuss this issue in each budget debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3089	I never think the Left is going to oppose giving more than such a fund can throw off. The point is that research needs long-termity. We have understood that we need long-term transport – we are creating a national transport plan that is long-term. The research also needs that long-termity. Research is not something you can turn on and off. The competence environment is not something you can turn on and off. The long-term nature of research is quite important. That's why the fund arrangement was made. That's why you made goals when it was percentages etc. But now I'm going to be so happy to invite the Minister of Education – if she wants to join us – to visit our Minister of Education in Sweden, who has made a long-term plan even within the message structure. I'm going there in February to see how they've made a long-term in the message structure. She'd like to steal the Swedish model, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3098	I think we have got so far in this round at least one clarification from the opposition, and my impression is that the opposition wants to take from the small – the smallest and the poor – and give to the great and the wise, on which the representative Skei Grande was in. The left has also clearly prioritised the adults over the small ones, the ones who might need it the most. If it was as obvious as the representative replied to Håheim instead, it is extra sad that you choose to remove the fruit and vegetable regime. In addition, hours were cut for the small and free cultural schools. It has crossed my house that there are scientists who have said that it is right to cut these hours and cut out fruit and vegetables. I could imagine hearing who they are. So it is that the Right will have more hours and fewer teachers, while the Christian People's Party and the Left will have the exact opposite. It's very unclear to me how school policy will come with a blue-green government. It's very clear with a red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3110	Now there were very many unparliamentary expressions that went through my head, but these are really just lies. The left has a huge stake in poor children. Saying that we don't bet on poor children in this budget, that's wrong. Then one should have followed in the debate on child poverty that went earlier here. It is the two major stakes that are in the alternative budget of the Left: it is to poor children and it is to knowledge. You can't turn it any other way. I also didn't say that it was research that meant cutting fruit and vegetables. I said it's obvious that you need food. That's why we make sure poor families get better advice, that's why we make sure that VAT on fruit and vegetables is actually lower so that families can buy it – not just get it distributed by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3117	The chord shift has been completed. The president promises to go back to the record to see if there really was something going through without it going.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3122	I sat and thought that here there were many good posts. It's actually how I think all parties have good points and good speeches. That's very good, because we don't have to make more conflicts about knowledge, education and research than it's on the basis of. The broad consensus within the Committee on some important issues of knowledge and higher education is very important and correct. The only thing I'm sorry for is that despite my many years at Sunday school, I've now run out of Bible quotations. [[muttering in the hall]] We have given priority to research high in our government, and a real growth of 32 pst. 2005 is a clear commitment. There is also a very clear commitment when we have provided new places of study that will, when the full effect is in place, give about. 23,000 new places of study in 2017. It has been very important that we have built 1,000 new student homes and doubled in relation to the ambitions of the previous government, because we know that the housing situation for students, both in terms of access and price, is a challenge and important for equal rights to education. We have great needs in infrastructure and building mass in higher education. I am very pleased that we are now working on the Urbyggen on Ås. If the representative Tord Lien knew how precarious the situation is with regard to the Veterinary College in terms of infection and animal welfare, he would immediately withdraw his proposal to postpone the construction of the new University of Ås. It is absolutely vital that we have an international perspective when we are engaged in research and higher education. It's a very important piece to ensure quality, and we have to keep having the drive to move forward. Therefore, I believe that it is a major challenge for us to raise the proportion of Norwegian researchers who draw funding from the EU programme. That's just 8 pst. by Norwegian researchers who do, and we have a much greater potential for that. I also believe that we should take the discussion on how to sharpen our efforts more in research, so that we can get better quality environments in several or selected areas. I see there is a small discussion about whether Norwegian students choose higher education in cabin and torment and just according to the principle of pleasure. But Norwegian students are actually very sensible students, and they are very much looking for the areas where we know we're going to need skills in the future. That's why we have 55 pst. increase in engineering and civil engineering training from 2005, 50 pst. several applicants for teacher training from 2008 and 18 pst. increase in pre-school teacher training only last year. This means that Norwegian students, Norwegian youth, are very aware of what society needs, and are largely in control of their wishes against it. So stop talking about Norwegian students just floating around and not thinking about what society needs. Besides, we're going to be very careful to make sure that we know exactly what society needs in 20, 30, 40 or 50 years, so I think we have a good order of it. We are among the countries that spend most on research per capita in government-funded research, but we have a significant challenge in business research, which must primarily mean that industry itself must take responsibility for thinking ahead and investing. School Norway has been greatly encouraged by the results that have now been presented in TIMSS and PIRLS. Norwegian 4th-classes are world champions in progress in mathematics. Our 4th classifications are one year younger than the 4th grade in the rest of the Nordic region, so the main survey is a comparison between Norwegian nine-year-olds and Finnish, Danish, Swedish and many other countries' teenagers. That's why you also have a sample of 5 classes, i.e. Norwegian teenagers, who can better say something about how we do it in relation to other countries. They show that Norwegian teenagers have better math skills than the other Nordic countries, including Finland. It also shows that while Finland’s trend in mathematics is falling, ours is clearly going up, and Sweden is facing major challenges in school policy, because their performance continues downwards — it also showed PISA. This shows that we have raised especially the weakest readers very much. I think it's wonderful when the opposition has to take some real swirling pipes and start the day with some sort of favorite review of how you can really accuse SV of accepting the knowledge school, so to speak, to see that the results are very good, very encouraging. Thus, one must quickly start the competition for who has the most honor for it – a wonderful start to the day. What makes me the most happy is that those who do the job out there see that we're on the right track now, because we still have some challenges. I think we have some challenges in the middle, because our improvements are better when we look at steps 4 and 5 than at steps 8. We also have some challenges with regard to the high-performance students, because we certainly have a greater potential among some of the high-performance students than what we get. The discussion about who has honor and not honor, we can certainly take up and down in mind, and I am absolutely sure that the election campaign will be about it as well. I am concerned about the following: we have taken some very important and significant steps in the Knowledge promise, and the most important thing is that in School-Norway we now focus differently: from being engaged in activities and what to do, to focusing on learning outcomes and learning. The second is that the concentration on basic skills has had an impact – crucially important. The third is the competence of teachers to do that job, and how important it has been to have a comprehensive focus on continuing education and training. The fourth is that we've been busy giving School-Norway tools and all the way adjusting the knowledge promise about how we back up, for example. screening tests in 1st and 2nd stage reading, introduced in 2009, at 3rd stage in 2010 and in numerical understanding at 2nd stage in 2009. These are also instruments and tools that have been important to use. There are many school reforms that School-Norway has never seen the spin of. They've lived their own lives in the Ministry of Knowledge and in the Storingssalen, and then you're going to send these good wishes out to School-Norway, and then it's going to be like that. But it doesn't. And many teachers have probably thought that they can sit there inside Oslo and keep up with what they're doing, but the teachers have turned the pile and kept doing what they've done. Therefore, the greatest art the Stortinget can do is not to adopt a big message and a reform. The most important thing is to implement and have a sense of implementation, so that that reform is noticed in the last student at the extreme and by an ardent teacher with a new professional fill. Therefore, seven-and-a-half years of implementation of the Knowledge Lift, with the Red-Green and SV State Councils at its head, is crucial for our success. Implementation is my headline on all the other things we're also doing in terms of knowledge. The new GIV is a very concrete cooperation project for more students to undertake higher education. I'd like to get back to some of the research that we're currently doing in the field of parts of this project. Because it's important that we get knowledge along the way so that we can adjust some of what we're doing. That's exactly what we're doing when we're doing professionally. We work together on a social contract between the parties so that we get more apprenticeships, and we ensure that we have good contact with the different professions when we are going to make a new growth report summarising the Knowledge promise, not least where we look at vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3153	The National Audit Office just presented a report that describes a partly gloomy situation of the building stock in the university and higher education sectors. One of these buildings is the Veterinary College, which is located in the Adamstuen in Oslo. I have never said that it should not be upgraded, but I have said that it can be upgraded in the Adams room at a completely different price than that a moving 30 km away is actually going to result from costs. I could mention the museum building in Bergen, which is not going to be opened to the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, but I'm going to talk about the technology building of the University of Southern Trøndelag, the most efficient college in Norway. It is now going to be subject to short-term rental contracts, which cost a lot of money, and a relatively much more expensive project. Is the Council satisfied with the situation, and does she think it is good use of tax money to spend $10 million on rent?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3160	The technology building at the University of Southern Trøndelag is highly priority, and I'm going to stand on until that building is about to reach the sky. They deserve a technology building, and it's an important project. But as Lien's representative says, there are many challenges to building mass in the university and higher education sectors. Here's just one thing to do, and that's to keep the pressure up and convince everyone you need, so you get the appropriations that are needed to realize such an important building.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3165	I note that the Council of State has learned from its predecessor. I thought it was this council that was responsible for the budget we are discussing today. To blame Sigbjørn Johnsen thought I was our role, but that's fine now. Another thing that has emerged during both the budgetary process and today is that support for the first year of the bachelor’s study has now been introduced in very many countries, but not in the United States. I suspect that is ideologically conditional, I must say. But then you say that's what you're going to evaluate and figure out for next year. What is the assessment and assessment of the next year that is not known today as regards the possibility of introducing support for the first year of the bachelor's study in the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3172	First of all, there are 60 institutions in the United States that are supported, and they are those with the highest quality, which are the most difficult to come up with. Then the discussion is, of course, a budgetary priority and, on the one hand, a discussion of what is at the heart of this, namely that we believe that the first year of a four-year Bachelor's degree at many institutions in the United States corresponds to a higher level in Norway. This may be a good argument, but it does not solve the problem that many Norwegian students have when they do not get that student loan. So we have to, what do you say, find a pragmatic solution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3177	The TIMSS survey shows that we have a way to go, and that we, among other things, at the level of youth, significant challenges remain. The new GIV has just been evaluated, and I wonder if the council didn't take a little bit of Möller's Tran when she was going to comment on it, and almost bombastically determined how successful the New GIV had been. If you go behind the numbers, you see that 10 pst. of the 10 pst. The weakest, i.e. the 1-students, have been able to improve in Norwegian – one cannot see very clear results in mathematics, and so they have joined a good many more students who have practically no change in their performance. I think it's agreed that both the ones and the two are a very weak basis for moving on and doing high school. So my question to the Council of State now is, are you willing to reconsider the timing of putting in the New GIV, to give these students a real chance to build better knowledge and get on with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3182	The representative Aspaker has misunderstood what this research shows. We have four different research environments that follow New GIV and provide us with in-flight reporting, precisely because we should have the opportunity to adjust the scheme. The NIFU's report shows that approx. 40 pst. of those offered the New GIV today, with grades from 3 up, while the target group for the New GIV is the 10 pst. lowest performance. This means that the design and professional content are designed to raise those who really have professional challenges. That's why the most important thing we can now extract from this very interesting report is that we encourage the municipalities not to pick students who have one, what to say, middle-class, because they can get too small challenges through New GIV. That's exactly what's our dilemma when we're dealing with level differentiation, which we're doing in New GIV. The experience from New GIV is now taking us along as we are going to change the working methods throughout high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3187	I'll ask the question in a different way. This autumn the SSB has submitted a report demonstrating that there is a clear link between the results obtained by the students on national tests in 8th grade and very weak and low scores in 10th grade. Ergo we know in 8th grade what kind of students need help. Then I ask again, is it not that we should now learn from the research and evaluation and put in the help at the right time? If we're serious about early efforts, we have to put in the help when we find out what kind of students need help, and don't leave them to themselves through large parts of high school, then put in a little fire drill after Christmas in the 10th grade and hope that we'll save them with grades so that they get through high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3193	There are many things we have to make sure to do quickly. What we have to do in the first place quickly is not to offer new GIV to students who really have the potential to perform much higher. They get too little professional challenges. Point 2: I now have a comprehensive scheme to change the workings of the entire youth, and that's precisely because we want to go through the experience with New GI, V so that students can meet on the first day, 8th grade. We are now testing 22 municipalities this year, and then we are going to start with a clear training of all teachers – at school level, in classroom management, reading, writing and billing – because we know that the training scheme we have offered through the New GIV is getting very positive feedback. Yes, it's some of what really gets positive feedback, including from teachers and students. The New GIV score as it is now is not an intensive course just to raise the grades, it is to get up the motivation for low-performance students, so that they can complete high-level education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3198	There's a lot of things that would have been exciting to ask the Council of State, but because I have so few written questions before Christmas, I want to ask for a look-up in the evening post today, about the recognition of education. I spoke in my speech about having respect for knowledge, but there is not always Norwegian authorities who respect the knowledge that people bring with them from other countries and from Norway. It is incredibly wasted, there are many opportunities in many who come here with education from other countries, education that they spend year after year — and a lot of money — to get approved. That's wasting a lot of resources. So I wonder if the Council of State has seen that look, and if she's seen all the times we've decided in this room – speaking of what the Council of State said before – that we're going to do something about this. But we can't do anything about it. Is the Council of State concerned about all the competences that disappear in bureaucracy and the lack of recognition of education for people from other countries, with other CVs?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3203	I immediately saw, when I read that matter, that this is something I should follow up. SOMETHING is one of the bodies that receive increased appropriations under this budget, but it is a major challenge to keep capacity up, and this is one of the issues. to have the capacity to recognise foreign education. We need to get this straight, because there are individuals who are not told what they need in order to get an approved education in Norway, but we also have to assume that we are living in an increasingly internationalised society, and there are many now who can throw their eyes on Norway because there are poor prospects in their own labour markets. If we don't manage to decorate ourselves in such a way that their competence is welcome with us, and we can benefit from it, we've behaved badly, simply. So I'll follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3208	The councils of states should not be so anxious about who is to be honored, for the Master himself says in the Gospel after John: "If I honor myself, my honor is not worth anything." In the proverbs, we can read: "A lovely woman wins honor, the diligent win riches." So here is the council of state much she can get in terms of wealth in the future. We have not disagreed with the government's designation of funds for teachers. We think that's the way to move forward, and also to strengthen schools with weak results. However, we have chosen to pass on a criticism of some of the device on this. One is that you just take the results for a year, so that if a school had good results in previous years, that is, last year, they would still get a teacher this year. The second criticism is that school owners, i.e. the municipality, have been overrun. Does the Council of State see that by engaging in dialogue with the school owner about where the real needs are, perhaps even better could be done with the designation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3215	This is primarily a testing scheme to gain experience of what increasing teacher density will mean. There we have proposed a resource standard at the hearing. The most offensive thing in that proposal, which is 20 students in the youth class per teacher on average, but at school level, would have resulted in fewer than 700 new teachers, but very many and very small job breaks. We don't think anyone knew that. That is why we have now tried to see how we can gain experience over a four-year period. Then we have selected those that were initially below the average of primary school credits. That means, from before, it's 70 pst. of secondary schools with fewer than 20 average pupils per teacher. Now we take 15 pst. Of the 30 remaining – half of them – and then we have to gain experience with what teachers want the most, namely more time to follow up the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3220	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3223	In Ezekiel it says: "I will take great vengeance on them, and will chastise them in my anger, and they shall know that I am the Lord, when I execute my vengeance on them." I don't know if the results of the school studies on Tuesday are perceived as discipline in anger, but it's at least a small revenge on all the parties that have claimed that this government is pursuing a poor and low offensive school policy. And if Kristin Halvorsen is not concerned with giving himself credit, at least I will give Christin Halvorsen some of the credit for going well in School Norway. But of course it's the teachers, the schools and the students who do the heaviest job. It's a pleasure that things are going in the right direction. We saw it on the PISA results, and now we also see in the PIRLS that the fourth grade reads better, like the 15-year-olds. TimSS shows that we're doing better in math and science. It's happy for the future. And Norwegian fifth-graders are now also better in math than peers in Finland, so we might have, unlike Aspaker said, learned something from them and do something they can't do. It's a pleasure to take a stand. I'm glad the gap is getting smaller. But I think there could have been something more joy from the right-hand side over this. Then I would say, "As the mother comforts her son, so will I comfort you" – or so I might comfort the Right. Because it has to be possible now to take on the fact that this government is in a way not able to do it. I think it's about how we work with the school. We've been betting on kindergartens. There you get language and social skills. We have ‘Temporary effort’ in school, we have several hours in Norwegian, math and English, 600 new teachers for high school and a high school report that ensures a more practical way of working. By talking about the school and the teaching profession, we've also received an increased search for the teacher school, which gives us more and better teacher students. In addition, we have focused on trying to cooperate with the actors in school. We've spent time trying to calm down, we've shown our school trust, and we've shown our teachers confidence. The last time they sat in this department, they spent a lot of time arguing with teachers and with students and spent most of the time trying to privatize. I agree with Hagen: we can have two thoughts in our head at once. We could also have more. I think one of the important things about the government's knowledge policy is that we work all along the line. Some are long-term measures, others are short-term measures, which are designed to correct errors and shortcomings now. So we're going to enable more students to acquire more knowledge. It is insanely important to ensure that fewer of tomorrow's students fall out of high school. I mentioned initially in the lines here that I am concerned about what will happen if the Right takes over with the municipal structure they have. Elisabeth Aspaker thinks it is bad in many municipalities. The answer from the Right is to make it even worse in 80 pst. by them. I think that's a bad answer. I am concerned about a large-scale privatisation, which we know can come with the Right and the Advance Party. If we look at Sweden, this has led to increased segregation in school. This has led to a character inflation. When Swedish schools fail to do international tests, they also get good grades at home in Sweden, because the main sales response for Swedish schools and the way to attract students is just a good quality. When Tord Lien also wants to commercialise these private schools, the picture becomes complete. I think it's drawing a picture of an Education Norway where again structure, ideology and privatisation are going to be more important than content, results and learning for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3250	This is the last budget in this magnificence period, and thus the last opportunity for the government to honour the promises of Soria Moria II. They promised, among other things: to increase the number of performances and slide shows in the Norwegian Church. In a joint opinion, the Committee: ‘The Norwegian Church as a nationwide open church is dependent on a pastoral service that is present in all communities’. But there won't be any more priests and deacons of beautiful words. It takes money to fulfill the promises of several positions in the Church. The reality is that 14 performances are cut during this year and next year. It's also not created a single slide set. However, the government parties have the opportunity to rectify this in the context of the revised budget. The Church relies on up-to-date ICT solutions for efficient operation. There are finally electronic church records in place, and most of us thought that this would mean an improvement in efficiency. But the system Church must use, is old and has been to more frustration than joy, it is reported. The party of progress will give the Church security, freedom and power of action to remain an open and active people's church. We will therefore strengthen the ministry by 30 million. kr. We've also granted 20 million. kr to meet the Church's ICT needs and for electronic church records. The Seaman's Church is a great resource for the Nordics abroad. Among other things, the Maritime Church in Spain, through the Family Guide, does a formidable job for children in an acute crisis. We want the important offer to continue and grant 1.5 million. NOK to this. In an increasingly multicultural society with many different religious communities, it is important that individuals have a good knowledge of their own faith and identity. Training in our Christian faith and values is important to maintain a committed church of the people. In the Gospel of Matthew 19,14, it says: "Then Jesus said, Leave the little children alone, and do not prevent them from coming to me! For the kingdom of heaven belong such as them.» For more children and young people to take part in religious training, the Progress Party increases the entry by 16 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. The church buildings are of the most important and oldest cultural buildings we have. Still we can read about what a bad constitution the churches are in. For example, the Church of Awake! stands and falls due. A leaky roof makes moisture dry on the unique church from the 1600s. The reports of the National Audit Office and the KA show that our church cultural history is about to rot. This will not be the subject of the Progress Party. In the Gospel according to John 14,2, it is said: «In my father's house there are many rooms. Wasn't that so, had I then said to you that I am going and will make it possible somewhere for you?" For there to be still many rooms in God’s house, the Advancement Party allocates 100 million. for the upgrading and fire protection of churches. In addition, we restore interest-free loans to church buildings. The dissemination of history is important, not least in times like these, as anti-Semitism and other racism are becoming more and more widespread. The rise in extreme political and religious movements is increasing, and then it is vital for democracy to keep the knowledge of World War II alive. The Progress Party therefore allocates more money to both the Narvik Centre and the Foundation Archivet. These are professional environments that do an important job in each of their areas of war history. The Progress Party shall be charged to the budget for education and research. Lifelong learning is becoming more and more important, as many are going to change jobs much more often than what has been common to now. This means that we need to have well-developed adult education, with transparent and flexible offers adapted to the labour market. Today, adult education is fragmented and not transparent. The Progress Party proposes to allocate 10 million. kr to a common national strategy, which will provide flexibility and a comprehensive adult learning policy in all education systems. I must be allowed to provide an explanation. The Committee was very concerned that the comments on the online schools, page 65, second column at the very bottom, should read ‘Strengthen online schools’, etc. In the case of an incubator, this has not been corrected, so that it still says the ‘students’, which means that it has to read ‘the online schools’. It is quite important for the Committee to stress. Online schools have a lot of experience reaching adults across the country, and in many cases online students achieve equally good, and often better, results than regular students. Online education has a great untapped potential, which needs to be used far more in all levels of education. Several municipalities have established online continuing training for their teachers. The results from this are good, and the teachers, who do not travel away for several weeks, are very satisfied. An extra plus is that the municipality can afford to allow far more people to participate in the education. The government pays attention to continuing training for teachers and should listen to what is said in Job 34,16: "If you have understanding, hear this! Listen to what I say!’ I am counting on this to be corrected, so that online continuing training of teachers is used in the government's efforts. The studies TIMSS and PIRLS show that the weakest students are doing better in both reading, mathematics and science, and of course we are happy about that. These results show the same trend as in the government's New GIV investment. But it also turns out that only the weakest students achieve better grades. Those who are grade 3 and above are getting worse counting than those who are in the ordinary school. The propulsion party is skeptical of the shippertak method that New GIV represents. It needs to be put in place much earlier in the educational cycle, as well as the continuous feedback and repetition being the best results for the students. That is why we believe that this needs to be incorporated and made a routine. Good routines and emphasis on basic subjects, not least real subjects, must be put in place. We must remember that all Norway’s wealth is based on real science. Oil, process industry, breeding -- all this is impossible without skilled realists. It is therefore necessary to invest more strongly in real science at all levels of school. We're going to enjoy ourselves with teachers and students over progress, but there's a lot to do before we reach the level we're going to be at in the real world. The Progress Party believes that the best students need to be given tasks to meet their professional level, so that they are challenged to become even better. Norway needs far more competent professionals, especially nurses and engineers. The Progress Party has both financed and increased the number of study places for engineers and nurses in its budget. The Advance Party has long seen the engineering potential of many skilled workers, and has therefore repeatedly asked for the Y-way to be made searchable and more predictable, in line with other studies. We have now heard about this at the Council of State, and we are very pleased about that with the employment and educational institutions. We have great expectations that this will be applied as early as spring. The Progress Party agrees with Solomon’s 8,11 proverb, which states: "For wisdom is better than pearls, of all treasures there is none like her." It is then necessary to facilitate the widest possible participation in wisdom. The budget of the Progress Party provides security, freedom and action both for the education sector and for the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3327	We will deal with one of the most important parts of the budget for next year in this debate. Right there are probably more committees and fractions that will claim, but I'm going to stand on mine. The budget for education and research is particularly important, because it is the very foundation of an ever-growing society, a society that has and will continue to have an international central position by being able to educate the best minds. Knowledge and competence are the very basis for innovation and innovation. It fits well with Right's new ideas and better solutions. In 2010, the Government’s Higher Education Action Space Committee delivered its report, highlighting a reduced scope for action in the sector. This promised the then state council Tora Aasland to take seriously, and she promised close dialogue with the sector. None of the feedback from the educational institutions suggests that this has been followed up. Not correcting the reduced space for action and increasing the basic funding of universities and colleges is an unforgivable emergency of the current government. For seven years they have run the department, held many celebrations and promised many and many, but little has happened. A common desire from the Stortinget to enhance the quality of education has not been followed up. The space for action needs to be remedied and educational institutions need to have funding to secure both the basic investments and to reward them for the work they have done. Publication credits are part of the results-based funding for universities. More universities than before are now part of the scheme, and the researchers publish more, but all are rewarded from a closed bag. Several of them experienced last year that increased activity gave less payment. It's not very inspiring! Result-based financial instruments must be a real carrot. On the right, we will strengthen basic funding, we will use additional funds to raise the best levels of competence, and we will have a proper review of the results-based funding, so that it works as it should: it will inspire to higher quality, and it will reward work done well. The government boasts of creating a number of new study places. They're right to continue the studies they've started, and they'll have to boast about that. On the other hand, it will not be correct when this brilliance is used in response to the challenge of the major youth schools to start their education in the coming years. Then there is the number of places for first-year students that apply. That's the challenge, and it has to be solved. There are many young people who want to take higher education, and we need a lot of skilled workers for many professions. We have too few teachers, engineers and health workers with relevant and good education. It's a serious challenge. The right therefore calls for the government's plan to rectify this. We are calling for a budget with concrete and clear action to ensure the most important competence – a budget that gives clear signals and predictability, a budget that is geared towards building skills, increasing competitiveness and value creation. It has struck me that the fights of right and wrong today and the same struggles all the way back to Jesus' time are quite the same. "And when a blind man leads a blind man, both fall into the ditch," was his answer to criticism from the scribes. I'm not here to suggest who leads who, or make claims about blind political opponents – it would be to go too far – but to us it seems that the Council of State is now in its lack of plan and clear orders is dangerous near the edge of the ditch. The right will be clear in the order for the sector, and we will be clear that Norway will have world-class university environments. It governs our efforts in this field. Two groups are particularly badly affected by the policy pursued by the government in the budget. The new universities also do not receive the intended assistance in this budget through the introduction of recruitment positions. The lack of recruitment positions will pose major challenges, not just for the new universities, but for the whole sector. This has been clearly stated and warned by the University and Higher Education Council, and the Right has therefore committed 50 million. to this end, in its alternative budget. The second group of poor graduates is students at private colleges, which come out economically worse after completion of studies, both through the fact that these higher education institutions do not receive grants in accordance with the infrastructure they need to have in place and that the study funding does not help to offset the difference in the costs that this entails for these students.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3348	This week came the TIMSS survey, which showed progress since the last one. It's positive. We have observed the Right and Government wars about who has the credit for these results, but unfortunately Norway still has too few students in the highest-performance group. An average school that does not have the ability to develop the potential of several highly skilled students is little to rejoice about. I'm more happy for the day when the Progress Party presents its results, with a world-class school. To achieve this, we need to look at measures to strengthen basic education. We will never be able to compete or claim in international competition if we have such major shortcomings in basic skills as what we see today. There are very many individual measures that you can and should do to strengthen initial training. The Holy Trinity of the Progress Party is security, freedom and action. If we get these in place, we'll also get a much better school. The purpose of school education can be found in Solomon’s Proverbs chapter 1, verse 4, namely, ‘to give ignorance and young knowledge and consideration’. This basic principle is important to ensure that parents are safe. Parents and superiors deserve to be sure that their children are given the opportunity and help to acquire the knowledge that is actually required to function in society in the future. The most important factor in good teaching is teachers. As it is written in John 13,15: "For I have given you an example, that you may also do as I have done for you." This aspect is important, the issue of how important teachers are as role models for our children, for our students, and for motivation and willingness to learn in school. They are role models and should stimulate learning. Unfortunately, we have a government that does not give priority to increasing the level of knowledge and competence of today's teachers. The emphasis on continuing and continuing training is far too poor and meets very close to the need we see. Indeed, there is no certainty for parents when the ‘power action’ is taken by the government in order to increase the number of high school teachers, with a distribution that all in the school sector say is random — and in several cases faults — out. Students also deserve security — school life security, security to go to a school where they are not subjected to violence and harassment. There is an astonishing amount of effort on the part of the government to prevent violence at school. Freedom is another basic value for us, freedom for superiors and for students to choose which school they want to go to, through free school choices. It is amazing how the government does not even want to decide or participate in the discussion on the introduction of free school choice. We live in a society where freedom of choice is a matter of course in many areas – everything from power supply, telecommunications, banks and hospitals to other things. But school, the workplace of our children, where the basis for their entire future is laid, is not allowed to choose. Also, students deserve greater freedom, freedom to decide for themselves about larger parts of their own schooling. Take, for example: Side-by-side education: we are in a situation where reading and writing skills are lacking, and how nearly one fifth of boys have great knowledge gaps. In Paul’s other letters to the Corinthians, he says well: ‘For there is nothing else in what we write but what you can read and understand. I hope you can fully understand...» He thus clarifies the importance of good reading and writing skills, both in order to express himself and in order to have an understanding of the written word. Early efforts in this area are crucial, while ensuring that students are given the opportunity to concentrate on learning one writing language well and not two mediocre. Another freedom is to choose several of the subjects themselves. The government has introduced electoral science in high school, which we in the Progress Party believe is good. But this only applies to the 8th and 9th stages, not the 10th, where we see that the biggest motivational challenges lie. The Progress Party is a party with action, action to both take decisions and implement them, actions we know will work for better learning. Firstly, we have a challenge with counseling in high school. Tradition faith is still ‘theorists’ advised students to choose study specialisation, while with less good results in typical theory disciplines they are recommended to choose a profession. This is all but recognising the importance of the professions. It gives the impression that professional education is less theoretically demanding, but that is not what it is about! It's about the level of abstraction in the theory it's taught is lower, but it doesn't require less cognitive capacity. The students are thus referred to a day-to-day school and a school course that does not correspond to reality. Several people experience that the obstacle is too large, and thus fall away. At the same time, there are too few apprenticeships. The Party of Advancement has power of action. We are therefore committed to implementing measures to increase the number of apprenticeships in society. Firstly, we remove the employer’s fee for apprentices, so that companies get financial incentives to take them in. Secondly, we need to ensure that the apprenticeship allowance is increased so that the actual costs of apprentices are met. Then we have to look at the possibility of e.g. start-up grants to enterprises wishing to be converted into apprenticeships. An observation that may be as fascinating as the sight of a burning bush is the government’s impressive ability to negotiate between measures all of which are said to be too. I am thinking not only of the eleven-month study aid, but also of the measure of increased physical activity in school. It has not been long since we discussed the proposals of the Progress Party on physical activity. In the debate, all the government parties supported how good the proposal was, and how important it was to have it implemented, but of course they voted against it. The reason we got was that the measure would cost 5.3 billion. kr. On Friday we received an answer in the Advance Party to our written question about the background for this calculation. The result we got was not surprising. It showed that the numerical basis and assumptions for the calculation for which we were presented were unrealistic and as distant from reality as possible. The whole basis for the calculation they had done was wrong. As a result, the figures for the cost of this proposal were also wrong. I hope people see that the attempt at the bow jump over our proposal ended with a total platitude, and that denial of truth like what we see in Matthew 26,34, does not get better even if it is presented three times. The tripartite Trinity is security, freedom and action, three things that we have to make sure that we get implemented in school every day in order to get a better school. We are dedicated to creating a good school for everyone — a good school for the weakest students, a good school for the average successful students and a good school to raise the strongest students. Unfortunately, we are disappointed that these objectives will not be achieved with the submitted budget. One can, of course, only ask the higher powers that also the government parties see these shortcomings and want to re-prioritize. And that's precisely in these Christmas times miracles can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3393	Here there will be no Bible quotations, because research policy is exciting enough as it is [[muttering in the hall]] Research policy therefore becomes a demanding exercise. Unlike many other policies, governance is not the most important issue. It's more about facilitating, stimulating and giving freedom. Much of Høre's criticism of the government's red-green research policy lies just here. The government has too many targets to reach, there will be too much detail control and designation. And the results should preferably be reported and the targets achieved before the next elections. We get what we can call an instrumental research policy. In the same way as the government's instrumental cultural policy, sectoral policy and the sector themselves are often reduced to tools to achieve other and wider policy objectives, whether in the field of district policy, cohesion of social differences or gender equality. Or as the Minister of Knowledge requested at the Research Association Conference in November: ‘more frontier research’. I must say that the Minister of Knowledge must be very clear-sighted if she believes it is possible to know in advance which research or projects are going to be borderlined. I hope the government doesn't bet on making something as self-contradictory as a plan for more frontier research. But a new research report is coming soon, and we are looking forward to it in the Right. Then we can take the more general debate on research and knowledge policy that I so far touched on at the beginning of my speech. I am therefore now going to take into account the concrete actions Right are addressed in the 2013 budget, and the challenges we are dealing with in this more short-term perspective. We are in a situation where Norway has a solid economy, high employment and high incomes based largely on the oil and gas sector. Unlike what many believe, the Norwegian oil adventure is not just about a commodity, but also a lot about knowledge and technology. The challenge for Norway is that many other parts of business are not as knowledge-intensive and innovative as is needed to compete internationally from the high-cost country of Norway. As the oil and gas adventure approaches the end, therefore, we must in the meantime have invested in research, development and innovation in a wide range of industries in order to find what we are going to live on after the oil, as it is called. And we have to make sure that peak technologies from oil and gas extraction can be used in other areas as well. We know that Norway invests less than, for example, our neighbouring countries in research and development. And we know that it's primarily in business this big difference exists. Swedish enterprises use e.g. Almost the fourfold of research as a percentage of GDP compared to Norwegian enterprises. Therefore, the Right is heavily in its alternative budget to support the commercialisation of research results, to improve the TaxFUNN and to strengthen the User-driven Innovation Arena to stimulate more research in business. I know from several debates here in Stortinget that the government agrees that Norway's challenge in the field of research is that there is too little research in the business community. Marianne Aasen said the same in his post earlier today. Then it's strange that the government doesn't take stronger action to improve the situation. But the Right will more. We need to equip Norway as a knowledge nation. We have to get more involved in quality than in quantity. We must be so uncompromising about quality, that we do not allow other goals like those I mentioned earlier, and others, to get in the way of this. And we have to become more international. District Championships and Norway Championships are not interesting in the research world. In the world of research, it is best in the world that counts. Norway has opportunities to invest more strongly in its best people, environments and institutions. Therefore, in the 2013 budget, the Right has invested in funding for both world-leading research environments, general incentives for international research cooperation and investment in a so-called Global Center of Expertise. Finally, research is being undertaken in Norway, particularly in the form of public funds from the State budget. But since we know that the recruitment of new talents for research is so important, it becomes not only strange, but almost mysterious that the government doesn't do anything in this area in 2013, nor did anything in 2012, 2011 or 2010. Four years without any new fellows or postdoctoral positions in the university and higher education sectors funded by the state budget are incredibly little ambitious. The right has had this in each of the last years that I mentioned, with a total of 200 million. kr over 4 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3410	It's probably a historic day today, because rarely has the Bible been used so often in this room to illustrate its own policy, and it's a joy to a minister of the Church. But also last Friday was a historic day. Then Stein Reinertsen was added as a new bishop in Agder and Telemark Diocese. It was the first time since the Reformation that a new bishop in the Norwegian Church was not appointed by either the King himself or the King of the Council of State. The fact that the responsibility for the addition of bishops and prosthetics has now been transferred from the church council to the church councils is a direct consequence of the broad church settlement that all the political parties on the Stortinget were united in 2008. The agreement was the basis for the major changes to the Basic Law adopted here in the main hall in May this year. The constitutional changes were the result of a long historical process, in which more and more tasks and responsibilities have been transferred from the state and the municipality to the Church's own bodies. The amendments to the Constitution that have now been implemented have provided a new basis for further independence of the Norwegian Church. Although something's changed, much is still the same. This includes, inter alia: the continuation of the current financing system for the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-seeking communities. The State will still be responsible for the Church's legal, organisational and economic framework that can underpin and further develop the Norwegian Church as a people's church. The future of the Church rests largely on how it is able to maintain contact with children and young people. Through the faith training reform, new generations have now been set up to gain knowledge of their own faith and to experience membership of the Church. The Committee configuration shows that this reform continues to be widespread in Stortinget. With an increase of 31 million in the year's budget. SEK 234 million has been allocated to the training reform. kr. This means that a number of new congregations are now joining in the reform, and that we are constantly approaching the goal that this important offer can be put in place in all the congregations of the country. The Church means a lot to our communities and too many people. It gathers us together in joy and sorrow, by marking celebrations and family events, and it helps and supports people in crisis. Therefore, it is also an important societal task to ensure that the Norwegian Church’s churches have good framework conditions. Under our government there has been a significant increase in efforts to maintain and maintain church buildings. While total expenditure on the maintenance and rehabilitation of church buildings in 2005 amounted to 285 million. On a country-by-country basis, the municipalities and the church councils from 2008 up to today have used an average of about 10 %. 700 million. kr annually for the same purpose. In other words, the annual effort in this area is far more than doubled under this government, and a large number of churches have been put in place. In addition to the increase in the appropriations for the reform of religious education and the strengthening of the local church economy, several measures have been implemented under our government which will have a major impact on the Church's further development. We have – in line with the church settlement’s premises – implemented the democratic reform in the Norwegian Church. We will also continue to stick to the goal of the reform, which is to engage and include the breadth of church members in the further development of the Church. Appropriations for the provision of services have increased in the last decade as a result of new employment arrangements. The new service arrangements have facilitated more cooperation and improved the distribution of services between the pastors, while at the same time providing better regulated working time and leisure time for the pastors. This has been a necessary effort to renew and adapt the services to the demands of today’s society. I have noticed that the committee position points to several areas that require increased efforts within church administration. The Committee shall display, inter alia: the importance of the use of modern technology by the Church and the strengthening of its presence on the Internet. I share this commitment with the Committee and will work with the Church to find solutions to realise several of the common IT strategies that the churches and the Norwegian Church have. We must then be clear about the commitments that the Joint Councils also have in order to contribute to such a joint solution. Finally, I must disappoint the representative of Thorsen, who said that this was the last budget that this government presented. We intend to provide a government budget for next year and for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3436	I think we'll leave the last one. The Soria Moria Declaration II states that the government will increase the number of performance and slide performances. At the latest today, I read in the paper that More Diocese must cut off four performances in order to keep its budget. With the exception of an allocation of 5 million. For the past four years, the pension budget has barely covered the increase in earnings. In other words, the government has subsidized the salary budget to the priests. There will only be fewer benefits if the budget is to be respected, and that should be the case. The question is then: does the Council of State believe that the promise to increase the number of performances and slide shows has been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3445	We have had a significant increase in the allocation to the Norwegian Church. From 2005 until now, appropriations have increased by 47 pst. When we enter the central official register of the State, the number of annual works has increased from 1,345 to 1,385 in terms of performance. There has been an increase, but — as in many areas — there is also a need to focus on the workload in the Norwegian Church. It is important that we have good working conditions for those who work, but when we look at that burden, it is also important to see what services the performance of the services is. In the same period, there have been almost 1,600 fewer marriages and over 3,000 fewer infant baptisms. This means that one has to see the staffing of the Norwegian Church in connection with the tasks to be performed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3450	I just want to stress that approx. 80 of the posts to which the Council of State refers are financed by non-States. I understand that we're not going to get on with this problem here. Reports show that several of the country's churches lack the necessary fire safety and are about to rot. Our churches are some of the most important cultural memories we have, and a loss of these is a loss of an important part of our common history. In Soria Moria II, the government says that important cultural memories should be guaranteed permanent protection: ‘Nationally important cultural memories shall be restored and a permanent protection ensured.’ In the draft budget, interest-free loans for church use are zero. If the government actually wants the protection of church buildings, why in the world do they choose to remove a system that they boast of and say has been so functioning and effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3462	The answer to that is that on 10 December there were no applications from Norwegian municipalities to repair several churches, but there was money left in the post office.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3467	I am sure that the representative of the Preste Association at the gallery has received many new interpretations and much inspiration from the debate here today. I am not sure whether the budget is as inspiring. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the Church is in a period marked by the Church Agreement – which we have been together about here on the Stortinget – and there have been many challenges for the Church. They've taken them. They have also been notified of changes, and on request from the department they have worked on improving efficiency and planning for a new ICT strategy. Now this was ready for realization. I expect that when the Council of State has been with and allocated money to this for several years and prepared this, it was intended that investments should also be made. Now I wonder what made the Council of State change when it came to these investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3474	It is true that we have been involved in providing funds for a pre-project to see how to organise and operate ICT in the Norwegian Church. As the representative of Svein Harberg is well known, there are many different actors. It is the Council of Churches, local councils, local councils, Church employers' association – there are many actors within the Norwegian Church. Therefore, it has been important for us to contribute to an investigation into how we can organise a common ICT system for the Norwegian Church. We have presented some solutions to that, and I think we have found a good one, but it is important to me – before we go on with it – that we have an assurance that the local links will also be included in the funding, if not we just create a new ICT company that will cover only parts of the Norwegian Church. We need some assurances about that before we go further and look at how we can get to new ICT solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3479	That's exactly what this pre-project has been doing, and I can't see what would be the uncertainty. There is no doubt that something has to be done here. On the contrary, it would be irresponsible not to use what you have now come up with. The signals are clear that if this is not done now, a new job must be done when this is to be realised, because this is where things happen with the suppliers all the time. This can be used now - if you wait too long, a job has to be done again. I hear the council suggests that she expects others to contribute. The church operates soberly and carefully, they operate actively and well. If they're going to do this on their own, without the Council of State's help, what does the Council of State think they're going to cut in – are there performances, the training of faith or the work of the church bodies that are now going to make all the decisions in the Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3486	It depends on the local joint councils also being involved in financing. Many of the Consultative Councils have their ICT solutions, including: are located in the municipalities, without being visible in the budget of the individual Councils. We have to have an assurance that they're in. The new company to run ICT for the Norwegian Church is rigged as a limited liability company. Today there is also funding from the Information Society's fund within that limited liability company. I think it is important now that we look at the whole funding mechanism to find a good ICT solution. These include: already foreseen that part of the investments will be made through debt financing. It's important that we get a complete solution that we're sure is sustainable even in the future, so that we don't rig a company that doesn't get all the church parts into it. We have to make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3494	To the end: I am afraid that the Council of State will now allow the Norwegian Church to embark on a desert hike. After all, it has worked out before, but it takes a very long time, and I wonder if the message of the Norwegian Church now really becomes the same as the Lord gave Moses: ‘Put two stone tablets, like the first, and come up to me on the mountain.’ This is urgent. We need to get this ICT solution in place, and I hope the Council of State is not sitting there waiting for insurance for too long. Let me take what I have also been a little bit concerned about both in the budget position and in several debates here: the reform of religious education in the Norwegian Church. We are far behind what was expected created by the faith training reform. Does the Council of State see that there is great disappointment and dissent in all the congregations that have not been allowed to enter, and that we may not meet the «let the little children come to me» in a good enough way through the appropriations we have here on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3506	I understand that there are expectations to put in place the faith training reform in the communities that have still not been able to participate in it. That is why I think the appropriations we have now are good. It's at $31 million. kr, and is the largest allocation that has been in existence for a single year since the introduction of the reform. It is absolutely right that we had a year – last year – when we did not have appropriations, and that we therefore need to spend a little longer time before we get the full funding of the reform. We are firmly committed to the full funding of the reform and to ensuring that everyone is allowed to participate in the good offer that I believe is the faith training reform. It is important that we stick to the competences that now exist in the episcopal councils and that can help motivate further efforts. I also think it is important to look at the whole organisation at some point, how much money is going to be centrally located, and how much money is going to be spent locally, as far as the reform of faith training is concerned. It's important to me that the money benefits the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3511	I don't want to let go of the matter we discussed instead. I understand that the Council of State needs to clear up all things about creating a separate company to deal with the ICT bets. Getting those clarifications can be done even if you add an allocation to the budget. There's nothing to stop it. That's what worries me, that there's no money in the budget now, so if you find out that this is a good way to do it, and everyone participates as they should, the money is clear. So now one has put it on hold, and it's not very impulsive in terms of the process of getting everyone else on board. What surprises me is that the Council of State – while she is going to clarify this – is actually putting this on hold for an entire year. Of course, she has a chance to spring – we hope it will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3516	It is important when creating ICT systems – I have some other ICT systems that I also work with, in other parts of the sector – that these are well-thought-out projects. I agree that one should not allow things to go too far from establishing a pre-project until one is in a phase in which one can apply the solutions, but nevertheless, I think it is important to get properly involved in the issues. It's not like you're not spending money on ICT solutions in the Norwegian Church today. But as long as a limited liability company is to be partly financed by a loan, it is a question of how much of today's operating resources are to be invested and, if necessary, finance the operation, how much money is to be used, and how much you can contribute from the Information Society's fund. We have to work on that a little bit more, but I am determined that we will help find solutions that will allow us to move on with the ICT bet that is planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3523	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3526	The government's vision is that Norway will be the world's leading maritime nation. It's a vision that's well anchored in our natural assumptions. But I'm a little bit in doubt about whether we have as good assumptions as we can read about in Matthew's Gospel, chapter 14, where Jesus meters 5,000 men with five loaves and only two fishes. But there are promising prospects that emerge, not in the Bible, but in the report «Verdiskaping based on productive seas in 2050», published by the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and the Norwegian Technical Academy of Sciences. The report estimates that the turnover of the fisheries and aquaculture industries could reach more than 500 billion. SEK annually in 2050. It involves a six-fold increase in turnover in the marine food industry. If we are to realise this potential, we must continue to invest heavily in marine research. A large part of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry’s budget is therefore devoted to research and innovation. My goal is to be the world's foremost in marine and marine food research in order to be able to sustainably harvest the renewable marine resources, to exploit the potential for increased food production from aquaculture and to further develop business activities based on marine resources and new marine growth. Properly managed, marine resources are an eternally renewable source of food and value added. But it assumes that governance is based on good and scientific advice. We have a marine research and a marine management we can be proud of. The Institute of Marine Research, the National Institute of Nutrition and Marine Food Research and the Veterinary Institute are central advisers for our management of marine food resources. The Marine Research Institute and the NIFES have recently been evaluated, and they have been given good shots. The Committee's consideration of the important work done by the Institute of Marine Research on the oil/fishing issue is an example of the benefits of sound, credible professional environments in areas that are important both for administration and for Norwegian society. Research and knowledge development is a prerequisite for further growth in the aquaculture industry, so that follow-up of the sustainability strategy and knowledge-building is given high priority in order to ensure that sustainable and environmentally adapted development will take place. Research on salmon, on genetic impacts between escaped farmed salmon and wild populations, on environmentally friendly marine technologies and on disease and health is important in the future. And research benefits: In the fight against the salmon Mouse, promising results have now been achieved in a project led by Akvaplan-Niva, where individuals of roe kjeks have shown an enormous appetite for salmon, even at low temperatures. This promises good for silencing in the north. The Arctic and Antarctica play a key role in the global climate. The fact that we now have a new ice-going vessel is important for resource and climate research in the north. An ice-going research vessel will strengthen Norway’s ability to contribute important knowledge of international climate work. In order to achieve the objectives of the marine food industry, it is important that we use our research funds optimally. Therefore, in the autumn of 2011, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast, in the form of seven other departments, established the Maritime Strategy Group21. Sea21 will also be important for the work on the forthcoming maritime food communication. The Communication will focus on how Norway can develop its position as a sea mation, and a marine knowledge gap across the marine sector will be a central element. We have to think long-term in the administration of the sea, and we have to think wisely – just as wisely as a Chinese saying: "Give a man a fish, and he has food one day. Learn a man to fish, and he has food all his life." Therefore, knowledge and research are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3554	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3557	Let me start by expressing that I think it is very pleasant and constructive that the Council of State takes the time this year to participate in this debate as well. It's a very important field the Council of State manages – also for us. But we have seen this year that the appropriations for industrial research in the State budget are somewhat reduced. We know that Norway does not focus as much on research as many of the countries with which we compete. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry’s budget proposal says that 1 DKK for the User-Controlled Innovation Arena provides SEK 2.2 for food-funded research. When we know that many of the major maritime food companies in Norway are internationally oriented, and are likely to allocate research funds to the best of them, we should not have invested even more in the User-driven Innovation Arena, the Tax Fund, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3564	The research funding and the research facility are divided into several budget areas, and parts of what is being launched are under the auspices of other government councils. But I'm very busy making business contribute to research. Tax FUNN is a system that the marine food industry has made good use of, and I am absolutely sure it will continue to do so. Representative Lien mentions the major international companies. Yesterday I sent out a press release that the government will open up so that they will actually be allowed to get bigger – i.e.: will be larger and have a share greater than 15 pst. of total biomass in Norway, must contribute to research on an upward scale, which I record that at least one of the large companies also seems to be a sensible device.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3571	Let me say that it's not just Marine Harvest that thinks it's a sensible device; it also does Tord Lien in the first place. I am aware that it is not in the Council of State's field all I asked for instead. This is the fourth time the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is present, while the Minister for Food and Trade has never been present in these debates, and then it is also difficult to put him on the wall. The minority has a note on the framework area of the Councils of State which aims to give the Institute of Marine Research a greater role than today in the national coordination of the various State research vessels. There is reason to point out that the Marine Research Institute is almost able to create miracles. They have 250-300 sailing days and large advanced vessels – it's a huge achievement. It is those who have the most competence in this, and in order to maximise the benefits of tax money, I think it would have been natural to give the Marine Research Institute an even greater and safer role than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3580	When it comes to prioritizing participation in a research debate, I very much agree that this is an extremely important area. That's why I'm spending my time trying to get a discussion going with this committee, and then others are going to assess whether I'm succeeding in having a big and committed debate today. I have learned a lot of Bible words today, and that is always useful! Lien's line is related to what I saw as the coordination of research vessel operations: already today there is a great degree of coordination. The marine research institute has an important role to play in coordinating and using the overall vessel portfolio. I look for all the possibilities to do it even better, because it costs to have steel lying at the berth, and these are extremely expensive boats, which we have to exploit as much as possible. So, of course, we'll look at how we can develop this cooperation even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3588	I think we should all be happy that the miracle it is told in the Bible – these two fishes, etc. that saturate so many people – not being re-created today. This would have significantly reduced demand and market potential for the sector and industry managed by the Minister for Fisheries. I would say, like Tord Lien, that it is perhaps alarming that the Minister of Industry has never been here during our debates on this issue, but it is all the more pleasant that the Minister of Fisheries is here. Then I'll be unscrupulous enough to ask for something on behalf of Bergen. The mountains have heavy research environments related to the marine, climate and marine sectors. There are some challenges, including: to improve the profile and coordination of these environments. Does the Minister for Fisheries realise that she can contribute in any way to strengthening Bergen's position as European Maritime Capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3597	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative of Warloe – I am pleased that the two fishes are not present today. It would be demanding. I have in quiet moments wondered whether Lake Geneva could be fantastically suitable for breeding activity, or perhaps this is a species that is extinct, and we have so far not heard of! I often travel to Bergen, because there we have heavy research environments, both the Marine Research Institute, NIFES and others. The University of Bergen contributes greatly to marine research. It is clear that developing these environments and developing that community in the future is absolutely essential. When I have visits from colleagues from abroad, it is nice to be able to bring them to Bergen to show just what Bergen is doing, both in marine resource management, nutrition research and other. It's quite obvious that there's a potential for even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3604	It was good to hear these words from the Council of State, and I'll continue a little along the same line to give the Council of State the opportunity to say even more nicely about Bergen! As far as I remember, it's approx. Half of Bergen’s 4,000 researchers — that is, approximately. 2 000 researchers — involved in work in these sectors, which are quite closely interwoven, i.e. the climate, sea and marine sectors. The answer to the world’s major challenges, both in terms of health, in terms of food, and perhaps also in terms of climate, lies in the sea, as it is said, at least in terms of knowing more about the climate. There is a ongoing debate on the co-location of several actors, including: The marine research institute, on what's called Marineholmen. My question is, does the Council of State take a positive view of this kind of co-location, and whether it will be possible to contribute to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3611	What made me the most happy about that line is that the representative of Warloe has registered that there are 2,000 researchers here who have close links to the marine sector. Many of these are funded through public budgets, so I interpret it there that the representative Warloe has brought with him the strong commitment the red-green government has had in research in general and in marine research in particular. With regard to the discussion about co-location on Marineholm, it is not to hide that this is a debate that I think may have something to do with itself, but that it is extremely important that the environments we are talking about here have a leading role to play in. A lot of fine things can be said about Bergen, but Bergen isn't a terrible big city, so I don't think the number of meters between the buildings and where the different buildings are located is the most important thing. The most important thing is that we manage to get the best out in all the environments, and not least that the environments in Bergen work together well. They do that already today, but I think it's also a potential to get even more synergies out of what's happening in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3618	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3621	I want to have a humanistic and thus value-neutral approach to the debate. In recent decades, there has been a formidable focus and growth in global and national research and higher education, but efforts have been unevenly distributed from country to country. While the least developed developing developing countries only have 4.5 researchers per million inhabitants, the average in developed countries is 33,000 researchers per million inhabitants. Now we hear that the representative Warloe says that Bergen alone has 4,000 researchers. That might be true, because in Norway we have a formidable 14,000 researchers per million inhabitants. There is an increase from 11,000 in 2001. It is such that access to higher education and research governs much of the development globally. We don't have to go beyond our own Norwegian story to see the same thing. Last year, the University of Oslo's 200th anniversary, and the history of the University of Oslo is the history of the development of Norway at the same time. The scientific research, in its time, gave the start to a formidable Norwegian industrial venture. Kristian Birkeland played a major role in today’s northern light exploration. Birkeland is also known for research into industrial production, and together with Sam Eyde he developed the method for the production of nitrogen oxide, which in turn provided the basis for Norsk Hydro. Our historical research has helped to create a strong Norwegian identity for positive development. Strong and proud universities all over the world have repeatedly shown themselves to be committed to thinking about human rights, equivalency and democracy. Skin democracy and corrupt regimes, on the other hand, are swayed – not necessarily by military coups, but by free opinions. Gender equality has also been strengthened by peer pressure from universities. Norway’s strong development and high welfare levels are also due to a clear ideological commitment – especially from the Workers’ Party, but also from the Centre Party – that all social groups have an equal right to higher education. There should not be anything exclusive for those privileged in society. For this reason Norway, together with Finland, is at the top of the world today when it comes to the percentage of the population taking higher education. 37 pst. of our population today taking higher education – we are at the top of the world. And this will increase sharply in the future as new coals of youth stream into our universities, and that's good. The 2013 State Budget continues and raises the historically important role of research and our universities. The university and higher education sectors will increase their transfers by about 1.5 billion. kr, as well as shall finance and strengthen the new elementary school teacher training and admission of new student coal. One of the government's most important and most recent tools to stimulate quality improvement in higher education and research is the «centres of excellence» system. This scheme will contribute to greater equality between education and research at universities and our universities and to reducing the disqualification among our students. The government also suggests that if the quality is satisfactory, one of the three new centres should be directed towards the follow-up of St. Announcement. No 13 for 2011–2012, Welfare education. I must commend the entire committee, except for Right. The entire Committee – once again unbecoming Right – points to the importance of raising the quality of education and research by moving towards more cooperation, more division of labour and more concentration in the university and higher education sectors. It will provide more robust and profiled professional environments, which in turn increase quality. The entire Committee - once again unexcepted Right - points to the fact that this is already producing results and that work should continue at a higher pace. It is in line with what the sector itself thinks. The Labour Party, on its side, is ready to take a stronger lead in achieving good development and enhancing the quality of our education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3642	Research is important because it can give new insight. It's about the pursuit of new ideas, new solutions, how the world is going to move forward. The notion that man can influence his own everyday life and control social development is the basis of our modern society. It's the idea of the Enlightenment and the basic idea of modernity. For the Workers' Party, belief in new science and science-based decisions based on popular power has been absolutely fundamental. That is why we are focusing on research. Since the red-green government took over in 2005, the growth in the State budget for research has been 2.5 times higher than in the budget as a whole. Real growth in the state budget is 12.5 p.p., while research efforts have increased by 32 p.p. since we took over. In addition, public research efforts have increased from 0.8 pst. from 2005 to 0,92 pst. today. So we're on the right track to achieve the goal of using 1 pst for the public. of GDP in research. We're going to take Norway further, with real bets. Such bets have given and will bring new knowledge and social gains. On the right, they say they have new ideas and new solutions, but you have to wonder about something. Their answer seems to be the opposite of yesterday's solutions to tomorrow's challenges. When they say they're going to bet on research, they have two main actions. One is about reintroducing the gift enhancement scheme. The second is about reintroducing the Research Fund. So what's new in this? What they propose does not strengthen research. There are arrangements that have been closed for good reasons. The biggest disadvantage of their research funds is that the only way to increase returns is by increasing the share of the foreign state pension fund’s foreign earnings. Thus, with the Right’s proposal, there will have to be a discussion in government and growth each year about how much greater a share of State pension funds will be earmarked for research only in order to keep on a real continuation. It's a little predictable. Instead, the government has chosen to continue the Research Fund’s return as ordinary appropriations that are automatically priced and remunerated each year. In this way, it is ensured that the funds do not lose value as a result of wage and price increases. The gift-enhancing scheme is often produced as a central tool for increasing the research effort of industry, but it is totally wrong. The gift-enhancing system strengthens gifts from private individuals with public funds. The government wants private donations to research, and so do they, but the government believes it makes more sense that the use of public funds for research should be based on professional priorities – not on which institutions receive gifts from private individuals – and that is what we have agreed to. We bet better, among other things by increasing the budgets for free project support. The investment in research results. Multiphase technology has saved the oil industry for several hundred billion dollars and has been used by oil companies around the world. Instead of building a new platform for each field, it can lead oil and gas in the same seabed pipe and up to the nearest platform. Norway is the world leader in late-care research, and the Molecular Biology and Neuroscience Centres aim to play a leading role in the investigation of the importance of mechanisms for DNA repair and permeability to prevent neurological disease and aging in the brain. There's just tastes of what's going on in the research world. The aim of the Labour Party is for Norway to be among the world's strongest in knowledge, with enterprises and research in world-leading positions in the areas we have people and take advantage of. We will do as it says in the book of Psalms: "I will turn my ear to the words of wisdom; I will shew my riddle to the sound of the lyre." We have good conditions to achieve this through a robust economy, through competitive, innovative labour and through the investment in research we see in the budget. Knowledge takes Norway further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3666	The Constitutional changes in May 2012 led to changes for the Norwegian Church. This manifested itself last Friday by the first time since the 1537 Reformation itself elected a new bishop in Agder and Telemark bishops. It's historic. Change relations between the state and the church were and is a desirable church itself working for, and is at the same time a natural consequence of a larger, numerous Norway. Although relations have changed, there is still a public responsibility to make sure that the Church can also be a nation-wide church that is present in all communities in the future. Church is an important institution in our society. The number of members remains stable, and user surveys show that the Church delivers services of good competence and high quality. This is particularly evident when crises and deaths happen to individuals and communities. The requirement for this is in many ways a good and stable performance service. The budget provides the basis for continuing the performance of the services at about the same level as today. The Prestetenesta is constantly changing to meet changes in the buset pattern. I believe that in the future you will need a higher crew to maintain a good service in the districts while providing good services in the growing regions. The prestige has a high average age; it takes a long time to train good priests. In order to maintain the service, we therefore need to focus specifically on recruiting the profession and on the study in the future. We also need to make working conditions attractive to the profession and that good continuing training ensures motivated priests who will be in a lifelong service for the benefit of the church and society. A further development of the relationship between the state and the church must keep an eye on ensuring continuity through a stable and good performance service. In the 2013 budgetary position, the government is taking the initiative to evaluate church law. This work is ongoing, and when the evaluation is carried out, it will provide a good basis for further development of the relationship between the state and the church and any changes in church law. It is important that Churcha has access to good administrative tools. Such tools can enable the Church to make better use of resources for community-building activities and reduce administrative and bureaucratic costs. It has over time been working on our own ICT strategy in Kyrkja. This initiative is in line with the government's communication and ICT policy. Our multicultural societies demand dialogue and coexistence between people of different faiths and religious overinterpretation. The requirement for this is knowledge of owning trust and identity. Threat training reform is an important contribution to this. A good threat training is also a commitment to sustain a broad, committed and nation-based people's church. 406 church sounds are not yet covered by the reform, and St.meld. No 7 for 2002–03 set a budget target of 250 million. kr in 2003-krona. We are pleased that the 2013 budget is continuing the escalation of the threat training reform. Threat training, the evaluation of church law and, not least, a robust pastoral service are important measures to strengthen the Church. These are good, but also absolutely necessary, provisions for further development of the relationship between the state and the church. It is immeasurably important that we not weaken the Church's presidencies in order to be able to carry out an important task in our society in the future. Finally, I would also quote a Bible word: "Pray, then you shall have. Easy, you're going to have to find. Tap, and it shall be opened to you."
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3695	The working party has great ambitions for all students, and therefore also the red-greens have been driving a large-scale knowledge upgrading of the common school in the last seven years. New hours have been introduced in the nuclear disciplines and homework for the smallest. We have worked systematically with early efforts and adapted training. Youth school has become more practical and varied with new elective and more physical activity. We have introduced new teacher training courses, started a large-scale effort on continuing education and arranged for 1 300 school buildings to be refurbished. The new GIV has been introduced to combat non-response and the social contract for multiple apprenticeships is in place. Now we see the results. The international studies confirm on a continuous basis a positive trend. Norwegian students perform better in math, reading and natural sciences. The trend in Norwegian school has turned around, we're on the right track. Tuesday was a happy day for Norwegian school, and there is good reason to congratulate the country's students, teachers and parents on a formidable effort. It was good that the representative of Aspaker's doomsday prophecies were put to shame. The rest of us listened to the plain, which said, ‘Rejoice in that day and leap for joy.’ Everything is not perfect in Norwegian school, but there are some basic things that are fortunately in place. Because when the Bondevik II government got the teachers against themselves and the students to strike, the red-green government has helped to calm down in school. And where the right side is still concerned with ideological experiments like privatisation and grades from the fifth grade, we're systematically working on measures that we know work. The country's voters know what they get with our school policy, because it's a red-green thread through our budget. In the opposition there is not even a single blue thread, the budget setting cracks over almost the whole line. It says in Solomon’s proverb: ‘The one who launches a quarrel opens up a flood. Stop before thirteen breaks loose!’ Because there's a lot of disagreement. Right will have more hours, Left and Christian People's Party will have fewer. Some are too hours for homework, others think it can be solved by volunteers. There is talk of the importance of early effort, while the right-hand comrades down in the street in Oslo City Hall cutters in kindergartens. It's good to read the Bible, but someone might have interpreted it a little bit literally when they read that Adam and Eve were told that they were going to die if they ate apples. There are certain parts here that have made a crusade against fruit and green. I can tell that it's been a while since that time, research shows that fruit and green make the students learn more, so we're willing to spend money on it. There is talk of implementing power on the right hand side, but in this budgetary position it may seem that one of the few things that they might be able to accomplish is to open up a release of private schools. I am proud that in 2005 we stopped the bourgeois government's massive privatisation plans. The Labour Party would rather strengthen and improve the single school, as it provides the basis for all children and young people to have the same opportunities, for social cohesion and small differences. In Sweden, they have tried out the right-hand dream of school privatisation. School results go down and differences increase. In Norway, we have strengthened the primary school. We're on the right track, but we're going on. There's too many people who don't master basic skills, there's too many students who fall away, and there's no doubt that we have to work more systematically to raise math skills. But we know that quality costs. That is why we are not making promises about billions of tax cuts to those who already have the most. We choose to strengthen the local economy by 5 billion. kr in free income next year. We're giving priority to recruiting 600 new teachers. We're strengthening Newton's space and knowledge centers, so that more people can experience real-time facsimile pleasures. We're setting up a free cultural school class. We're going to continue with the introduction of the 9th stage electoral profession. And we'll give you $30 million. kr for the further training of teachers in class management and basic skills. It's a matter of whether we have a majority who will spend the big money on the big tasks and knowledge for everyone, or whether we have a majority who will spend the big money on tax cuts for the few. When right-wing politicians in Bergen celebrate tax cuts with champagne, while the students in Bergen School get education in low-feed, yes, then it's my reason to fear what the right-hand side will prioritize if they ever get a majority in this room as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3732	In order to create a basis for future value creation and well-being, it is crucial that our companies use new knowledge and research on nutrition rights. These are probably some of us all here in this room today. We should also be some people in that the real growth of the researchers' licenses is 32 pst. since we took over. This is a formidable increase. In the business debate, we discussed SkattenFUNN, a great deal about which is both unbureaucratic and a very good arrangement. The government has a better tax FUNN scheme, including: cancelling the annual project costs of own R & D from 4 million. NOK to SEK 5.5 million. NOK 8 million. NOK 11 million. kr for purchased R & D. The regulatory framework is also up-to-date, and the TaxFUNN scheme is now relevant to companies as developers technologies requiring investment in demo and pilot installations. TAX FUNN increases nominally by 1.4 billion. kr from 2012 - this is a lot of money. Then we have to bear in mind that SkattenFUNN is a system based on dishes, and we red-green are busy using the tax money to trigger projects that otherwise had not seen the light of day, not triggering projects that had come anyway. This government is really investing in research. A number of schemes have been put in place to strengthen cooperation between universities and business, research in and for business and the commercialisation of research results. Centres for Research-driven Innovation and Research Centres for Eco-friendly Energy, Norwegian Centre of Expertise, Närings-Ph.d. Scheme, Regional R & D and Innovation, VRI, FORNY 2020 and the Eco-Technology Scheme – these are good things for business. I would also like to mention the regional research fund scheme. User-driven research, where enterprises are project leaders for the research project, has been strengthened. Here, the expected triggering effect on the company's own R & D activity is a criterion for the allocation. That's good. It triggers more research. The system for the commercialisation of research results from universities, colleges, institutes and health professionals has also been strengthened in recent years. But I always want to ask the question, do we use the resources we have, right? What kind of knowledge do we actually need for years to come? And is there an area where we need to strengthen our efforts? Maybe we should eat more? All of this and more will probably be discussed in detail in the research message that is coming, and we'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3750	A good part of the debates we have in this Chamber, and the responsibilities allocated to the Scientific Committees of the United Kingdom, are debates and areas which intervene in the next debate and subject area. A clear example is the sector that is on the block right now. A good education is important for the whole of the coming life of every little person who walks through our educational institutions. The challenge is that not everyone walks through. Someone's limping through, someone's tripping through, someone's limping through, someone's not getting through. Those of our young people who have the greatest challenges in this way are probably those who have some disability. I got an e-mail from a father not long ago. It began as follows: «I am the father of a disabled daughter Up through the years we have fought for transport services and schooling with organisation. [[...]] For further education and now work.» Discrimination on the grounds of disability is prohibited and Norway is now at the brink of ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In that light, the struggle that this danger described was not to be necessary in our society. Last week I was at the annual conference of the organization Young People with Disabilities. Nor should it be necessary for them to tell us in the Chamber what was the result of their recent investigations, namely that: it is more difficult for people with disabilities than for others to complete high school education is far too poor to manage information on organisation when there are high competitions for apprenticeship places, the risk for disabled students to end up at the back of the queue is a major difference between how Norwegian universities and colleges facilitate a large proportion of disabled students have assessed the completion of the studies due to poor organisation. When we then know how important it is — no matter how functional — to complete a course of education in order to make a good transition to work and then simply a meaningful life, it is important to point out from this platform that each of our educational institutions has a great responsibility to facilitate young people with disabilities regardless of the type of disability. I'm not sure how much the council focuses on this. The need for skilled labour indicates that there will be a benefit, both for individuals and for society, for more disabled people to take on higher education. This must also be the focus of the Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3786	In the business debate yesterday I talked about the importance of the school for Norwegian business. That's what I'm going to do today, too. When I'm out talking to people in the world of work, they almost always raise questions about school, and challenges of getting skilled labour for a demanding working life. One of the strengths of competition in Norwegian business is competent and self-employed workers at all levels of the organisation. Norwegian employees are also good at working independently and taking initiatives across disciplines. I recently attended a seminar with the oil technology companies. They pointed out that, in addition to their top skills, Norwegian workers have the characteristic that they are independent and have a broad basis, which is very important for coping with hard competition. The public sphere is the basis for this valuable competence. It is therefore gratifying that the results of the school have been better during this government. A good school provides the basis for developing a competence-based business that can create jobs with a perspective beyond the age of oil. The interaction between the knowledge environment and business is an important element of a dynamic and innovative business. Clustering cooperation between large and small enterprises and the research community has proved to be very valuable and effective. It is a form of cooperation that affects both business and educational institutions. Enterprises are in contact with the research front, and students can get relevant and exciting tasks and contact with the working life in which they are going to go after they have completed their education and research projects. The government has also launched an experiment with a broader cooperation between academia, work and business. The University of Tromsø is a pilot of such cooperation, a social contract. It will be exciting to see how this collaboration develops, and how they can capture the new currents in our modern society. Because today it's no longer like we're inventing knowledge at the university and then he's moving out into the business world afterwards. It's actually like today that a large part of the knowledge generation is going out in the business world, which is very diner and very highly competent in its special fields. Then they are in close contact with business, which can get the scientific basis for that work and create a good cluster around it. I'm not very good in the Bible, but I thought I could quote Einstein because I'm a realist. These are the following: Not everything that can be counted, not everything that counts, can be counted. That seems to me to be a good motto for an expanded knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3803	It hit me instead. The NRK has received a lot of criticism in the pre-Christmas period that there has been too little Christian content in their programs. I think this debate has taken it well back. So it's like I can't leave this room without mentioning the Church. On 21 May this year, the Stortinget passed the Church Act and the Constitution with great historical significance. After 500 years, the ties between the church and the state were loosened. The peasants were historically the ones who provided church buildings, and the King was the one who brought bishops and priests. The 21st of May 2012 coincidentally met, but also a little symbolically, farmers and priests on the Lion's Hill. They were not exactly for the decision that was then made in Stortinget, but nevertheless. From this day on, the Church was given responsibility for adding bishops and proselytes, and the Church has now added its first bishop in Agder and Telemark. In addition, the Church is responsible for its own church buildings. I think it is important to mention these changes before closing the book for 2012. Then the Church of the People shall continue to exist. The prerequisite for this is good church democracy. There has been a broad consensus that the opening up of church democracy has been too bad. Low disintegration in the elections to councils and councils of bishops has been a challenge, seams in the event of reorganization. The major challenges of making the elections to the Bishops' Council and the Church Meeting work will therefore be a very important task to find a solution to the coming year. It is absolutely necessary that the Church Meeting, and later the Storting, find a system that ensures a stronger democratic legitimacy and anchoring among church members than was the case in the previous two church elections. Then to the 2013 budget proposal itself. Numbers from the Norwegian Church show that at the lower edge of 80 pst. of those born here to countries are baptized and taken up as members of the Norwegian Church. Since religious training no longer belongs in school, it is important that the Church gives its members this offer. I am therefore pleased that this year the government has increased the budget for the training reform by 31.2 million. kr, which is the largest escalation since the reform was launched. I am betting that the Council of Churches will make a good distribution of funds, and that we will be able to return to the full funding afterwards. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV found room to increase the allocation to the Maritime Church's activities in Spain in order to be able to catch up with the young people who live there and who are in a vulnerable and difficult situation in life. Suffering if strictly not should be the task of the Church, they have seen a great and growing need to help children suffering from care failure in Norwegian families living abroad. Then there was much more I should say, but I will end by thanking everyone who is making a great effort on behalf of the Church in all phases of life, and wish Christmas to those who go into what is perhaps the busiest working time of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3824	Research needs long-termity," said the Left's Step Skei Grande in an earlier article today. We all agree on that, and that's why the government is now working on a research report. There is a lot of wisdom in today's texts, both the proposition and the setting, which is worth including in this message. I think many of the opposition's comments are good in this way, including this with increased basic funding and this with reopening the publishing pot. There are probably several other good reflections there too. But here, too, we see in SV that the Right Party and the Advance Party have an excessive concept of research, just as they do when it comes to the narrow, somewhat instrumental vision of knowledge that we have discussed here a little earlier today. With this knowledge view, well-being, nutrition and democracy become almost disruptive elements in school and not prerequisites for effective learning, as we believe they are. Right Henning Warloe says in his contribution that research does not need district championships, but is an activity that is, as it were, to participate fully in global competition. Research that does not reach that competition does not have the right to life. I very much disagree with that. We need research and researchers to participate at the global level and to participate in and succeed in global competition. But we absolutely also need research – Alf Holmelid was involved in it in his contribution – that takes place in and meets the needs of local and regional communities. Researchers shall participate in global knowledge developments, but researchers shall also participate in local and regional societal developments. It shall be useful for the whole of society at all levels. Research must also take place among us who live in communities where it raises the awareness that some read books voluntarily, cf. Kjell Auversut, or where it really makes us a little discouraged when we discover that we have a sibling who is able to read before there are five, cf. Alf Prøysen. It is important that research is carried out in such communities. When we look at that research activity, it is very much influenced by the fact that it is part of national and international networks. In what is hopefully going to become the Inland University, the campus with the largest research activity is the smallest campus, namely evenstad north of Elverum and Rena. It is important that research is constantly linked to society and contextual, and then we need research that is both global, national, regional and local contextual. So good Right: Expand their research concept, and we'll very much agree when the research notification discussion comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3839	Finnland County is right to market itself as the county of opportunity. From an economic point of view, it is not difficult to see the county facing a positive trend: oil, gas, mineral, fisheries, travel, etc. Young people in Finnmark can rightly look to the future with optimism. And they do. They are optimistic because there will undoubtedly be many more jobs available than in many, many decades. More and more exciting jobs, jobs requiring knowledge, many of which require new skills. Finnmark with its many possibilities is like creating new ideas and better solutions. That is why the debate that is going to the Chamber today is important to take on behalf of the young people in Finnmark. Finnmark is probably the county where the distance between the competences we possess and the competences we will need is the greatest, both because the level of education is low and because many have to change their skills in the future. Unfortunately, statistics tell us that we perform worse professionally, and get too few through the education cycle. This statistics briefly tells us that many of the Finnmark youth are at risk of losing the opportunities they are so optimistic about. Fortunately, over the years, the government has made two important confessions: knowledge can be measured, and the measurement results tell something important about human possibilities further in life. The government has also realized that competent teachers are a very important part of the solution for getting better results in school, which I think is very good. Therefore, I am sorry that the continuing training programme for teachers is so centralized that it is sometimes difficult for many, and for small municipalities, to participate. Here I think it is better to let the good ideas breed, so that the best solutions can be found from the point of view of municipalities, schools and teachers. Unfortunately, the central government is too often overpowered, which in turn kills good local initiatives. My municipality, Båtsfjord, could with some flexibility get six teachers through the further training programme for the same money we spent on getting two pieces through in the government's arrangement. We had to use the colleges in Trondheim and Tromsø instead of our own in Alta. We could have used decentralised solutions, which we are very good at, but unfortunately had to travel to fixed collections. I don't doubt the good intentions, but unfortunately, I record that the government doesn't have the ability to produce good ideas or new solutions, not the ability to see diversity as a value, but through old thinking, it's going to push everyone into the same program. Then it just fits almost for everyone, and not very well for anyone. The government's last school policy symbolism action, which aims to increase the teacher's density, where 1.5 billion are to be spent. kr over four years of age and after poor ability, where these drops are to hit the sea shall not be allowed to meet other than headshake. As rapporteur, I agreed to introduce a maximum of 15 students in primary schools in Båtsfjord. This was very well received, and one of the most important experiences we drew was this: the classes are so different that where one class needed the measure, it could be completely unnecessary in the parallel class. This found out the teachers completely without asking the department. Think of what the municipalities could have done in continuing education for 1.5 billion. kr over 4 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3854	In politics, many people talk about prevention, and it is very common to stress in all political contexts how important it is to spend money on prevention rather than spending money on repairing. It is very difficult to imagine any better prevention than the school system. We know that one of the things behind the new poverty problems in Norway is the failure of the school system. If you go out of school without getting quite basic basic skills, the chance is that you're going bad for the rest of your life. It's at least bigger than if you learned what to do at school. We know that it also provides the basis for high drop-outs in high school — the highest on many professional lines. Some places are up to half dropping out of high school without having received secondary education. So the question is, what happens then? Some of the problem is that we have a lot of systems in Norway where each system, individually, may work well, but they can't talk to each other. Many of those who the Education Committee see disappear from school show up in another committee – the Labour and Social Committee. They show up at the Nav offices instead. Some of them are school leavers, some of them are out of theory, and some are developing or have had easier mental disorders, which if you go year after year without doing anything about it, will become serious mental disorders. Then they get offers from different parts of the system individually. You may get a psychological session once a week after a while in a queue, and after a while, the caregiver may come in to give them an opportunity to go back to school, or try to get them back to school. If they go properly long and really come to Nav and have to start asking for money in order to get along, the Nav system also steps in. The problem is that far too many places these different parts are too poorly coordinated. There is a general problem in the large welfare state in Norway that it is not possible to link the different parts. It is not possible to apply the measures where necessary. One of the most important things to do is to have a Nav system that works. Then there must be a Nav system that demands people, who do not let people go passively, and who do not accept that young people and healthy young people go on for weeks, months, maybe even half a year or a year, without getting offered or without being assigned activity. They also need to be implemented early. There has been one of the most important critics on the Right against the New GIV programme, which in itself has a lot to do, that action is being taken too late. It doesn't stop getting into the tenth step. You should have the opportunity to do it earlier. So I think you can learn nationally from what you've done, among other things. in Rogaland County, under skillful blue-blue rule, where drop-outs have just been brought down by looking at how the different parts of the public sector can cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3867	I haven't said anything about war memory memory in today's debate, but I have a pin with General Fleischer on me, so I think I'll let it go. Those who have followed these debates know where I stand in that matter. It's been about research. There's a lot of fun with numbers there as well, and we have a lot of fun, all of them. But once again, if we look at the publicly funded and driven research, we're going to come out in the middle. At least there is no reason to call very hard with the warning bells. But if we include business-funded research, Norway is going to be very poor. Of course, you can assume that it doesn't have any responsibility on the part of national authorities, that is, the Storting. It may well be a morally correct position to take, but it does not help. This is the business we're going to live on in the future that we're going to develop. This is where we're going to modernise the public sector and create new values in society. When business doesn't research, we have to grab hold of it. Then I think it is a bit surrealistic that for the fourth time in this process we have a debate on the budgetary area of the church, education and research committee without the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade being present. It is also the year in which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade presents a budget that is in nominal zero growth and a partly severe real decline – in a year when we have a historical space for action. Never has any government in Norway had so much money, and there have never been so many unemployed academics in the rest of Europe. We choose not to use that space. It's sad. The Progress Party incorporates its budget proposal to strengthen many of the arrangements: TaxFUNN significantly in addition to government proposals, User-driven Innovation Arenas and Renew 2020. These are all programmes that will directly stimulate more research in business. This is the way to solve it, not by saying no, we have no responsibility for this. Many of Norway’s major and key companies are part of international groups, and they are researching where they get the most for money. Norway must also be able to pull the load. There was speaking time out, but I want to thank you for the debate, and I want to quote Solomon's proverb, which we're all going to take along. In the second chapter, it says: ‘Wisdom shall enter into your heart; knowledge shall bring you joy.’ Then we hope that we get more of that after today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3883	I would also like to thank you for what I believe has been a good debate, although we disagree on a number of points about what kind of priorities will be the right one to do in the future. Now it's approaching the time when angels are going to fall into hiding, and we're going to sing hallelujah probably up to several times. I can't free myself to say that I think maybe there's been a lot of hallelujah here tonight and a little bit of audacity, because we have a way to go before we can say that we're completely in the goal. I think it's a very important message to Norwegian students that when Christmas is over, we expect you to go back to school and make full effort. It's absolutely necessary for when the next reporting post is in relation to these international surveys, that to continue the progress we can now track, we need to rise to new heights. The medicine for lack of mathematical understanding is more mathematics, not less mathematics. I think it's incredibly important to have more and better continuing education for the country's mathematics teachers, and I think it's important that the post-secondary education does not focus on secondary education, but that it's at least as important to focus on the continuing education of mathematics teachers at primary school. This autumn there has been an important discussion among prominent mathematicians about how to change teacher training and how to provide room for more training in the four arithmetical classes. It is also very clear that algebra, where Norway is cutting very poorly, has to be introduced to high school and not to eighth grade as today. I saw that myself a very successful example when I visited Smeaheia elementary school in Sandnes a few years ago. They had adopted a Russian math coupling and already put in the first class with equations with two unknowns, colliding with x and y and researching how these relationships actually were. So mathematics needs a broader foundation among the students, and it's incredibly important for the other real subjects that the mathematics understanding becomes good early in order to get the most out of that subject up in school. My challenge to the Council of State is about the math discussion that has been in the harvest, is being addressed in some way, and whether we can expect that we will get the renewal of the math subject that can make us succeed better with it. The title of this TIMSS research report was Progress, but far ahead. I think we should notice that. So I also want the Council of State finally to respond to the challenge I had in my first post, whether she still intends to carry out the sale of student housing in Narvik, or whether she has actually thought that the students in the engineering study places that are established there will also have housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3900	Since it is my last ordinary budget debate, I will quote from John 7: "I'll be with you for a little while." And when it's been a while since the election, I'll go on with John 7: ‘You shall look for me, but not find me.’ Let me make some final comments in this budget debate: [[Laughter]] Remember, theories and practical strong students have abilities that are important to us as a nation and that we need. Remember, the importance of parents and their interest in education are essential for the success of children in their schooling. Remember, the school will, in cooperation and understanding with the world, equip our children for life. Remember, children need to be anchored, that the training of faith by all religious and life-seeking communities is vital to giving children the strength to sail. Remember, students don't live by books alone, but they also need sounding coins and bread. Remember, student parents need arrangements that ensure a good start with the family. And remember, this house is there to serve those who are outside the house, and not primarily ourselves. Remember to give the teachers the opportunity to give the children golden moments. If you follow these advice, there will be peace, and then you will live a long time in the country!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3919	Thanks, it sounds good! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3922	During this debate, of course, there are a lot of people who have repeated each other, because we have constantly referred to the PIRLS and the TIMSS studies, which have marked this week's news. I can in fact agree with what many of us have said, and as Elisabeth Aspaker just mentioned, that it still has to be worked hard in Norwegian school. I don't think so many people are in doubt about really, but at the same time I would say that I think students and teachers should take a well-deserved Christmas holiday, like the Stortinget. They can do that with a good conscience. I'm absolutely sure they're going to go back to school and enjoy catching up on new days, where they're going to learn and thrive together. It is clear that it should be worked, but as in Stortinget tonight, it helps with laughter and well-being. Then you feel better both at work and at school. That's why we shouldn't forget that piece, either. In the case of the TIMSS and the PIRLS studies, there were actually four main findings. One was that for the fourth grade it is good in Norwegian and mathematics. Especially in Norwegian, we do it very well, and in mathematics, we have a lot of progress. In the eighth step, the reading skills are also good, but they don't do it in math. When we know what the state of mathematics is like for the teacher students – it came out in another report that came in March – there's no doubt that this must be a theme when the Storting should go into and evaluate the Knowledge promise, that we may need to have a better look at the teacher's plans than we normally have. I have to say, I'm a little surprised at the professional environments of the universities and colleges and those who make teacher plans, that it's completely silent from these environments. We politicians cannot be expected to go in and be math or Norwegian professional advisers, or professional advisers in different disciplines. Sometimes we are challenged by things in school that are of a more professional nature. Sometimes I would also like the debate that is going on between different professionals to become more apparent. There I agree with what has been said, and we hope that the Ministry of Knowledge is also with us to draw that discussion further forward and make it clear. Finally, I commend the representative Dagrun Eriksen both for her last post, but also for her main post, where she reminded us all of how important it is to have a broad knowledge view. All these little children and young people are struggling with their lives, so are they. They have a lot of different things inside. So if you think of stereotypes, and think that all of these tests are the only gratifying, we lose a very important dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3934	It's nice times for Norway. Most people in Norway and far beyond the Norwegian border are happy that things are going well here. It is that employment and value creation are top-recorded. Economic measurement parameters, such as GDP growth and trade balance, show a clear positive trend. There is every reason to rejoice, and most – most people outside this hall and most of the parties in this room, except for Right. At first, it was the research that failed, despite a real growth, that we've heard, on 32 pst. – 2.5 times the room for manoeuvre in the budget. Hardly any other sector has had such a formidable growth. On Tuesday, the school results were right-wing complaints, despite the fact that all good indicators again pointed to a good development. In the meantime, the failure of innovation forces in Norwegian business is a failure. It has occurred to me that the Right is turning around with a great deal of security about the lack of innovation in Norwegian business. The best thing to say about it is that the security of the slope is inversely proportional with the insight – even in this case. On the right, the Innovation Union Scoreboard is constantly referring to the Innovation Union Scoreboard, where Norway is just enough placed in a small 17th place of a total of 34 countries. But right jump gallant over e.g. World Competitiveness Scoreboard, where Norway has a pretty 8th place of a total of 59 countries, with weights from far more and more relevant indicators. Then I will briefly mention another indicator, the German Innovation Indicator, where Norway has gone up from a 14th place in 1995 to a 7th place in 2010 – much precisely because of direct and indirect support for R & D in industry, to productivity and to the framework conditions for innovation. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to refer to what the Research Council says in its latest indicator report. It says: ‘Norway is often said to be poor in international rankings of innovation capabilities. It is a truth with great modifications.» The analysis of Norwegian innovation skills should then definitely be based on a more nuanced basis than our location in different scoreboards. It is also the case that in the last presentation of the Research Barometer, the ‘high pressure’ was used for the publicly funded research, where Norway is at the very top, while the term ‘low pressure’ was used for the corresponding situation in industry. It owes most to our structure, it owes most to a commodity-producing business, and that small businesses with less than ten added make up a total of 36 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3958	First, I would like to answer specifically the question from the representative of Aspaker regarding Narvik and student housing: I have informed the new relationship that they will receive 2 million in connection with the merger. SEK extra in grants, 20 million. kr extra in grants to Narvik for the rehabilitation of student housing in Narvik – it is at the top of 17.9 million. kr they have previously been given rehabilitating student housing in Narvik – and commitments are to be made for the construction of 150 new student housing in Bodø, because there is a great need. Then I have given the board of directors of student relations the task of going through the economic situation of communication and presenting a plan, a strategy plan, within the framework they now have, by 1 October. If the board of directors of the Nordic countries finds that they have a sustainable arrangement for continuing the number of student homes they now have, maintaining them and keeping the student welfare offer up to date, it is a very good starting point for housing not to be sold. So now it's up to the board, with new framework conditions, to do that job. I am reasonably sure that the whole Stortinget will believe that you need to have student relationships that are conducted well and reasonably economically, and now we have arranged for it to be possible to do that job. So some comments at the end of the debate. What's really good about these results that we now get from TIMSS and PIRLS, and that comes to the top of the PISA results that we got from 2009, is that the researchers say there's clearly a change in trend, and that Norwegian school is progressing. But that doesn't mean we're going to say that now the job is done, because we have significant challenges in the middle. There's much less progress on step 8 than it is on step 4. That gives us a challenge. We have a significant challenge in terms of the highest-performance students. There we should have higher ambitions. At all, Norwegian students — probably all of them — have a much greater opportunity to take up their time. But what's very good is that we now see that the teachers can straighten their backs and have confidence. It must be over to drop down to Norwegian school. Norwegian school is in very good progress, in such good progress that what we have done arouses international interest. And remember this: Finland is on its way down – a bad trend for mathematics – and Sweden's results are absolutely very alarming for Sweden. So let's take that security further and at the same time also the certainty that well-being and achievement are closely linked. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3969	Then the council must stop talking, because the speaking time is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3985	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e3999	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4013	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4022	The proposals of the Christian People's Party highlight with their proposal an important and serious theme. The proposals are similar to the seven proposals we debated in the Chamber on 16 June 2011, see. Document 8:95 S for 2010–2011. A single committee shares the views of the proposers on human dignity and the fight against all forms of discrimination. The Committee also considers it serious that there is a growing antisemitism in Norway. We record that the police and others believe that the extent of hate crime is greater than what is currently being recorded, and it is an important task to ensure proper registration and to help lower the threshold for reporting crime. Since we last debated these proposals, we have gained more knowledge through several reports and concrete figures and facts that can help the government to find targeted measures. Whereas the various departments concerned with promoting equality and preventing discrimination on different grounds of discrimination must put in place appropriate measures to counter prejudices against minorities, including Jews; The school has an important role to play in this work. One of the things the government has done is to give money to organizations that work for better dialogue between young Jews and young Muslims. Transparency and dialogue promote mutual understanding and contribute to respect for both inequalities and the common values on which society is to be built. I think it is good that we in Norway have a good climate for dialogue across religion and the way of life. But I still see that we have a job to do after the headlines we've seen about Judaism in Norwegian school and elsewhere. This is serious. The majority will not vote for the seven proposals of the Christian People's Party today. The majority of the Committee refers to the government’s response to the seven concrete proposals in letters to the Committee of 1 November 2012. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Knowledge sees the need to strengthen the competence of these areas of school, and they will look further at what might be relevant in the follow-up to the Eidsvåg report. It could happen again. They recognise that there may be a need to strengthen the skills of teachers, and therefore they are developing a comprehensive approach to the school's work against anti-semitism and racism. I would also like to point out that criminal law protection against hate crime has been reinforced, that the Ministry of Justice will monitor developments in case-law and in the light of this assessment whether further changes should be proposed. It is also important that the PST follow up on the various websites and the extremist environments in which Jewish hatred is prevalent. In the case of a separate Jewish action plan, the majority of the Committee does not wish to do so. We believe that it is not natural to have a plan for one group, but also to see the whole picture of discrimination against different religions and views of life. The government has an action plan to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination. This plan is now extended and will not expire until 2013. The summary and final evaluation of the action plan will provide us with a better basis for assessing how to systematise further work, and we will be able to assess how targeted the actions we have undertaken have been and consider continuing those that have worked well. History must not be forgotten, and it is important that what is holocaust is repeated and repeated in school. This applies to Norwegian children and parents, but also to immigrant children and their parents. Then it is very important to find out what happened to the Jews during World War II in Europe, but perhaps especially important what happened in Norway. We request that document 8:145 S be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4061	Antisemitism is at its best in today's democratic Norway. The Jews throughout history have been subjected to persecution and harassment of a very serious degree. There is hardly any group of people who have been exposed to the same thing as the Jews. It would have been thought that what history has said would have contributed to the end of what has been done. Unfortunately, in spite of all that Jews have gone through, it is still true that the hatred of the Jews has not subsided among some — rather on the contrary. The Progress Party believes that no one should be discriminated against because of neither ethnicity nor religion. All men are equally worthy, and neither have the Jews done anything that can in any way defend the wrong done, and the harassment and persecution to which they have been subjected, and in part have been subjected. It is frightening to read the report Monitoring knowledge and attitudes in the field of racism and antisemitism. It emerges that Jewish school students are much more exposed to what is called unpleasant events than others. This is serious and must be taken seriously. That the great parties during the debate by Innst. 406 S for 2010–2011 did not take seriously this report inwards and would not attach that weight, should actually be a warning. The reasons for the findings in the report may be many and complex. Of course, historylessness is a reason, a general lack of humanity can be another reason. But it seems that some people may feel that some groups may be exposed to a little bit more than others. These are attitudes that need to be repressed and changed. These are attitudes that are dangerous if they develop. It is therefore important that we make it clear in this hall that everyone is equally worth it, and that if someone is subjected to persecution and harassment because of it. ethnicity or religion shall not be accepted. The earlier and clearer opinions are given, the easier they become for individuals. That the school has to take its role, there's no doubt about it. That school students learn about how the persecution of Jews developed, and what can be done to prevent this, is good knowledge that should be given much greater emphasis than today. The attitudes that young people take with them will often be a guiding principle in life. The same applies to attitudes that you do not get. Of course, our attitudes affect us throughout our lives. One of the major influencing factors in today's society is the media. It is therefore allowed to be considered when you see some media portraying the conflict in the Middle East, where it is mostly presented as if Jews are offensive, which in many ways are responsible for conflict. This affects people, both young and adults. It is therefore important that the media also have balanced, factual and factual representations about what is happening in such conflicts. A misrepresentation may lead to misrepresentation. In proposal No 2 in the case, it says: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that teacher education is given a stronger emphasis on knowledge of anti-semitism and holocaust’. Where one can read in the letter of reply from the Council of State to the Committee on this proposal that higher education institutions have the freedom to determine the content of teaching themselves within a defined framework, and therefore cannot be imposed or instructed beyond that, there can also be any consideration. Attitudes may be changed and influence may change them. As national Parliaments and lawmakers, we can contribute to this. Using the law as a form of excuse for not contributing can seem defensive. You have to be careful with too much detail management of educational institutions, but you shouldn't be doing anything because it can hurt someone's self-esteem. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party, either alone or with others, has made in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4090	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4093	The right-hand side shares the views of the proposer on human dignity and the fight against all forms of discrimination. We also share the situation description of finding that there is an increasing degree of anti-Semitic attitudes in some places in our society. Then we see that criminal protection has been strengthened in recent years, but this is not enough. Circuits which express extreme statements of a nature such as to be accompanied by violence or threats of violence must be followed up by the police. We have also recorded that in the period August 2010 to May 2012, the Holocaust Centre has conducted a quantitative survey on the attitude of the Norwegian population towards Jews and other minorities, and that there is a relatively low prevalence of anti-Semitism in both European and Norwegian contexts, but that some performances are on the rise. There are also alarming messages from Norwegian schoolyards, where bullying on this basis has been promoted. So the work to combat bullying has to be done on the broadest possible basis. We have stressed that this must be part of the mission and education that the school has in cooperation with the superiors. In addition, the school shall contribute to the knowledge-based approach to all areas of society in which the quality of society stands and falls with the ability of individuals to think independently, to make informed choices and to make ethically sound choices. Basically, it's a question of what forms of social interaction we find socially acceptable in an enlightened and civilised society. Many of the issues raised by the proposer are formally covered by the school’s curricula and other activities. Equally full, there may be reason to strengthen the humanities in order to develop a stronger awareness of ethical issues. The school should not be so reticent in conveying a greater degree of normative attitudes and in guiding what is right and wrong, on the basis of universal human rights and our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage. In addition, the practical behavior of pupils in everyday life must be based on respect for fellow students and school adults. On the basis of these basic principles, targeted work could reduce both bullying and other unacceptable behaviour in the actual school life. But at least equally important: it will promote lifestyles that are valuable later in life. We have limited faith in regulating detailed state initiatives against different grounds of discrimination in the belief that this can be done exhaustively and once and for all. All bullying and plagiarism are unacceptable, regardless of the performances of the bullies. What we believe, on the other hand, is that responsible school owners can constantly adapt education and other follow-up to the problems that may arise as a result of reckless behavior against fellow students, regardless of their pasturage. Municipalities, the main school owners, must follow developments through surveys and ongoing assessments of the student climate in the schools for which they are responsible, and, together with the school management, put in place measures of a professional, educational or disciplinary nature to combat all forms of harassment and hoarseness. In this context, it is also essential that the school administration of municipalities and the management of each school stay informed about research and studies that provide ongoing knowledge of which groups may be exposed at any time. It is not possible to have a broad approach, as described in what I have been into now, without also treating the Holocaust and the persecution of Jews very profoundly. This is why we have promoted an alternative proposal, which embraces something more and more generally in its wording: ‘All school owners are encouraged to regularly monitor the incidence of unacceptable behaviour against fellow students at the schools for which they are responsible and to develop, together with the schools, measures to make pupils aware of this aspect of education and to make individual students unacceptably responsible for their personal responsibilities.’ When I first visited a synagogue on November 26th this year, and spent the day there, I became very aware that this is too important to leave to one group to remember and keep those dates. It's a responsibility for the whole community, because attacking one minority in reality is an attack on all of us, because in some way we all belong to a minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4122	The representative Michael Tetzschner then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4125	To make the first conclusion, I think Michael Tetzschner has very good reflections and conclusions on this topic. We do not support the proposal on the right, and I believe that the reason for this is in many ways that Tetzschner's seagoing speech. This is a responsibility that already rests with the school owner more generally, and we do not need to directly impose such a special monitoring to address this important issue. In the budget debate that we had in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I see the contribution from the main figure to the Progress Party on the theme asylum and immigration was sad and almost frightening. It was a post in which I see the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen to a large extent showed a fundamental lack of respect for everything that is not ethnic Norwegian, what it might now be, cf. Council of Culture Hadia Tajik's good reflections on that theme yesterday. It is all the more gratifying that the Progress Party today is united with the Christian People's Party on many important proposals, and that the Progress Party today, at Morten Ørsal Johansen, made a very good contribution on how problematic this form of discrimination, harassment and racist expressions to which Jews are subjected. My prayer is, then, that the Advancement Party should take that commitment and the wise considerations about this to apply to all the different peoples, ethnicities, individuals and different cultures that we have in our country. The Progress Party will benefit from this in the long run – I am convinced of that. Another reflection that one does after we had a budget debate in the knowledge committee, on which I was so lucky to be present, is the discussion of what the school should care about and be concerned about. The Christian People's Party Dagrun Eriksen had a very nice article about the knowledge that she thought should shape the school. There was a post that I believe many of us tried to support well upstairs, saying, 'That's exactly what the school is going to be about. We're going to be very good at reading, writing and math, but there are also some other things the school should be very busy about. We can use different terms about that. We're using this slightly artificial concept of formation, which works among us in this room, but which maybe doesn't work so well in society when we talk about it. But that's really what we're talking about here today: the school and other arenas must not least today, in the exciting society we live in, be concerned with the challenges, but they too are enjoying and all the positive things that lie in our living in a society characterized by so much diversity. We must be very attentive to all forms of discrimination, harassment, and that one looks down on others, probably on the basis of a misunderstood form of marine goodness associated with what a seaman has to stand for. The debate we have here today, we should connect more directly to that knowledge debate, because it would make it a little richer. It's been great to hear that High Representative Michael Tetzschner here and now in this debate says it's important to strengthen the humanities. In the previous debate, reading, writing and not least math were the main focus on what the school should be concerned about, because it was basic skills and competences. What we're talking about here is the same basic competence that we need to develop. Then it's about knowledge, and it's in the text that's written here, and the posts that are already held. It is also a matter of setting aside time for that, and we also need to talk about it at school, in order to exercise the competence that makes us all behave more decently towards our fellow people – at school, outside school, and in all other arenas of society. As I sail, I am so active in the Palestinian question, among other things. through Ship to Gaza, I see the special challenge associated with the Middle East conflict. It is easy to see that this can unfortunately become a kind of a mix of it one thinks about what the Israeli regimes are doing for the time being, and what the Israelis stand for and believe. Here we have a special responsibility that is active on the right side of the Palestine conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4146	The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party addresses a topic that it is very important that we as a society take seriously. Jewish hatred is not acceptable and must be controlled. Fighting all forms of discrimination must be fundamental in all democratic countries. The protection of minority rights has been and must remain a central part of our system of governance. European countries, including Norway, have a special responsibility to take care of and protect the Jewish minority, because the Holocaust was just happening here in Europe. It is therefore alarming that Jewish hatred is still a problem here in Norway. Our country is today home to citizens with roots in countless cultures, with many different religions and views of life. It makes Norway a richer society. Knowledge of this diversity must be given a greater place in school. The Central Party wants to focus more on religious and life-seeking dialogue across religions, and that all primary school students should gain more knowledge about religious minorities in Norway, their history, their basic values and their religious practices. We also want to strengthen work against discrimination based on gender, sexual orientation and ethnic or religious background among religious minorities in Norway. The Jews have a historical and long-term relationship with Norway and are therefore considered to be one of Norway’s five national minorities. Through studies conducted by the Holocaust Centre and the Mosaic Religion, we have gained up-to-date knowledge of the spread of Jewish hatred. Nor has it been long since we received shocking examples of concrete threats to Norwegian Jews through the media. There is a clear need for action against negative attitudes towards minorities in general and Jews in particular. It is important that we use the knowledge base we now have in further efforts to combat negative attitudes. I assume that various ministries and other government authorities are putting in place appropriate measures to counter prejudices against minorities in Norway. One of the proposals of the Christian People's Party is that the government is asked to implement targeted measures against the bullying of Jewish students. The centre party believes that the most targeted measures are those designed locally and adapted to the challenges of the local school or local community. The government, the KS, the Education Association, the Trade Union, the Norwegian School Leaders' Association and the National Association of Schools have signed Manifesto against bullying. Through local manifestations of bullying, schools have committed themselves locally to implementing targeted and locally adapted measures against all forms of bullying, regardless of the type of grouping involved. The proposers call for an action plan. I agree that this must be done, but I believe that it does not require a separate action plan. It may easily be that the focus will then be on the plan itself rather than on the work already under way and on the implementation of the plans already in place. I refer in particular to the Action Plan to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination. That plan is now extended and, in my view, is a good basis for strengthening the work against anti-semitism. I also agree with the assessments contained in the letter from the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion to the Committee and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4161	Since the Christian People's Party made proposals for an action plan against Jew hatred for the first time nearly two years ago, there has been a report after report confirming the need for just action. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, recently criticised Norwegian authorities for not doing enough to monitor and combat hate crime, and for not providing the Jewish environment with the necessary support for security measures. I could not agree more. The OSCE's proposals on action against hate crime and security measures for Jewish institutions have been promoted by the Christian People's Party before, and we are thus promoting it again today. Centres for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities have presented a study showing that a whole of five Nordics support the claim ‘the world’s Jews work in secret to promote Jewish interests’. One out of four think it's right that Jews view themselves as better than others. Substantial criticism of the policy of the State of Israel is, of course, justified in a free and democratic society, but when you refer to Jews as such and as such, only on the basis of the fact that they are of Jewish origin, as these claims make, you are left to racism and antisemitism. Almost 40 pst. by the survey respondents, Israel's treatment of the Palestinians is equivalent to Nazi treatment of the Jews during World War II. This is boundless historyless and offensive to the holocausts. Much indicates that more and more people are experiencing Jewish hatred. In a study carried out by the Mosaic Religious Society among its own members, none of those asked believe that the extent of antisemitism has been reduced in the last ten years. Many also say that they have experienced antisemitism at school, and most alarmingly: young people experience this to a greater extent than older people. 3.5 pst. Of the students in Oslo secondary schools, negative events occur at least two to three times a month because of their religious background, the proportion among Jewish children is 33, 3 pst. – ten times as high. These recent studies confirm a Jewish hatred that has unfortunately been known for a while. And there is no mitigating circumstance that Norway is not alone in Jewish hatred, or that the situation is far worse in Muslim countries, on the contrary. Unfortunately, we also see that these are attitudes that some of the immigrants from these countries do not necessarily abandon when they come to Norway. In other words, the need for action against Jew hatred is great, and the school must be the foremost arena to counteract the latent anti-semitism that we see in our country. Only half of the students in Oslo connect Auschwitz and the Holocaust with Jewish persecution. It shows the need for the holocaust day to be a mandatory anniversary marked annually in all schools. The Christian People's Party also proposes to improve school education with compulsory teaching of the Holocaust in relevant disciplines, better learning material and better financial support schemes, so that school classes can have the opportunity to go on a study trip to concentration camps. It's no longer about if or about, Jewish hatred is a reality. It's documented, and now it's time for the government to take this seriously. We see that the Municipality of Oslo actually takes hold of this, and we have the same expectation of the government. I address this proposal that the Christian People's Party is alone in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4183	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4186	There are many kinds of prejudices and many attitudes to groups that can come up and that we notice come up in different debates. It was the debate on the Roma this summer, or the debate on the Sami that has been seen on average elsewhere in the country in the last year. And so it is also very much in the case of Jews. I believe that the good, old, liberal expression of prejudices must also form the basis for how to combat it. You fight prejudice against groups of knowledge. I would like to have the Minister of Education here, because I think that much of the challenge lies in our history subject, how we teach history, how the history skills are with teachers who teach the subject, and how much knowledge young people today actually get about persecuting the group through history. Jews are one of the most persecuted groups. This is so latent, not only by the fact that there are some people who come from cultures where they have almost been trained in it, but this is also true of teachers in Oslo. I've talked to Jewish children who are part of a group of friends in the class where you visit each other. When the group was going to visit a Palestinian family, the school thought it was perfectly right that the Jewish student was not invited, because one had to expect that a Palestinian family could not invite a Jewish child. No, you can't expect that. Teachers who forefect something like that, and a school that seems to be okay -- we can't actually have it. Or, for example, The Jewish Museum, which experienced that during the previous bombing of Gaza, schools cancelled visits to the Jewish Museum because it felt wrong to visit a Jewish museum while Gaza was being bombed. It says something about attitudes – not in kids. It says something about attitudes — not in the immigrant population. These are Norwegian schoolteachers who think it's okay not to learn about Jewish culture when the bombs fall over Gaza. We wouldn't have done that to others. These are things that have to be taken very seriously. This is a very fundamental problem in our society. It's not just linked to Jews. You just have to poke a little in the Norwegian mentality before you find the exact same thing when it comes to e.g.: the roman. When we look at countries like Hungary, which now builds up a lot of nationalism around these very groups, we see that the Roma and Jews are very close in the context of how nationalism builds up its hatred for them. These are prejudices that we must fight all the time. We do it with knowledge, and we do it by seeing individuals instead of seeing groups. We're not just doing it with religious dialogue, because this isn't about religious dialogue. This is about hatred against cultural groups. It can be based on both ethnicity and religion. The left will support the Right proposal in the matter. We may find some of the others very specific – many of them fit well in a local government, but not in Stortinget. I believe that we have a great job to do, and I hope that the Minister of Discrimination, in this case, will take this with him to the Minister of Education, because she is the one who has the best means of getting this fight down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4205	Let me start by giving commendation to the previous speaker, Skei Grande, but also to the others who have been on the platform here. I think that has been said very wisely. Since school is mentioned a lot, I want to start by telling you what's going to happen from the Ministry of Knowledge. That's not the department I run, but it's central to the work that they're doing right now – among other things. Based on the knowledge we have gained about the situation in Norwegian school, they are developing a comprehensive approach to the school’s work against antisemitism and racism. The HL Centre, the European Wergeland Centre and the Institute for Teacher Education and School Research at the University of Oslo have developed, on behalf of the Education Directorate, a three-year training offer for teachers, school leaders and pupils at the youth level, precisely to prevent anti-semitism, racism and undemocratic attitudes. The training offer is called Democratic Preparedness for Racism, Anti-Semitism and Undemocratic Attitudes in School – DEMBRA. It will start in January 2013, and it will be exciting to follow. I agree with the representative from Skei Grande that a readiness to do so must be built up, among other things. through knowledge of individuals. This is not just about religious dialogue, but it is also about discrimination and about attitudes towards others. I look with great concern at the reports on antisemitism or Jewish hatred I have received, and I can assure you that we are taking it very seriously. We must all take responsibility by taking an active stand against these positions, whether it be prejudice or discrimination or purely anti-Semitic attitudes. It is imperative for me to say that no minorities should live in fear in this country. Two different reports on Norwegian Jews were submitted in 2012. It is the report Anti-Semitism in Norway, prepared by the Centre for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities. The study shows that around 12 pst. of the population of Norway has negative attitudes towards Jews. The study also shows negative views on other minority groups in Norway, including the United Kingdom. to Muslims and rooms. The report of the Mosaic Religion, Continued Active Jewish Life in Norway, is based on a survey of their members and interviews with Jewish children and young people. The report shows that about half of the members have experienced anti-Semitic attitudes in school and educational situations, in job contexts and in other arenas. 20 out of 21 children and young people interviewed reported that they had been subjected to anti-Jewish harassment — both single events and harassment over the years. This is a terrible situation. Then, as has been said, the OSCE has also recently warned against anti-Jewish attitudes in Norway, and among other things. points out that anti-Israeli attitudes can evolve into some form of anti-Semitism. I even had a meeting with this delegation, and it was an interesting meeting. We are now going through the recommendations they make, and have them in mind when we are now considering how to follow up the last year of the Action Plan to promote equality and prevent discrimination. I would like to stress that the HL study shows that those who have the strongest anti-Semitism attitudes are also most reprehensible to other people with non-Norwegian ethnicity or culture. 76 pst. by those who show so-called social distance to Jews, also reject Muslims. Furthermore, NOVA’s knowledge status shows that children and young people living and living in Norway experience ethnic discrimination. All this knowledge suggests that anti-Semitism and other forms of discrimination because of ethnicity or religion, often at the same time. It is important to tackle discrimination as a whole, in order to widen the scope of the measures taken. I have said in the past that the issue of a separate action plan against Jew hatred must be seen in the context of the existing action plan to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination. Ethnic discrimination is used in the existing action plan as an integral part of the discrimination experienced by immigrants and their children, Sami and national minorities in particular. ethnicity, national origin, descent, skin colour, language, religion and outlook on life. We should be aware that the situation of the Jews is special in the light of the pogroms, with holocaust as the very bestial. The persecution of Jews is a black chapter in Norwegian history, and we have a special responsibility. The knowledge we have acquired shows that there is a need for specific measures against Jew hatred. I believe that antisemitism should be a central theme of the government's further work against discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4229	I am pleased with the last Council of State said that antisemitism will be an important part of the government's work in the future. I hope so, and that we focus on it. The letter to the Committee of State Councils states that the holocaust marking on 27 January has already been implemented in the teaching of some schools. At the same time, it says that the Ministry of Knowledge will not impose this on the school as a compulsory scheme. I assume, of course, that the Council of State agrees with the Ministry of Knowledge, but I want to hear the reasons of the Council of State that we should not impose this on the school as a compulsory scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4236	This isn't my table. This is the table of the Ministry of Knowledge and the Minister of Knowledge. We've got their views, and that's the point of view I'm passing on. When, for example, develop action plans, or in our work on the part of the BLD as a driving force for non-discrimination and gender equality, we work against the different departments and ask for their views on matters for which they have a constitutional responsibility. The Ministry of Knowledge gives reasons for its view that many schools have already integrated this day as a special day, and detention is generally imposed on schools by specific markers or ways of working — cf. the debate that has taken place earlier today on the Ministry of Knowledge budget. That's just the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4241	The safety and cooperation organisation in Europe has recently criticised the Norwegian authorities for not doing enough to monitor and combat hate crime and not to provide necessary support for safety measures to the Jewish communities in Norway. My question is, has this criticism made an impression on the government? If this criticism has made an impression on the government, what kind of action can we expect the government to take on the initiative to counter anti-Semitism and Jewish hatred in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4248	It's clear that it's made an impression. The knowledge we have gained, including: as it has contributed to the funding of the report that has been prepared to look at the status of anti-semitism and racism in Norway, has made an impression and has led us to take a number of measures already in place and to take new measures. As I said in my post, I would like to consider new measures on the basis of the OSCE delegation's report. I had, as I said, met with this delegation. It was a very constructive meeting. We are aware that we are not doing enough to combat discrimination in our country. It's a lot different, but we all have to take responsibility for protecting minorities and people who are discriminated against. We must have effective protection against discrimination. I am now going through the laws we have against discrimination and for equality, and I am aiming to improve the protection of discrimination in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4257	The Council of State referred to the action plan against ethnic discrimination. The first plan you had about it, related to what we are discussing here, was that it was mentioned in an attachment to the plan itself. Now, when you don't want to create your own action plan against antisemitism, I hope that at least you spend a little more time and effort in this area than you've done in the past. In 2005, the UN decided that 27 January should be an International Day of Memory for the Victims of Nazi Extinction Camps. It was as well known on the day Auschwitz was liberated. Does the Council of State think it would strengthen the fight against antisemitism or weaken it if we also marked it in all schools in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4264	I think it's a strength if the schools mark that day, January 27th – that's also the day Benjamin Hermansen was killed – and I want to encourage the schools to do that. I would also encourage the schools to visit the Holocaust Center. After Christmas I will visit there on my third visit after I joined in March. I'm going there with the knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen, and the plan is that we should be there at the same time as school classes to see what is really the level of knowledge among Norwegian students. My soul was delighted to travel to Auschwitz with Socialistic Youth in its time. It was so strong that I'll never forget it. It would have been the very best, of course, if everyone could go there, but I am very concerned that the schools have to see their social mandate in building a protection in Norwegian school students against attitudes that can in the utmost consequence make people willing to commit abuses against others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4271	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4277	This is a serious and growing problem for the proposers. I want to start by quoting two teachers in Oslo School, who were interviewed recently by the NRK. One said it like this: ‘It is a notorious hanging of Jews. Everything from jokes to killing threats. “Jews shall be killed if they come to school,” is the student who says. To praise Hitler for what he did is a repeater at my school." Another used these words: «More students mock when I talk about Holocaust. A boy stood up and commanded me to stop and talk about Jews and Holocaust. [[...]] I find it shocking that it is possible to grow up here with such attitudes." In Norway in 2012, ‘Jews’ are used as shell words in many Norwegian school farms. The Jewry is well documented, among others. through a study carried out in Oslo School last year. One of three Jewish children experienced negative events within one month. In a demonstration in Oslo against Israel’s attack on Gaza in 2010, it was shouted ‘Death of the Jews’. Recently, the NRK showed a documentary about a Jewish family from Malmo, who fled from the progrogs in Eastern Europe to safety in Sweden in 1890. Now the family from Sweden flees for fear of their own security. We must not allow the fight against hatred and extremism to become a competition for who is the most for one or the other minority group. It is not okay that the representative Bekkevold suggests from this pulpit that the parties of government do not take Jewish hatred seriously. All people are entitled to protection against heat and discrimination. Raising Sami, Roma, Muslims, homosexuals or others is no less serious, but the Jewish population in Norway is in a special position. On 26 November it was 70 years since ‘Donau’ took 532 Norwegian Jews to the camp of extermination. Half of the Jews who lived in Norway before World War II were killed. In Denmark, the figure was under 1 pst. Why was there so much worse here? Judaism and intolerance in Norwegian schools must be combated in education and through measures against bullying. Attitudes among adults must be controlled, inter alia: through preventive action against all forms of extremism. Hat crime must be taken seriously, because hate crime is an attack on the right to be and to think differently and as seen, attacks on the fundamentals of democracy and – as the representative Tetzschner pointed out – an attack on all of us. In the face of hatred and extremism, there is one strategy that is not an alternative: indifference.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4309	Samuel Steinmann has seen more suffering and more corpses than a human can bear. His eyes are still crying. Sammy Steinmann survived the concentration camps, but can never forget. On the left arm he has the number that will forever remind him of the years of captivity: 79 231 – numbers he got because he was a Jew. Steinmann saw friends, relatives, and unknowns being killed. Big brother Harry was one of them. He himself was also to be killed, but clung to the will of life: "I would survive. I had to tell the world about what we were experiencing. It is my duty to those who died," says Samuel Steinmann. Samuel Steinmann tells throughout his history the story of the deportation of Jews from Norway to Germany during World War II. 70 years ago, November 26, 1942, 767 Jews were transported with the "M/S Danube" to be located in Auschwitz. The Holocaust didn't start with the gas chambers in Auschwitz. It started a lot earlier, as a fear of strangers and as a prejudice – also in our own country. Our constitution of which we are otherwise so proud, of 1814 – which we celebrate every 17 May – had a paragraph that excluded Jews from the kingdom. The scepticism of Jews before World War II was not only a strange or Nazi phenomenon, or an idea that Hitler had alone, but it was also widespread in large parts of Norwegian society. The Jews were ridiculed and suspected by cartoons and newspaper articles, and many were feeding a general distrust of Jews in Norway. One would think that the crazy story of what happened to the Jews during the war would be a guarantee against that happening again. Unfortunately, it's not like that. As many have been the subject of this debate: it is revealed that we are also facing some of the same positions today that led to what happened in Auschwitz being happening in the middle of Europe. This is a development that we have to take on the deepest seriousness. History has shown us that the struggle for human dignity, against racism and antisemitism must be waged all the time. If we don't have a conscious relationship with this, it can happen again. I believe that we would have served to mark our own history – compulsory in schools – because our history is not only the story that happened in Europe, but we, as the Nordics, also have a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4330	I actually want to give praise to the Council of State. I think both the posts and the replies in the reply chord show a state council engaged in this rather challenging case for Norwegian society, and she has expressed considerable willingness to follow up in different ways. The Council of States should know this: there are many who are going to value, not least Norwegian Jews, which are a small national minority – perhaps we are talking about 1,500 to 2 500 people throughout this country. It is people who – if we listen to what the head of the Mosaic religious community has said – choose to hide their identity more than before because of the reactions you encounter in Norway in 2012 when you say or show that you are Jewish. Since the last round, we have received several reports relating to the same subject, not just substantiate, but reinforce the need for all of us to take anti-semitism seriously. We probably have – to this extent – positions in our own country, but it is quite significant that there is now a signature campaign among European parliamentarians because a party in the Hungarian National Assembly has put forward proposals to register the country's Jews. It's quite eye-catching in 2012. The representative Aksel Hagen was within what often becomes a very challenging debate related to the country of Israel, the Israeli government and Jews as a minority, who often have a different nationality than the Israeli. There might be reason to remind you that 20 pst. by the Israelis are indeed Arabs. We have a job to do. It is quite strong when a former Prime Minister – I must say – says that peace in the Middle East can stop anti-semitism throughout the world. It shows – for me – a fundamental misunderstanding of what antisemitism is. If we don't have the power to get the historical context into this debate, I don't think we're going to be able to do anything about the phenomenon of antisemitism. I wish the Council of State and the government every success in their work. Of course, we'll follow up. We don't get a majority for our proposals, but just as fully: I'm grateful for the contribution made by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4345	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4359	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4374	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4388	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4402	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4416	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4430	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4444	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4458	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4472	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4486	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4500	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4514	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4529	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4543	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4549	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4556	A total of 36 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 8-11, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2, 3 and 12-14, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 4, 5 and 15-32, by Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 6, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 7, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 33-36, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 33–36 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35 and 36, from the left Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a communication to the Storting on the same situation and living conditions.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with concrete escalation plans related to an investment programme for library premises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4600	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case of other and more time-consuming ways of financing a public broadcaster than today’s licence.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4618	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a concrete escalation plan related to infrastructure and collection management at Norwegian museums.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4636	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the one-off benefit based on the proposal of the Equality Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4652	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to help carry out research on Norwegian adoption history in the post-war period.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4670	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 5, and 15-32, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before it to establish an independent supervision of kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to file a case for the winding-up of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and for the amendment of the Equality Act so that other bodies, including the courts and the Labour Inspectorate, are given the task of enforcing the key provisions of the Act.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish a grant scheme for voluntary activities, the aim of which is to stimulate activities for children and young people’. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to bring forward alternative forms of future operations for national cultural institutions, with a view to further improving their access to the public, market alignment, efficiency, etc.’.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide figures on the total costs of refurbishment and maintenance of our national cultural institutions.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a binding maintenance plan to national cultural institutions.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the scheme of state grants in the field of art.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the scheme of scholarships to artists.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The government is asked not to replace guarantee income with new grant schemes.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to use more than before the art already in its possession to decorate public buildings.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the assessment of alternative future operating modes for the Norwegian Opera & Ballet, with a view to reducing the public contribution.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The budget requires the Government of the revised national budget for 2013 to submit a financing plan for new stagerigg at the Rogaland Theatre.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The government is asking the government to contribute to the establishment of a modern north-eastern museum in the centre of Tromsø.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit a case to phase out the press support.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government of the next year’s government budget to submit proposals on normal business collection procedures for the NRK licence.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination and phasing-out of the television licence system.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the fragmentation and sale of the NRK in such a way as to achieve effective competition and achieve cultural policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the NRK pays dancers, etc. under current collective bargaining agreements also where the NRK uses external production companies.’;» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to the failure of the NRK to establish a national road traffic information portal.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to allow foreign and other gambling companies to establish themselves in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4784	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 12, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a new parental leave scheme that equates the rights of mother and father and guarantees the right of each family to determine the distribution of the leave.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in an appropriate way, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2013, to come back to the Stortinget with a case on how the Arctic Race of Norway bike ride can be realised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4805	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 13 and 14, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking to come back with a case for recruiting pre-school teachers to kindergartens, as is the GNIST initiative for teachers.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to change the upper age limit within kickboxing in line with the sport’s own wishes.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the VAT on digital material used in libraries.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e4833	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 8-11, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make it possible for municipalities to take full responsibility for the protection of children’s rights’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in the context of the 2013 revised national budget with a report on the government’s work to facilitate interaction between the voluntary sector and the public sector. The report shall summarise the measures taken, together with assessments and proposals for new measures.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to contribute to the establishment of a special financing system for transfers of performing arts and music productions to cinemas, large screens and other digital media.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a competence reform through a competence development programme for the library sector. The commitment to a competence development programme shall be clarified by means of an obligatory escalation plan.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine how best to ensure the revenue from the film cultural activities currently under Film and Cinema and, at the latest, in the context of the revised national budget, to provide proposals to finance these activities in the short and longer term.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e6300	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e8012	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e8027	The President will draw attention to the fact that, by incurrence, the income chapter is 3856, the Child Protection Centre for Single Minor Asylum Seekers, item 04 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, fell out of the suspension. It will be enriched.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e9093	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the revaluation of income for low-income households to receive child benefits higher than for high-income households.’ The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e9123	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 7, by Tord Lien, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposals No. 8 and 9, by Mr Tord Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 10, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 11, from Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the development of a national strategy for a comprehensive and flexible adult learning policy at all levels of education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e9157	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with its own case to extend the study aid to 11 months from the autumn of 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e9173	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the UK Government to file a case for strengthening the right of parents to choose school for their children through free choice of school at primary school.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the funding of state universities and universities in general and, in the context of the State budget for 2014, to submit proposals on how research and education results as well as strategic assessments and policy priorities can replace ‘historical appropriations’ as a parameter for the financing of the UH sector.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e9194	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess changes in the student support system of private institutions so that part of the additional loan for tuition fees can be converted into scholarships if the examination is passed within a normal time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e9210	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to the Stortinget on how to ensure that all students and their supervisors have access to the digital learning platforms used by the schools.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government, in consultation with the institutions, is asked to find a reasonable framework for grants to private universities for the establishment of new places of study and grants for infrastructure in private colleges.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to refrain from requiring the sale of student housing in Narvik, among others. to facilitate more engineering students as part of the Northern Area Initiative.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the legislation so that net capital income is included in the income calculation that forms the basis for study support.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, to assess in detail whether the grant is per. square metres for private church buildings take sufficient account of the increase in construction costs in recent years.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a comprehensive plan for State measures to ensure the fire and burglary of peaceful and protective churches in the context of the 2013 revised national budget. The plan should describe the main challenges in the field, review existing legislation and contain proposals for appropriate State action.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e12302	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e13373	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 8, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider proposing changes to the penal code in order to ensure stronger responses to hate crime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e13401	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks everyone to regularly monitor the occurrence of unacceptable behaviour against students at the schools for which they are responsible, and to develop, together with the schools, measures to make students aware of this part of the teaching, and to place unacceptably individual students at personal responsibility.’ The left has warned that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e13419	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Holocaust Day becomes a mandatory anniversary marked annually in all schools.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that teacher education is given a stronger emphasis on knowledge of anti-semitism and holocaust’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better education at school with a view to preventing Jewish hatred, including compulsory teaching of the Holocaust in relevant disciplines, better learning material and proposing better financial support schemes to allow all classes to go on a study trip to previous concentration camps.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for targeted measures to be taken against the bullying of Jewish students in school.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals that meet the desire of the Mosaic Religious Society for ongoing support for security expenditure and for continuous vigilance by the Jewish institutions in Norway.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better continuous monitoring of anti-Jewish websites and extreme environments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e13475	Case No. 10–23 are the second reading of legislative acts dealt with in the Grand Duchy’s meetings of 4th, 5th and 10th December. The President makes it clear that Law Decision 22 is the pressure of a rich edition. There are no comments. The Bill 18 to 31 of the Grand Duchy is therefore approved at the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-13.ana.ud80e13491	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one has done that, and the meeting has been cancelled.
